{"name":"A Key To Physic And The Occult Sciences 3619","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1821__sibly___a_key_to_physic_and_the_occult_sciences.pdf","mytitle":"A Key To Physic And The Occult Sciences","mylang":"de"}
A
KEY TO PHYSIC
AND THE
OCCULT SCIENCES.
#
OPENING TO MENTAL VIEW,
TheSYSTEMandORDERoftheInteriorand Exterior HEAVENS
;
The ANALOGY betwixt ANGELS and the SPIRITS of MEN;
AND THE
SYMPATHY between CELESTIAL and TERRESTRIAL BODIES.
FROM WHENCE IS DEDUCED,
An obvious Difcrimination of Future Events, in the Motions and Pofitions of the Luminaries,
Planets, and Stars ; the Univerfal Spirit and Economy of Nature in the Produdlion of all
Things; the Principles of ethereal and atmofperical Influx, in conftituting the proper Recipi-
ent of Life; the active and paffive Tindlures requilite in the Generation of Men and Brutes;
the Properties of V egetable. Mineral, and ANIMAL MAGNETISM; the fundamental Caufes
and Qualities, vifible or occult, of all DISEASES, both of Mind and Body; and the Ample
Modes prefcribed by Nature for their Prevention and Cure.
TO WHICH ARE ADDED,
LUNAR TABLES, calculated from Sidereal Motion; exhibiting, upon the moft Ample yet unerring
Conftnu£tion, the actual Moment of the Crisis of every Disease, and the confequent Termination
thereof, whether for LIFE or DEATH.
THE WHOLE FORMING
An interefting Supplement to CULPEPER’S FAMILY PHYSICIAN, and Difplay of the OCCULT
SCIENCES. Publithed for the good of all who fearch after Truth and Wifdom ;
to preferve all the
Bleflings of Health and Life ;
and to give to all the Knowledge of ftimitive Phyfic, and the Art of Healing.
By E. SIBLY, M.D. F.R.H.S.
j
The SIXTH EDITION. Illuftrated with elegant COPPER PLATES-
L O ND O N:
Printed hy W. Lems, Finch Lane, Cornhill ;
FOR G. JONES, (LATE WILKES,) N“ 17, AYE-MARIA LANE, St. PAUL’S.
182 L
/I
a/u/'^/?e Ora^/tr >
/
OF
PH“'S!C!ANS
OF
\
vn
(fl
ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS
LIBRARY
CLASS bW *
SB
ACCN. fzoi^z.
SOURCE Of , lilff
DATE <?7. ^
i‘
DEDICATION,
TO THE NUMEROUS
SUBSCRIBERS to my FORMER WORKS.
rjlHE Liberality, Attention, 'and Confidence, I
have received from YOU, demand the ear-
liest fulfilment of my Promise, in publishing the
following Sheets. Not conscious of having de-
viated from the line of REASON or TRUTH,
not challenged by Critics, nor accused by the
Faculty, of leading you astray, I feel more than
common Gratification in submitting myself once
more to your Patronage ; and no longer than I
can render myself useful to SOCIETY, and
worthy of YOUR Protection, do I wish to retain
the Power of subscribing myself
Your much-honoured Brother,
Friend, and Servant,
^
No. 1
,
Upper Titchfield~ftreet^
Cavendijh Square. E. SIBLY.
r }
'
ri'
K,'® ' I
•
vr.
‘it.J
ir
J
\
>
A
KEY TO PHYSIC
AND THE
OCCULT SCIENCES.
WISDOM is the Light of Reafon, and the Bond of Peace. It affimilates
Man to God, and elevates his mind above unworthy purfuits. It is the
principal excellence which diftinguifhes him from brutes, and the chief
ornament that dignifies his character. Whatever is found in Wifdom’s laws .
defies the mouldering hand of Time, and ranks with immortality. Hence it is
that a third; after knowledge is natural to man; and, if the cares and follies of this
world could be eftranged from his concerns, his defire of information would be
infeparable from his exiftence. Ignorance and Superftition may be confidered
as the curfe of God, which chains its votaries to unworthy objects ;
whilft, on the
contrary, Wifdom and Underftanding provide us with wings, whereby to foar above
the earth ;
to contemplate the works of creation ;
to difcern the myfteries of divi-
nity, and converfe with angels.
The beautiful defcription given by Solomon of his acquirements in wifdom, is
highly deferving the attention of all men ;
but particularly of thofe who profefs
the fcience of phyfic, and the cure of fouls. Iprayed^ fays Solomon, and under-
Jlanding was given me; I called upon God, and the spirit of wifdom came to-me.
All good things came xvith her, and innumerable riches in her hand. Wifd. vii. 7, II.
What greater reward could any one defire? And though the intelle6iual faculties
of all men are not alike ftrong and apt for occult fpeculations ;
yet it is manifeft
No. 1. B that
2 A KEY TO PHYSIC
that a1t perfons are capable of deriving great improvement from reading; and,
that it is not fo much the want of natural ability, as of induftry and application,
that fo many men difgrace the image of the Deity, and degrade the venerable pro-
feffions of Divinity, Phyfic, and Law.
It rarely happens that the w'ant of intelledt, or natural endowments of the mind,
are the rocks on which men fplit in their profeffional charader. Indocile and
unapt indeed muft that man be, Avhom education, experience, obfervation, read-
ing, or enquiry, will not fet generally right in his progrefs through life. Yet,
without induftry, and an anxious defire of knowledge and improvement, neither
education, nor all the advantages of natural ability, can fave us from the wreck of
error, or the difgrace of ignorance. Obftinate men, though of the firft capacity in
the world, are a forlorn hope, and often irrecoverably loft, by unadvifedly pur-
fuing the phantom of their own brain ;
whilft others, enriched by dignity of fenfe,
and qualified by depth of underftanding to form the brighteft charadlers amongft
fociety, furrender up their talents for difcernment and enquiry, and content them-
felves with taking upon truft whatever they fee or hear; particularly in the prac-
tice of phyfic, in the law, and in the church. The mifchiefs attendant on this ge-
neral conduct of mankind, are great and many; for by thus implicitly fubfcribing
to the vague notions, and falfe dodtrines, of others ;
by ftiutting their eyes againft
the light of reafon and enquiry, and refufing to receive the convidlion of their own
fenfes, they transfer error from one generation to another, until the unlettered
multitude, dazzled by the fplendid ignorance of the learned few, become difciples
to their miftakes, and make error and enthufiafm an hereditary difeafe.
Hence, then, we fee the necefiity of confultirig our own reafon, and employing
our owm underftanding, in the difcrimination of all our temporal and eternal af-
fairs; and of adling and judging for ourfelves on all occaiions which immediately
regard our health, our happinefs, or our life ;
and under all thofe affli6Iions and
misfortunes wherewith we ftruggle in this world, in our jtafiTage to a better; to one
more glorious and permanent ;
the ultimate end and reward of all our labours !
Our fenfes, on thefe occafions, are ever ready to fupport our endeavours, and per-
form their office ;
and it is unqueftionably the duty of all men to exercife, to im-
prove, and employ them. Yet it is aftonifliing in general to fee how diftruftful
we are of thofe very faculties Nature has given us for our guide, and how fondly
we fubmit to the opinions of others, whofe nerves cannot feel for us, and whofe
judgment is often founded upon erroneous principles, and fometimes on no princi-
ples at all. This, however, is a condudt by no means fitted to the dignity and office
aftigned to man; who, being placed at the head of all God’s works upon earth,
walking
o
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 3
walking in his image, and exercifing dominion over his creatures, is bound to im-
prove that intelledl of reafon and underftanding, whereby he is to govern and di-
re6l them, according to the didlates of truth, of juftice, and of mercy. For this
purpofe he ought, like Solomon, to ftiidy the occult properties and qualities of all
things: “from the cedar-tree that is in Lebanon, even unto the hyffop that fpring-
eth out of the w'all with w hatever relates to a proper knowledge of himfelf, “ and
of beafts, and of fowl?, and of creeping things, and of fidies”—not to worfliip the
fun, nor the moon, nor the ftars, nor any of the hofl of heaven; but to confider, to
admire, and to inveftigate their charadlers, fixed by the hand of God for figns and
for feafons, and for days and years. They, in fadt, contain no more than what
every man ought to be acquainted w ith, to the beft of his abilities ;
becaufe they
lead to a comprehenfive idea of thofe occultcaufes andeffedts, w'hich adl the moft,
though they are the leaft feen ;
and whereby the human underftanding is enlight-
ened and improved, and' the mind enriched with thofe divine precepts, which lead
to a manifeftation of that FIRST and Omnipotent CAUSE to whofe power all
fecond caufes are fubfervient, and operate but as the agents of his Will ;
and under
whofe providerit care and fufferance we fee, feel, move, fpeak, and have our being
!
The ten thoufand bleftings w'hich refult from this ftudy, are found in our enquiries
after truth, and the myfteries which furround us ;
of the aftonifliing fympathy
and antipathy betwixt heavenly and earthly fubftances : of the wonderful harmony
and conftrudtion of the celeftial bodies ;
of the nature and qualities of our ow’n
exiftence, and the propagation of our fpecies; of the occult properties implanted in
all created beings ;
and the end for which they are and w'ere created !
To fuch enquiries all men are alike competent, and may boaft the fame preten-
fions, unlefs obftinacy or indolence be fubftituted to prevent them. There is certainly
implanted in the human mind, a power which perceives truth, and commands
belief, in all the occult properties of nature, not by the. force of argument, nor learn-
ing, nor fcience; but by an inftantaneous, inftindlive, and irrefiftible, impulfe, de-
rived neither from education nor from habit, but from the peculiar gift of Provi-
dence, adling independently of our will, whenever thefe objedls are prefented, bearr
ing evidence of their reality, even wdien the pride of our external deportment, and
our very words, a£fe6l to deny them.. This is an intelledlual fenfation, w'hich, I
will venture to affirm, is felt more or lefs by all mankind ;
and I know the hearts of
all my readers, if not their tongues, will admit the fadl. It is therefore evident that
tlie humble cottager, the claffical curate, the regular phyfician, and the village doc-
tor, ftand on the fame level in this refpedl. The ftudy of Nature’s laws, of the oc-
c.ult properties in medicine, and in the frame and temperature, of our bodies, is no
,
lef?
4 A KEY TO PHYSIC
lefs fimple, than important to our welfare ;
and without knowing thefe, we know
nothing that can place us beyond the fagacity of the brute creation. We can nei-
ther forefee danger nor fliun it when it is near—we are fubjedt to mifguided treat’*
ment, and miftake, in our medical applications, and advice—we receive intuitive
figns and tokens of misfortune or advantage, without knowing how to benefit by
the admonition.—In fliort, without this ftudy, our enquiries are vain—our percep-
tions are clouded—our views limited, and all our purfuitsare vanity, vexation, and
difappointment. The weaknefs of our reafon, and the avocations arifing from the
infirmities and neceffities of our fituations, require the mofl; powerful inftru6lions,
and the cleareft perceptions of heavenly and earthly things, for the prefervation of
our fouls and bodies, and for the illumination of our minds; advantages that can
in no wife be more completely obtained than by an intimate acquaintance with the
Occult Sciences ;
or, in other words, by a contemplation
OF GOD.
THOUGH God has given us no innate ideas of himfelf, yet, having furniflied us
with thofe faculties our minds are endowed with, he hath not left himfelf without
a witnefs ;
fince we have fenfe, perception, and reafon, and cannot want a clear
proof of him, as long as we carry any thought of ourfelves about us. To Ihow,
therefore, that we are capable of knowing, that is, being certain, that there is a
God ;
and how we may come by this certainty, I think we need go no farther than
ourfelves, and that undoubted knowledge we have of our own exiftence. I think
it is beyond queftion, that man has a clear perception of his own being : he knows
certainly that he exifls, and that he is fomething. In the next place, man knows,
by an intuitive certainty, that bare nothing can no more produce any real being,
than it can be equal to two right angles. If, therefore, we know there is fome real
being, it is an evident demonftration, that from eternity there has been fomething ;
fince what was not from eternity had a beginning ;
and what had a beginning muft
be produced by fomething elfe. Next it is evident, that what has its being from
another muft alfo have all that which is in and belongs to its being from another
too ;
all the powers it has muft be owing to, and received from, the fame fource.
This eternal fource of all being, muft be alfo the fource and original of all power;
and fo this eternal being muft be alfo the moft powerful.
Again, man finds in himfelf perception and knowledge : we are certain then that
there is not only fome being, but fome knowing intelligent being, in the world.
There was a time when there was no knowing being, or elfe there has been a know-
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 3
ing being from eternity. If it be faid, there was a time when that eternal being
had no knowledge ;
I reply, that then it is impoffible there Ihould have ever been
any knowledge; it being as impoffible that things wholly void of knowledge, and
operating blindly, and without any perception, fhould produce a knowing being,
as it is impoffible that a triangle fliould make itfelf three angles bigger than two
right ones. Thus, from the confideration of ourfelves, and what we infallibly find
in our own conftitutions, our reafon leads us to the knowledge of this certain and
evident truth, that there is an eternal, mofl powerful, and knowing, being, which
whether any one will call Gop, it matters not. The thing is evident; and from
this idea, duly eonfidered, will eafily be deduced all thofe other attributes we ought
to afcribe to this eternal Being.
From what has been faid, it is plain that we have a more certain knowledge of
the exiftence of a God than of any thing our fenfes have not immediately difcovered
to us. Nay, I prefume I may fay, that we more certainly know that there is a
God than that there is any thing elfe without us. When I fay, we know, I mean,
there is fuch a knowledge within our reach, which we cannot mifs^ if we will but
apply our minds to that, as we do to other enquiries^
It being then unavoidable for all rational creatures to conclude, that fomething
has exifted from eternity, let us next fee what kind of thing that muft be. There
are but two forts of beings in the world, that man knows or conceives : fgch as are
purely material without fenfe or perception ;
and fenfible perceiving beings, fuch
as we find ourfelves to be. Thefe two forts we fliall call cogitative and incogitative
beings; which, to our prelent purpofe,. are better than material and immateriali
If then there mull be fomething eternal, it is very obvious to reafon, that it mull
necelfarily be a cogitative being; becaufe it is as Impoffible to conceive that bare
incogitative matter Ihould ever produce a thinking intelligent being, as that nothing
of itlielf Ihould produce matter. Let us fuppofe any parcel of matter eternal, vve
lhall find it in itfelf unable to produce any thing. Let us fuppofe its parts firmly
at reft together ;, if there were no other being in the world, muft it not eternally re-
main fo, a dead una^live lump? is it poffible to conceive that itcan add motion to
itfelf or produce any thing? Matter then, by its own ftrengtb, cannot produce in
itfelf fo much as motion. The motion it has, mull alfo be from eternity, or elfe
added to matter by feme other being, more powerful than matter. But let us fupr
pofe motion eternal too ;
yet matter, incogitative matter, and motion, could never
produce thought. Knowledge will ftill be as far beyond the power of nothing to
produce. Divide matter into as minute parts as you, will, vary its figure and
motion as much . as you pleafe, it will operate no otherwife upon other bodies
No. L. C of
6 A KEY TO PHYSIC
of proportionable bulk than it did before this divilion. The minuteft particles of
matter, knock, repel, and refill, one another, juft as the greater do ; and that is all
they can do ; fo that, if we fuppofe nothing eternal, matter can never begin to be :
if we fuppofe bare matter without motion eternal, motion can never begin to be: if
we fuppofe only matter and motion eternal, thought can never begin to be : for it
4s impoftible to conceive, that matter, either with or without motion, could have
originally, in and from itfelf, fenfe, perception, and knowledge ;
as is evident from
hence, that then fenfe, perception, and knowledge, muft be a property eternally
infeparable from matter, and every particle of it. Since, therefore, whatfoever is
the firft eternal being, muft neceflarily be cogitative ;
and whatfoever is firft of all
things, muft neceflarily contain in it, and adually have, at leaft all the perfedlions
that can ever after exift ;
it neceflarily follows, that the firft eternal being cannot
be matter. If, therefore, it be evident, that fomething muft neceflarily exift from
eternity, it is alfo as evident, that that fomething muft be a cogitative being. For
it is as impoftible that incogitative matter fliould produce a cogitative being, as that
nothing, or the negation of all being, fliould produce a pofitive being, or matter.
This difcovery of the neceflary exiftence of an eternal mind fufficiently leads us
to the knowledge of God; for it will hence follow, that all other knowing beings
that have a beginning, muft depend on him, and have no other ways of knowledge
or extent of power, than what he gives them ;
and therefore, if he made thofe, he
made alfo the lefs-excellent pieces of this univerfe, all inanimate bodies, whereby
his omnifcience, power, and providence, w'ill be eftabliflied ;
and from thence all
his other attributes neceflarily follow.
Thus, a manifeftation of the Deity is vifible in all his works. There is not the
fmalleft part of that immenfe fpace our eyes behold, or our imaginations conceive,
that is not filled with His prefence. The worlds which revolve with fo much order,
beauty, and harmony, through the immenfity of fpace, the fun, moon, ftars, and
planets, are upheld by the light of his countenance ;
but for which they would drop
from their orbs, and, plunged into the vaft abyfs, w'ould return to their primitive
chaos. To the mercy of God we owe all the bleflings of this life, as the reward of
good and virtuous a6lions. To his anger, we Juftly attribute all violent concuflions
of the elements, famine, plague, peftilence, &c. brought on a wicked and aban-
doned people, like the ftorm of fire and brimftone on Sodom and Gomorrah, The
vengeance of the Deity cannot be more awfully defcribed, than by David in his
Pfalms; which fliould a6t as a timely warning to thofe atheifts and unbelievers, and
to thofe wicked, idolatrous, and polluted, countries, againft whofe deteftable crimes
thefe terrible fcourges have been fo often fent. The fliaking of the earth; the
trembling
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 7
trembling of the hills and mountains ;
the flames of devouring fire darting through
the firmament ;
the heavens bending down with forked thunderbolts ;
their riding
on the clouds, and flying on the wings of a whirlwind, the burfting of the light-
nings from the horrid darknefs; the tremendous peals of thunder; the ftorms of
fiery hail ;
the melting of the heavens, and diflblving into floods of tempeftuous
rains; the earth opening and fwallowing up her inhabitants; the rocks and moun-
tains cleaving afunder, and difclofing their fubterraneous channels, their torrents
of water, and bituminous fire, at the very breath of the noftrils of the Almighty;
are all of them circumftances which fill the guilty mind with horror and difmay,
and admirably exprefs the power, the prefence, and the omnifcience, of God
!
To what has been ftated above, I would earneftly recommend aa attentive peru-
fal of what I have written in the firft volume of my Complete Illuftration of the
Occult Sciences, from page 61 to 71; whence it will be manifeft to the full con-
vi6ton of the moft obftinate atheift, (if fuch a thing can really exift,) that there is a
God, all-powerful and intelligent; fupremely perfect; eternal and infinite; omni-
potent and omnifcient ;
who endures from eternity to eternity, and is prefent from
infinity to infinity
!
But though, from the nature and perfedions of the Deity, he is invifibly prefent
in all places, and nothing happens without his knowledge and permiffion ;
yet it is
exprefsly revealed in Scripture, and admitted by all wdfe and intelligent authors,
that he is vifibly prefent with the angels and fpirits, and blefled fouls of the de-
parted, in thofe manfions of blifs called Heaven. There he is pleafed to afford a
nearer and more immediate view of himfelf, and a more fenfible manifeftation of
his glory, and a more adequate perception of his attributes, than can be feen or felt
in any other parts of the univerfe ;
which place, for the fake of pre-eminent dif-
tin6lion, and as being the feat, and centre, from whence all things flow, and have their
beginning, life, light, power, and motion, is called the interior^ or empyrean. Heaven.
The pofition and order of this interior heaven, or centre of the Divinity, has been
varioufly defcribed, and its locality fomewhat difputed among the learned ; but all
agree as to the certainty of its exiftence. Hermes Trifmegiftus defines heaven to
be an intelle6tual fphere, whofe centre is every-w here, and circumference no-where;
but by this he meant no more than to affirm, w'hat we have done above, that God
is prefent every-where, and at all times, from infinity to infinity, that is to fay,
without limitation, bounds, or circumference. Plato fpeaks of this internal hea-
ven in terms w^hich bear fo ftri<5l a refemb lance w ith the books of Revelation, and
in fo elevated and magnificent a ftyle, that it is apparent the heathen philofophers,
notwithftanding their worfhipping demi or falfe gods, poflefled an unfhaken con-
fidence
8 A KEY TO PHYSIC
fidence in one omnipotent, fupreme, over-ruling, Power, whofe throne was the
centre of all things, and the abode of angels and bleffed fpirits.
To defcribe this interior heaven, in terms adequate to its magnificence and glory,
is utterly impoflible. The utmoft we can do, is to colle6l from the infpired writers,
and from the words of Revelation, affifted by occult philofophy, and a due know-
ledge of the celeftial fpheres, that order and pofition of it, which reafon, and the
divine lights we have, bring neareft to the truth. That God muft be ftri6tly and
literally the centre, from whence all ideas of the Divine Mind flow, as rays in every
dire6tion, through all fpheres, and through all bodies, cannot admit of a doubt.
That the inner circumference of this centre is furrounded, filled, or formed, by
arrangements of the three hierarchies of angels, is alfo confonant to reafon and
Scripture, and forms what may be termed the entrance or inner gate of the empy-
rean heaven, through which no fpirit can pafs without their knowledge and per-
miffion ;
and within which we muft fuppofe the vaft expanfe or manftons of the
Godhead, and glory of the Trinity, to be. This is ftridtly conformable to the idea
of all the prophets and evangelical writers. From this primary circle, or gate of
heaven, Lucifer, the grand Apoftate, as Milton finely defcribes it, was burled into
the bottomlefs abyfs ;
whofe office, as one of the higheft order of angels, having
placed him near the eternal throne, he became competitor for dominion and power
with God himfelf! But,
Him the Almighty Pow’r
Hurl’d headlong flaming from th’ ethereal fky.
With hideous ruin and combuftion, down
To bottomlefs perdition, there to dwell
In adamantine chains and penal fire !
Milton, Parade Lojl, b. i. 1. 44, &c.
The circles next furrounding the hierarchies, are compofed of the miniftering
angels and fpirits, and melfengers of the Deity. In pofitions anfwering to the ideas
of the holy Trinity, and interfering all orders of angels, are feated, in fulnefs of
glory and fplendor, thofe fuperior angels, or intelligent fpirits, who anfwer to the
divine attributes of God, and are the pure eflences or ftream through which the will
or fiat of the Godhead is communicated to the angels and fpirits, and inftantaneoufly
conduced to the Anima Mundi. Round the whole, as an atmofphere round a pla-
net, the Anima Mundi, or univerfal Spirit of Nature, is placed; which, receiving the
impreffions or ideas of the Divine Mind, condudls them onward, to the remoteft
parts of the univerfe; to infinity itfelf ;
to, and upon, and through, all bodies, and to
all God’s works. ’TK\?, Anima Mundi is therefore what we underftand of Nature, of
Providence,
'i: V'-'
. ^ ,
V .
^f.
-
'*
;
-
. y •
'
f; i
•/'' '
'
••(- ^
'
'
^T% - '’'>
(,-^#r.' . ft" V'-
N
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 9
Providence, of the prefence of God, and the fountain or feat of all fecond caufes,
being, as it were, the Eye of God, or medium between God and all creaX:ed
things. Next to the Anima Mundi, is that vaft region or expanfe, called the
ethereal heaven, or firmament, wherein the fixed ftars, planets, and comets, are
difpofed ;
and wherein the celeftial bodies, and the comets, move freely in all
diredtions, and towards all parts of the heavens.
To illuftrate what has been ftated above, I have fubjoined a plate of the Inte-
rior Heaven, with the different orders of the Spirits and Effences of the Divine Mind,
diflinguifiied by their proper names and charadters, in the original Hebrew text,
as pointed out in Holy Writ, and in the manufcripts of ancient and learned philo-
fophers. As thefe names and charadters are printed at length, and fully explained,
in the firft volume of my Illuftration of the Occult Sciences, p. 69, 70, and 71, it
is unneceffary to repeat the fame here ;
but for a more perfedl explanation of what
is there written, the annexed plate is abfolutely neceffary to affift the inquifitive
reader in forming a competent underftanding of the fubjedl. It will alfo appear
from this plate, in what manner the rays or beams of Divine Providence pafs from
the centre or feat of the Godhead, through all the different orders of angels and
fpirits, to the Anima Mundi, and from thence to all the celeftial bodies, planets,
and ftars ;
to our earth, and to the remoteft parts of infinite fpace, conftituting
what is termed celejtial influx, or that faculty in nature by which the quality and
temperature of one body is communicated to another.
OF NATURE.
No one expreflion, ufed by authors, or fpoken amongft men, is in general more
varioufly applied, or fo little underftood, as the word Nature. When fpeaking of
the nature of a thing, we moft commonly mean its effence ;
that is, the attributes
or caufes which make it what it is, whether the thing be corporeal or not ;
as when
we attempt to define the nature of a fluid, of a triangle, &c. oftentimes we confound
that which a man has by nature with what accrues to him by birth ;
as when we
fay, that fuch a man is noble by nature. Sometimes we take nature for an internal
principle of motion ;
as when we fay, that a ftone by nature falls to the ground.
Sometimes w’e underftand by nature, the eftablifhed courfe and order of things.
Sometimes we take nature for an aggregate of powers belonging to the fame body,
efpecially a living one ;
in which fenfe phyficians fay, that nature is ftrong, weak,
or fpent ;
or that, in fuch and fuch difeafes, nature left to herfelf will perform the
cure. Sometimes we ufe the term nature for the univerfe, or whole fyftem of
the corporeal w'orks of God ;
as when it is faid of a phoenix, or any imaginary
No. 1. D beiag.
10 A KEY TO PHYSIC
being, that there is no fuch thing in nature. Sometimes too, and that not unfre^
quently, Ave exprefs by the word nature, a kind of femi-deity, or fupernaturalfpirit,
prefiding over all things.
This general abufe of the word nature, is by no means peculiar to the Eng-
lifli people or language ;
it prevails more or lefs in all countries, and amongft all
fe6ls; and feems to have been copied from the fabulous ideas of the ancients.
Ariftotle has written a whole chapter, exprefsly to enumerate the various accepta-
tions of the Greek word <pva-n, rendered in Englilh nature ; and, among Latin wri-
ters, there are no lefs than fifteen or fixteen different acceptations of the fame
word, with advocates out of number for their interpretation. The bulk of them
infift, that the word nature radically means the fyftem of the world ;
the machine
of the univerfe; or the affemblageof all created beings; in which fenfe theyfpeak
of the Author of Nature ;
and call the fun the eye of nature, becaufe he illuminates
the univerfe ;
and the father of nature, becaufe he warms the earth, and makes
it fruitful. Others, underftanding the word in a more confined fenfe, apply it to
each of the feveral kinds of beings, created and uncreated ;
fpiritual and corpo-
real; thus they fay f/wiwe nature, angelical nature, and human nature, meaning
all men together who pofTefs the fame fpiritual reafonable foul.‘ In this fenfe
the fchoolmen and divines fay, natura naturans, and natura naturata ; fpeaking
of God, who is the natura naturans, as giving being and nature to all others ;
jn
oppofition or diftin6tion to the creatures, who are the natura naturata, as receiv-
ing their nature from the hands of another.
Nature, in a dill more limited fenfe, is ufed for the eflence of a thing; accord-
ing to which the Cartefians fay, it is the nature of the foul to think ;
and that the
nature of matter confifls in extenfion. Others more properly ufe the word Nature
for the eftablifhed order and courfe of material things ;
the feries of fecond caufes ;
or the laws which God has impofed oh every part of the creation ;
in which fenfe
it is they fay, nature makes the night fucceed the day, has rendered refpira-
tion necelfary to life, &c. According to Avhich, St. Thomas fpeaks of nature as a
kind of divine art, communicated to beings, which dire6t and carry them to the ends
they Avere intended for ;
in which fenfe nature can be neither more or lefs than a
concatenation of caufes and effects, or that order and (economy which God has efia-
bliflied in all parts of his creation. Others dill more driddy confider nature as
the a6tion of Providence, and the principle of all things; or that fpiritual power or
being, which is diffufed throughout the creation, and moves and a6ls in all bodies,
and gives them peculiar properties, and produces peculiar effe61s. In this fenfe,
our modern philofopher Mr. Boyle confiders nature as nothing elfe but God,
acting
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES.. 11
a6ling himfelf according to certain laws he himfelf has fixed. This correfponds
very much with the opinion of a fe61; of ancient philofophers, who made Nature
the god of the univerfe, Xon*v, whom they conceived to prefide over and govern
all things ;
but this they acknowledged to be only an imaginary being ;
and that
Nature meant no rfiore than the qualities^ or virtues, which God implanted in his
creatures, but which their poets and orators had figuratively perfonified as a god.
Hence F. Malebranche was aggravated to fay, “ that the Nature fo much fpoken
of in the fchools, is only fit to lead us back to pagan idolatry; fince it taught us
to underfland fomething, which, without being God, a61s continually throughout
the univerfe;” according to which, he fuppofes Nature would be adored as an
idol, conceived to pofTefs an a6lual principle, which, in concurrence with God, was
the next and immediate caufe of all the changes which befal matter.
Ariftotle, with a view of concentrating thefe ideas of nature into one point, as
beft adapted to the works of an infinitely-perfedt and all-powerful Being, defines
principium et caufa motus et ejus in quo ejt primo perfe, et non peracci-
dens
;
which definition being miftaken by the Peripatetics and Stoics, they from
hence conceived the principle of nature to be a certain fpirit or virtue diffufed
throughout the univerfe, which gave every thing its motion by the invariable order
of an inevitable neceffity, without liberty or knowledge. This induced the idea of
a plajlic nature, which feveral learned modern writers have defcribed to be an in-
corporeal created fubftance, indued with a vegetative life, but not with fenfation or
thought, penetrating the whole created univerfe, being co-extended wdth it, and,
under God, moving matter fo as to produce the phenomena which cannot be fol-
ved by mechanical laws ;
ai5live for ends unknown to itfelf, not being confcious of
its own actions, and yet having an obfcure idea of the a6lion to be entered upon.
Infupportof \N\%plaJiic nature, Y>v. Cudworth argues thus: “Since neither all things
are produced fortuitoufly, or by the unguided mechanifm of matter, nor God
himfelf may reafonably be thought to do all things immediately and miraculoufly,
it may well be concluded, that there is a plajiic or formative nature under him,
which, as an inferior and fubordinate inftrument, executes that part of his provi-
dence which confifts in the regular motion of matter ;
yet fo as that there is alfo,
befides this, a higher providence to be acknowledged, which, prefiding over it, doth
often fupply the defe6ls of it, and fometimes over-rule it, forafmuch as this plaftic
nature cannot a6l eledtively, nor with difcretion.” This doctrine, he conceives,
had the fuffrage of the beft philofophers of all ages, Ariftotle, Plato, Empedo-
cles, Heraclitus, Hippocrates, Zeno, and the Stoics, and the latter Platonifts and
Peripatetics, as well as the chemifts and Paracelfians, and feveral modern writers.
Now
A KEY TO PHYSIC
Now I am dearly of opinion, that, notwithftanding thefe great authors have fo
obftinately contended for the definition of the word, and for the principles and
conftrudion of Nature, yet they all in reality meant one and the fame thing, only
giving different explanations of the fame ideas ;
and if their arguments are clofely
purfued, and compared with each other, they will all tendtofliow, that the anima
mundi, or foul of the univerfe, was what they meant by Nature.
This aiiima mundi, as we have before feen, is a medium inverting the whole inte-
rior heavens, and confirts of a pure ethereal fubrtance, or fpirit ;
which, as it more
immediately refides in the celertial regions, is the fe'cond or next caufe, under God,
that moves and governs the heavens, and heavenly bodies, rtars, and planets
;
which bodies, having received their firrt exirtence from the fecundity of the fame
fpirit in the a6l of creation, are by an influx of fyrnpathetic rays, and by light,
heat, gravity, and motion, nouriflied and furtained, upheld and continued, in the
fame regular courfe, and in the beautiful order we fee them. From the celeftial
regions, the fame influx of pure ethereal fpirit defcends into every part of the im-
meafurable fpace, and is (iiffufed through the mafs of this world, informing, aftuat-
ing, and uniting the different parts thereof into various fubftances ; and beino- the
primary fource of life, every-where breathing a fpirit like itfelf, it pervades all
elementary bodies, and, intimately mixing with all the minute atoms thereof, con-
rtitutes the power or inrtrument we call Nature, forming, fafliioning, and propaga-
ting, all things, conformably to the ideas or will of the Divine Mind in the firft
a6l of creation. And fo the poet
:
Spiritus intiis alit, totofque infufa per artus
Mens agitat molem, et magnofe corpore mifcet.
The only thing that has been objected to the notion of an anima mundi, is, that it
mingles the Deity too much with his creatures; confounds, in fome meafure, the
workman with his work, making this, as it were, a part of that, and the feveral
portions of the univerfe fo many parts of the Godhead.—Yet is the fame principle
afferted by Seneca, Epirt. 92. Totum hoc quo continemur, et unumeft, et Deus. Et
focii ejus Jumus, et membra. M. du Hamel thinks, that thofe who deny it, objedl
without a reafon ;
of which every one will h& fenfible, who reads the defcription
above given, rtnce it in no refpe6l confounds our comprehenfion of an infinitely-wife
and Supreme Being with that of the anima mundi; but, on the contrary, proves it to
be as diftin6l from the Deity as are the angels and fpirits in heaven. And we may
further obferve, from what is above premifed, that thofe who deny the anima
mundi on one hand generally admit it on the other. Thus the Peripatetics
have
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 13
have recourfe to celeftial influxes, which is partly the fame thing, in order to ac-
count for the origin of forms, and the occult power of bodies. The Cartelians
have their fubtle matter, which anfwers to the active fpirit of the anima mundi.
Others fuppofe an a6fuating fpirit to flow from the fun, and the other heavenly
bodies, which is diffufed over all parts of the world, and is the fource or principle
of life, motion, &c. w'hich is flill the fame thing. Some philofophers, in the place
of thefe, have fubftituted the idea of fire, or an etherial elaftic fpirit, diffufed
through all parts of fpace, as the medium by which elementary bodies are nou-
riflied and fuftained ; which nearly comes to the fame thing. Evei^ thofe who
have contended for a,pbi/tic nature, fall in wdth every principle of the anima mundi;
only they infifl that the formative power is lodged in the earth ;
whereas the truth
is, that it dwells in the heavens, and is conveyed to the earth, to the elements, and
into all matter, by the medium I have defcribed.
I mall conclude this definition of Nature, with remarking, agreeable to the
opinion of ^he ingenious Mr. Boyle, that, in order to regulate our conceptions of
the worddn common, and to render the application of it lefs ambiguous, we fliould
diftinguifli between the univerfal and the particular nature of things. Univerfal
nature we fhould Confider to be the aggregate of all the bodies that make up the
world, under the anima mundi, confidered as a principle by virtue wdiereof they adl
and fuffer, according to the laws originally prefcribed by the Author of all things*
And this makes way for the other fubordinate notion; fince the particular nature
of an individual confifts in the general nature, but only applied to that diftin^t
part or portion of the univerfe; or, which is the fame thing, it is a particular af-
fernblage of the mechanical properties of matter, motion, &c. of that fubjeft which
immediately engages our attention.
Of the VISIBLE and OCCULT PROPERTIES of NATURE.
HAVING thus far explained the foregoing fubjeft, w^e come next to an invef-
tigation of Canfes, and their Effects, or the means whereby Nature adls in the fruc-
tification of the univerfe. We derive the idea of caufes and effedts from our ob-
fervations of the viciffitudes of things, while we perceive fome qualities or fub-
ftances begin to exift, and that they receive their exiftence from the due applica-
tion and operation of other beings ;
in all which circumftances, that which pro-
duces is the Caufe, and that which is produced is the Effedt. There is fuch a rela-
tion and conn^dtion between the caufe and the effedl, that we cannot have a true
notion of the one, unlefs at the fame time w^e have a conception of the other.
So in general we fay that a caufe is nothing elfe- but that which gives being to
^0. 2. E another
14 A KEY TO PHYSIC
another thing, which is the efFe<5t of it, which way foever it happens, according t»
the various caufes.
The Firjt Caufe, which afts of itfelf, and of its own fupreme power and will, is
God. This is a truth fo evident, and fo confpicuous, that it cannot be denied. The
exilience of a Firfl Caufe may be deduced from the certainty of our own exiftence;
for that we exift in the world, is a felf-evident truth ;
but that we came into it of
ourfelves, or by cafualty, necefifity, or chance, isabfolutely impoflible. The fource
of OUT exiftence muft therefore be derived from fome being, who, as the author,
muft alfo be the free principle, of that eflence, or life, we poftefs. To fay that
we ouiTelves were the caufe of our being, would be ridiculous ; becaufe from thence
it would follow that we exifted before we had a being; that we gave ourfelves that
which we were not in the pofleflion of ;
and that the caufe and the effedt were one
and the fame thing; which is likewife impoflible. It is no lefs an error to affirm
that we are in the world by neceflity ;
for, if fuch were the cafe, our exiftence would
have never had a beginning, and we Ihould have been immutable and independent,
and infinite in every kind of perfedtion; but, as thefe qualities are only applicable
to a firft caufe, it follows that fuch caufe muft be Almighty.
Thofe who are convinced of the exiftence of a firft caufe, muft neceffarily attri-
bute to it all the perfedUons which are or can be in the world ;
that it is not only
moft perfeft, and moft noble, but alfo, that all the effedls which it hath produced,
or is capable of producing, are contained within itfelf, in the utmoft perfedlion;
and that every one of them is infinite, in the unity of its being; for it is necefiary it
fhould poffefs the perfe6tions of thofe beings it hath or can produce, otherwife it
would be faid to communicate that which it neither hath nor can have. The firft
caufe would not be abfolutely perfedl, if it was not Eternal ;
for fo it would have
had a beginning, and might have an end ;
and then it could not have been the firft
caufe, infomuch as it derives its exiftence from that which was pre-exiftent to it;
and by confequence this caufe, which we fuppofe to be the firft, would be a fe-
cond caufe, limited in its being and perfedlions, as in its duration; and it would
feem to have a dependence upon another; whereas, w'hen we fuppofe it to be the
firft, all others muft depend upon, and be fubordinate to, it. Whence it follows,
that thefe qualities muft be infeparable from it, independence, eternity, infinity,
and fupreme authority ;
andthat we cannot conceive any firft caufe, but at the
fame time we muft acknowledge the exiftence of God.
This firjl caufe, which is God, muft neceflarily have that peife^i unity, which ad-
mits no multiplication either of nature or perfedlions. Certainly if God was not
one in his being, but had feveral natures, the number of them ought to be infinite,
4 and
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 1$
3nd 3’6t none of thefe beings ia particular would be infinite, becaufe, when the per.
jfedion of one cannot be the perfeftion of another, there will not be one to be found
but will Hand in need of the other, that is, in whom there would not be requifite
that perfection which the other beings poffefs. Therefore we may add, that all thefe
fuppofed beings would be oppofite, independent, and all fupreme, ivhich is irnpof-
fible; or that all would be fubje6l to one or other of them, which is ridiculous;
whence it follows, that there is but one only God, who is one in his exiftence, in-
capable of any multiplication, and who is the primary and univerfal caufe of all
things. The great number, or rather the infinity, of perfedtions which we appre-
hend to be in the firft caufe, is not repugnant to the Trinity, becaufe that does npt
divide the being; and thefe perfedlions are but one and the fame thing, though we
give them feveral names, and confider them under feveral ideas, which we are forced
to corredl; fince without that unity there would be necelfarily a compolition of
parts, which would be the materials of the whole compound, and w ould precede its
exiftence ;
therefore could not be the ingredients of that compofition, without fome-
thing elfe intervening. They may alfo be divided and feparated; fo that, by the
dilfolution of the parts, the compound would ceafe ;
which is plainly inconfifteut
with that idea we have of God, who is not fimple in his nature, independent in his
will, and every way incorruptible. The firft caufe is only one, and without its like,
in its etfence, but alfo one foie,, and without a fecond, in that adtion by which this
world was produced; and for this reafon the adtion is called creation^ fuppofing
nothing but mere nothing, out of which all things were made, by the only power of
God, without the help of any other, having either the quality of an agent or a fub->
jedl. The world, being produced by this firft caufe, remains fubjedl to the will and
pleafure of it ;
and, in the fame manner as it was produced by the foie adt of this
firft caufe, fo it is preferved in the fame ftate, by the foie influence of the fame
caufe ; which, as it did not want any help in the creation of the univerfe, fo neither
doth itftand in need of any affiftance in the confervation of it. If the firft caufe
was free in the creation of the world, thence it follows that all things w'ere made
by diredtion of reafon and underftanding, and by eonfequence according to a cer^#
tain idea and rule : and, fince the firft caufe operates after an independent manner,
it could not have the type of its produdtion any where elfe but from itfelf; neither
could it adt by a rule diftindl from its own being; fo that in truth God is not only
the firft, but the exemplary, caufe of all things.. For the fame reafon it may be
faid, that the firft caufe, which is God, is the final caufe of all things; for when he, as
an intelligent and free being, produced this world, he propofed to himfelf an end
anfwerable to his dignity, that is, to himfelf and his own proper glory. So that
the
A KEY TO PHYSIC
W
the Firft Caufe is, neceffarily, the ultiniate end of all its effe(?ls. This is a nice
fubjefty wherein all preachers and writers feem at a lofs; but the cafe is clear and
beautiful to thofe who purfue the leffons of wifdom and fcience.
Second Caufes are thofe which derive the power or faculty of ailing from the in-
fluence of the Firft Caufe. Hence the anima mundi is the feat of all fecond caufes,
which are alfo termed natural caufes, becaufe they have implanted in them, by the
Firft Caufe, the occult power of diffufing through all fpace, and of communicating
to all bodies, that univerfal foul, or etherial fpirit, whereby every particle of matter
is moved, and made to ^cl upon one another, fo as to produce the various pheno-
mena in nature, in the animal, vegetable, and mineral, worlds; in the elements, and
in the firmament of heaven. This univerfal fpirit or caufe a6ls univerfally with
particular caufes; but after a manner agreeing with the nature of every particular
thing, and according to the power which was given it when it was created; w'hich
neither alters the quality of the caufes, nor the neceftity or liberty of their actions..
This power ©f a6ting, which is communicated by fecond caufes,, is not a quality
different from thofe things im powered to a6t; whence the power which th^ atoms
have of moving in all directions doth not differ from the atoms themfelves; the power
of burning or heating doth not differ from the fire to which it is inherent, unlefs
it be in the manner of our conceiving things, or of fpeaking of them according to
our conceptions. So it is of an aCtion which terminates from the caufe to the ef-
feCt, and which is nothing elfe than a certain relation, or an aClual fubordination,
which is always found betwixt the caufe and the effeCl. Hence we perceive that
fecond caufes are what all philofophers, ancient and modern, have contended for
tinder different forms ;
and are neither more nor lefs than that univerfal fpirit, or
inherent law, implanted in nature at the creation, whereby all God’s works are re-
gulated and preferved, and the ends and purpofes of that creation conduced to
GodV glory and manifeftation, and to the good of all his creatures, the ftudy of
which opens our eyes to the bright beams of true wifdom ; to the mutual harmony
and dependence one thing has upon another ;
to the fympathy and antipathy of
material bodies ;
to the perceptions of fenfe, reafon, and intelleClual vifion ; to the
nice faculties and exquifite conne6lion of foul and body ;
and ultimately to the
knowledge of ourfelves, of our progrefs through this world ;
of our fublunary fate
and fortune ;
and of the things calculated to preferve life, or to deftroy it.
Efficient Caufes are all thofe a6lions of bodies or things, which are the agents or
direft means whereby any effects are produced. Thus a painter, painting a picture,
is an efficient caufe ;
and the picture itfelf, when finiftied, is the effect thereof.
Efficient caufes comprehend a number of compound or fubordinate caufes, which
alfo
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 17
alfo contribute towards the produ6lion of their effeft. If the efficient caufe a6ls
by a power proper to itfelf, then it is called the principal caufe ;
but, if only, by the
force and flrength of another, then it is termed theinffruraental caufe. So we dif-
tinguifli between the painter and the pencil, though both contribute to the pro-
du6tion of the pidture. Again, the fubjedf whereon the agent works, or whereof
the thing is formed, is called the material caufe ;
thus the marble out of which a
flatue is carved, is called the material caufe ; as is likewife the paint and canvas of
a pidture, as being the matter, or materials, of which they are made ;
the fculptoi
and painter being the efficient caufes. There is alfo an efficient caufe in the fun,
moon, ftars, and elements, whereby they adt upon fublunary matter, and produce a
variety of effedts in the frudlificalion and phenomena of this world. From thefe
a-rife neceffary and free caufes : the firft of which adl necelfarily and without choice ;
as fire, the fun, and all-created beings, except angels and men ; for they adl by a free
will, wherein confifls the effence of liberty. The efficient caufe is likewife either
phyfical, or moral; the phyjical is that which produces a fenfible corporeal effedt,
and adls obvioufly and immediately ;
thus fire is the phyfical caufe of burning, and
the fun the phyfical caufe of heat. The moral caufe alfo produces a real effedl, but
in things immaterial ;
thus, repentance is the moral caufe of forgivenefs. Again,
we define a phyjical caufe to be that which produces its effedl by a phyfical virtue;
and a moral caufe, that which determines the phyfical caufe, though not neceffarily.
to produce the effedl;, thus, the fun is the phyfical caufe of light; a flone'that falls
from an eminence, and fradlures the fkull, is a phyfical caufe of death; and thus
the advice, intreaty, commands, or menaces, which determine us, though not ne-
eejjarily, to do, or not to do, any thing, are moral caufes. In this fenfe it is obvious
a moral caufe is only applicable to a free intelligent agent; and it is this notion of
a moral and phyfical caufe that is the moft juft, clear, and diftindl.
Whenever the efficient caufe applies to a free intelligent being, and adls from
knowledge, all the fubordinate caufes concur to the produdlion of one and the fame
effedl ;
as for example, the painter drawing his pidlure is the principal caufe ;
the
pencil the inftrumental ;
the end propofed by the painter is the final caufe ;
the idea
diredling the performance is the exemplary caufe; the form and difpofition of its
parts is the formal caufe; the colours and the canvas are the material caufe, as being
the conftituent matter of the work; and if the artift, by any accidental touch, im-
^
proves his pidlure, like Agillaus, who labouring many days to draw a foaming horfe,
and could not, in a paffion flung his brufli at the painting, and the thing he wanted
was thus accompliflied when it was not intended—it. is termed an accidental caufe.
So that we fee all fubordinate caufes are in effedl under the efficient caufe ;
and
are fubfervient to it, when applied by reafon, and diredled by Ikill.
No. 2, F Form.
IS A KEY TO PHYSIC
Form dtXxA formal caufe is one and the fame thing; and, when we fay there are
two forts of forms, that is only according to our manner of conceiving things; fo
we fay there are two forts of formal caufes, the fuhftantial and accidental. But all
forms are ifnaginary; neither do true philofophers acknowledge any other fubftance
to be in natural compounds than matter, except only in man ;
nor any other form
than the difpofition of the parts, becaufe all thefe forms are altogether ufelefs.
^loreover, the exemplary caufe may be referred to the formal, becaufe it is the
idea and inward form of that which we frame in our fpirit ; fo the formal caufe of
a pi6iure is the difpofition of its parts, according to the difpofition and ordination
'
which it then had in the mind of the painter. The fame may be faid of all rational
agents which are endued with underflanding.
There is no difference betwixt matter and a material caufe ;
and there are two
forts of material caufes, as well as of matter. That is the firjl matter out of which
all bodies are compofed, and into which, by an univerfal divilion, they may be re-
duced ;
the fecond is nothing elfe but bodies made of the firfl, and upon which the
efficient caufes exercife their action. Therefore it is apparent, that there is nothing
in the world but what is a compound, and that there is no compound without mat-
ter. It is alfo certain that there is nothing made without an efficient caufe, which
a6ts upon compounds, and deftroys them, that of them others may be made; becaufe
the matter of the firfl ferves for the compofition of the fecond. The matter which
goes to the compofition of the firfl and fecond is thejirjl matter^ or material caufe,
of the compound ;
and that matter which ferves the efficient caufe for afubje6l and
patient is called the fecond matter. Both of them may be an efficient caufe ; for
compounds aft upon one another like the elements, which drive one another back-
wards and forwards. That which drives another is called the agent, as that which
is driven is called the patient ;
and if there be any thing which refills it, and drives
back another, this regrefs of the motion is called re-aBion. So that one and the
fame thing may be the fubjeft and caufe of motion ;
and that, to give and receive
being the principle of agent and patient, both may happen at the fame time, but
in divers refpefts.
Efficient caufes, in folid and fluid bodies, we often fee, aft in a moft wonderful
manner; and, if they were not vifible to our eyes, we fhould fcarcely believe any of
thefe occult properties exifled in them. Thus, the aftion of oil, in flopping the
violent ebullition ofvarious fubflances, is truly furprifmg. It is well known, that if a
mixture of fugar, honey, or the like, be boiling on the fire, and in danger of riling
over the tides of the veffel, the pouring in a little oil immediately makes it fubfide.
In many cafes the marking a circle round the infide of a veffel, in which a liquor of
' 2 this
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 'IQ
.
this kind is to be boiled, with a piece of hard foap, diall, like a magic ring, confine
the ebullition to that height, and not fnffer it to ftir any farther. This is wholly
owing to the oil, or fat, contained in the foap : but there is, befides thefe, another very
important ufe of oil, oq a like occafion, which is the pouring a little of it on any me-
tallic folution while making ;
this reftrains the afcent of the noxious vapours ;
pre-
ferves the operator from danger; and, at the fame timej by keeping down the evapo-
rating matter, gives redoubled ftrength to the menftruum. Pliny has mentioned an
extraordinary effe<?t of oil, in Hilling the furface of water when it is agitated with
weaves, ahd the ufe made of it, by the divers, for this purpofe : Omne, fays he, oleo
tranquillariy ^c. lib. ii. cap. 103. And Plutarch, in Quffift. Natur. afks, Cur mare
oleo confperfumper lucidumjit et tranquillum? Pliny’s account feems to have been
either difcreditedor difregarded by our writers on experimental philofophy, till it was
' confirmed by feveral curious experiments of Dr. Franklin, which were publifhed in
the year 1774. The property of oil above mentioned has, however, been well known
to modern divers and dredgers for oyfters at Gibraltar, and elfewhere. The divers in
the Mediterranean, in particular, defcend, as in Pliny’s time, with a little oil in their
mouths, w'hichthey now and then let out ;
and which, on rifing to the furface of the
fea, immediately renders it fmooth, fo as to permit the light to pafs through the wa-
ter undifturbed by various and irregular refraQ;ions. The Bermudans are enabled
to fee and ftrike filh, which would be concealed from their view through the /
roughnefs of the fea, by pouring a little oil upon it. And the Lifbon filhermen ef-
fedl a fafe palFage over the bar of the Tagus, by emptying a bottle or two of oil into
the fea, when the furfis fo great as to endanger its filling their boats. Our failors
have alfo obferved, that the water is always much fmoother in the wake ofa Ihip that
hath been newly tallowed than it is in one that is foul. Dr. Franklin was led, by
an accidental obfervation made at fea in 1757, to attend particularly to Pliny’s ac-
count ;
and the various informations which he afterwards received relating to it in-
duced him to try fome experiments on the fubjeft. Standing on the windward fide
of a large pond, the furfacq of which was rendered very rough with the wind, he
poured a tea-fpoonful of oil on the water. This fmall quantity produced an inftant
calm over a fpace of feveral yards fquare, which fpread amazingly, and extended it-
felf gradually, till it reached the lee fide, making all that quarter of the pond, per-
haps half an acre, as fmooth as a looking-glafs. On repeating this experiment,
which conllantly fucceeded, one circumftance ftruck him with particular furprife ;
this was the fudden, wide, and forcible, fpreading of a drop of oil on the face of the
water, which, he adds, I do not know that any body has confidered.” When a
drop of oil is pu| on a looking-glafs, or poiilhed marble, it fpreads very little; but
on
20 A KEY TO PHYSIC
on water it inftantly expands into a circle extending feveral feet in diameter, becom-
ing fo thin as to produce the prifmatic colours for a confiderable fpace, and beyond
them fo much thinner as to be invifible, except in its effe6ls of fmoothing the waves
at a much greater didance. It feems, fays Dr. Franklin, as if a mutual repulfior>
between its particles took place as foon as it touched the water, and a repulfion fo
ftrong as to a6l on other bodies fwimming on the furface, as ftraws, leaves, &c.
forcing them to recede every w^ay from the drop, as from a centre, leaving a large
clear fpace. In endeavouring to account for the fingular effefts of oil. Dr. Frank-
lin obferves, that there feems to be no natural repulfion between water and air, fuch
as to keep them from coming into contaft with each other. —Therefore, air in mo-
tion, which is wind, in palling over the fmooth furface of water, may rub, as it were,
on that furface, and raife it into wrinkles, which, if the wind continues, are the ele-
ments of future waves. The fmalleft w’ave does not immediately fublide, but in
fubliding raifes nearly as much of the water next to it. A fmall pow'er, continually
operating, will produce a great adiion : fo that the firft-raifed waves, being continu-
ally afted upon by the wind, are, though the wind does not increafe in ftrength,
continually increafed in magnitude, riling higher and extending their bafes, fo as to
include a vail mafs of water in each wave, which, in its motion, a6ls with great vio-
lence. But, if there be a mutual repulfion between the particles of oil, and no at~
tradlion between oil and water, oil dropt on water will not be held together by ad-
hefion to the fpot on which it falls : it will not be imbibed by the water, but be at
liberty to expand itfelf and fpread on a furface, that prevents, perhaps, by repelling
the oil, all immediate conta6l; the expanlion will continue till the mutual repulfion
between the particles of oil is weakened, and reduced to nothing by their dillance.
Dr. Franklin imagines, that the wind, blowing over water thus covered with
a film of oil, cannot eafily catch upon it, fo as to raife the firft wrinkles, but Hides
over it, and leaves it fmooth as it finds it. It moves a little the oil, indeed, which,
being between it and the water, ferves it to Hide with, and prevents fri6lion : hence
the oil, dropt on the windward fide of the pond, proceeds gradually do leeward, as
may be feeh by the fmoothnefs it carries with it quite to the oppofite fide ;
for the
wind, being thus prevented from railing the firll wrinkles, which he calls the ele-
ments of waves, cannot produce waves, which are to be made by continually acting
upon and enlarging thofe elements; and thus the whole pond is calmed. Upon the
whole, there is great room to fuppofe (notwithllanding the partial failure of an ex-
perinient made at Portfmouth by Dr. Franklin and others), that feafaring people
may derive advantages from ufing oil on particular occafions, in order to moderate
the violence of the waves, or to lelTen the furf which fometimes renders the landing
on
C
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 21
on a lee-fliore dangerous or impra6licable. To this purpofe we are imformed, that
the captain of a Dutch Eafl India ftiip, being overtaken by a ftorm, found hinifelf
obliged, for greater fafety in wearing the ftiip, to pour oil into the fea, to prevent
the waves breaking over her; which had an excellent effe6t, and fucceeded in prefer-
ving her. Phil. Tranf. vol. Ixiv. parts, p. 445, &c. It is alfo- obfervable, on
the coaft of Sutherland, when the lump-fifh abounds in fpring, and are devoured by
the feals, that it may be known by the fmoothnefs of the water above the fpot; the
oil ferving to ftill the agitation of the waves.
Occajionalcaufe is applied to the foul and body of man, and are only the occq/ions,
not the direct caufes, of their effeds. The foul is not able to a<5t on the body, nor
the body reciprocally on the foul : to keep up an intercourfe between them, God,
on occafion of a motion of the body, impreffes a fenfation on the feul ;
and, on occa-
fipn of a fentiment of the foul, impreffes a motion on the body : the motions, therefore,
of the foul and body, are only occajional caxifes of what paflfes in the one or the
other. Thus, we fay, the ftroke, or percuffion, is only the occafional caufe of the
mf>tion produced in the body ftruck; it is God is the direft efficient caufe. And
thus the a6tion of objects on our organs is not the efficient caufe of our ideas and
perceptions, but merely the occafional caufe, which determines God to a6lon the
mind, according to the laws of the union of foul and body.
In a medical fenfe, whatever produces a difeafeis called the caufe thereof. This
operates either by inducing a new ftate of the folids and fluids, or by taking away
fomething which is abfolutely requifite to the exercife of fome function. If a caufe
pre-exifted in fome meafure in the body before the efFe6l produced, it is called an
internal caufe ;
but if it exifted out of the body, and by its application to it produced
the difeafe, it is called external.
Internal caufes generally injure firft the humours, and then the folid parts ;
whereas, the external caufes affe6l the folids, and, in confequence of that, the hu-
mours ; and this holds univerfally, unlefs perhaps in fome few difeafes produced by
poifon or contagion. The immediate caufe is that which taken altogether immedi-
ately conftitutes the prefent difeafe ;
this is always adequate, and fufficient to the
formation of the difeafe, whether fimple or complicated. The prefence of this con-
ftitutes and continues the difeafe ; and the abfence of it removes the diforder, being
very little different from the difeafe itfelf. The inveftigation, therefore, of this is ex-
tremely ufefiil and very neceffary. The remote caufe is that which changes the body
in fuch a manner, as to difpofe it for the reception of a difeafe upon the accelTion of
another caufe; but it is never adequate or fufficient to produce a difeafe alone; nor
would that other caufe, the acccefijon of which is neceffary, be of itfelf fufficient for
No. 2, G the
A KEY TO PHYSIC
^2
the produ6lion of the difeafe; but both muft concur. The bufinefs of phyfic, there-
fore, is to eradicate both together, which, in conjun6i:ion, conftitute the proximate
or immediate caufe. The remote caufe inherent in the body, is called predifponent,
antecedent, and by the Greeks w-fon^oufAEV)), and confifls principally in temperaments,
plethora, and cacochymy. The caufe whofe acceffion to the remote caufe excites,
and in conjunction with it forms, the difeafe, is called the procatarClic caufe, or the
wfofpatTif, or occaiion of the difeafe. It is fometimes internal, fometimes external.
Thefe Boerhaave reduces to four claifes. Firft, the ingejla, or things entering the
body ;
fuch as the air, aliments, drink, medicines, poifons, fuch things as enter
by the pores of the fkin and noftrils ;
by tlie feveral paffages of the mouth, lungs,
oefophagus, ftomach, inieflines, &c. either in a vifible or invifible manner; vyhether
by fleam, draught, deglutition, clyfter, or injeClion. Secondly, the gejla, or things
aCled, as motion of the whole or any part of the body, affeClions of the mind, reft,
both of the body and mind, fleeping and watching. Thirdly, things retained, or
excreted, whether falubrious, fecrementious, or morbid. Fourthly, things applied
to the body ;
as air, vapours, fomentations, cloths, liniments, ointments, and
plafters ;
together with whatever wounds, contufes, or corrodes : all which cir-
cumftances ftiould be well confidered by medical men.
Of THE FIRST MATTER.
ALL philofophers agree that there is afirji matter, which was pjroduced from the
beginning; and, though it can never undergo any change, yet it is to be feen in all
the generations and corruptions which are in nature. Hence it appears, that the
firft matter exifted before the. generation of the compounds wherein it is found, and
that it ftill remains and furvives the corruption of it ; as, for inftance, in fire which is
made of chips; the matter of the fire was in the chips, and is found partly in the
fire, partly in the fmoke, and partly alfo in the allies. It is agreed by all, that no-
thing produces nothing, and that there is not any thing in nature that can be redu-
ced into nothing, but that the firft principles remain in all revolutions which can
happen ;
therefore, in refpe6l of matter, we may juftly fay, that there is nothing
new in the world fince the creation, and that this matter in its nature is incorrupti-
ble; fo that to explain the effence of this fit ft matter is the only difficulty.—Ariftotle
makes it the fubjeft of all forms, and nottiing but a palfive power or a mere capacity
of producing them. He fays alfo', that matter in itfelf hath neither quality nor quan-
tity, nor any effence befi Jes that which it received from that form which perfedled it
:
but this explication gives us no clear idea of matter, neither doth it teach us any
thing of the nature of it. Thofe were nearer the truth who faid that the firft matter
was
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. S3
was nothing elfe but the firft elements into which compounds by a total diflblution
are reduced ;
alfo that thefe elements ought to be fimple and indivifible, for other-
wife the firft elements are not fuch as we fuppofe them to be. It follows from this
do6lrine, that neither water, air, earth, nor fire, are firft elements, becaufe they
are compounds, as by the new chemiftry is evidently proved ;
therefore, we muft
look for other elements which are fimple and indivifible. Now, it is obvious, that
fimple and indivifible atoms are the only firft matter, and the principle and elements
whereof bodies are compofed : out of thefe atoms are corpufcles made, out of
thefe corpufcles fmall mafles, out of mafles greater parts, and of thefe parts
greater bodies, whereof the univerfe itfelf confifts. And vice verfa, going back-
M'ard analytically, the world is divided into great bodies, thofe bodies are reduced
by mortality and time into parts, parts into fmall mafles, mafles into corpufcles,
and, laftly, corpufcles into atoms.
Of atoms, and their NATURE.
TO demonftrate the exiftence of atoms, we may fuppofe that every compound
may be divided into fo many parts as they are which make the compound; and di-
vifion muft neceflarily ceafe when there is a failure of parts to be divided. On
the other hand, there is no end of divifion as long as there are particles to be di-
vided ;
for we muft allow, either that a body cannot be fo exaftly divided but
that there always remain divifible parts in injinitum, or that there are parts after a
certain number of divifions which will not admit any further divifions. Ariftotie holds^
the former, but Gaflendus and the ancient philofophers defend the latter; and, ac-
cording to this laft dobtrine, after all the divifions are made, nothing can remain be-
fides atoms, that is, indivifible beings, which are the firft elements of natural bodies.
1 confefs it is hard toimagine a corporeal thing to be indivifible, becaufe we fee no-
thing in this world which is not divifible ;
but this makes nothing againft atoms which
are corporeal, becaufe they compofe bodies, and are indivifible, becaufe they are the
fi ft and moft fimple elements of bodies. Hence arifes another difficulty, becaufe it
cannot be eafily explained after what manner a thing that is divifiole is compofed of
parts which are indivifible- Impartial minds do not find fo much difficulty in conceiv-
ing this matter, as thofe do who follow the prejudices they have received; fome
people do not Confider, fii fl, that there are many things which efcape our fenfes, and
yet are moft real; fecundly, that which compofes a body is not a compound, as
we fee that unity makes number, though itfelf be not a number;, letters, whereof
nouns and words are framed, yet are neither one or the other; the drops of water,
whereof rivers confift, are not rivers : fo atoms, though they are invifibie and indi-
vifible
24 A KEY TO PHYSIC
vifible, yet they compote bodies which are vifible and divifible. They are alio
immutable, in order to the world’s continuing in the fame ftate, and bodies being
of the fame nature now as formerly.
Of the properties, MAGNITUDE, FIGURE, WEIGHT, and
MOTION, OF ATOMS.
An atom is a corporeal being, fimple, invifible, and indivifible; folidity coiiili-
tutes its eifence or eifential property, which dittinguifhes it from fpirit and vacuity,
which hath no power of refilling. Atoms necelfarily avoid all our fenfes, becaufe
they are compofed of many dillindl and grofs parts, whofe object ought to be com-
pofed ere it can be perceived by the external organ ;
this, however, does not dellroy
the truth and reality of atoms, becaufe finall corpufcles efcape our fenfes ;
as we
obferve in dull, which llicks to our clothes ;
in the corpufcles of a ftone, which
is made hollow by drops of water; in divers occult parts in a mite, which cannot
be feen without the help of a microfcope ; and, lallly, in finall corpufcles which
are feen to move in a chamber by the fun-beams ; we may omit many others that
are fmaller, which, without doubt, w e could fee if our fight were more acute.
Though atoms are moll fubtle and imperceptible, yet they have their particular
extenfion, magnitude, and figure, from whence their differences arife: for the figure
of fomeof them is round, as the atoms of water, oil, and quickfilver; otliers have
cubicular figures, fuch as the atoms of fea-water; and others are pyramidal, as thofe
whereof nitre confifts; there are fome which have lharp points like needles, as thofe
of fire ;
w hence we have to fuppofe there are others varioully figured. This difference
is neceffary to dillinguilh compounds : and as thefe atoms, as to their folidity or in-
vifibility and indivifibility, (which are their infeparable properties,) are alike, fo
alfo, if they did not differ in their figure and thicknefs, all bodies would be alike.
Weight is the principle of the faid natural motion, inafaiuch as it doth refift a
violent mo* ion. I mention this, that we may know whether motion in atoms hath
an internal or external principle, or whether weight be determined only to one
motion, or that it be indifferently inclined to many ; and whether the motion of
atoms doth tend to fome centre; and whether it be continuant or interrupted,
and, laftly, whether it be perpendicular or horizontal, parallel or declined, right,
or parabolical, or circular.
In order to folve this difficulty, I fappofe that atoms may be confidered in a double
(late: the firfl ftate is before thecomp(»fition of the bodies which are made of them,
and may be called the date of liberty; the other is that which they have in the bodies
which confift of them, which may be termed the llate ot obligation or fervitude.
4 If
25
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES.
If atoms be confidered in their firft ftate, their motion is perpetual ;
fo that an
atom that is loofe, and freed from any compofition, is effentially in motion, which
ought not in the leaft to be wondered at ;
for motion in refpefit of a free atom is the
fame that underftanding is in refpedt of an angel, which is never without knowing,
unlefs his intelledt be bound and clouded.
From this principle it is evident, that atoms are in continual motion, unlefs
they are hindered, or that they meet with fome obftrudtion, or that there are other
atoms refifting or repelling them, or that they find fuch as will ftick to them, or that
they infmuate themfelves into the atoms of certain bodies, or that they enter into
fome compofition whereby their motion is Hopped. Neverthelefs, atoms in com-
pounds are not altogether void of motion, becaufe they are not fo ftraitly embo-
died together but that they have fome motion, like vibrations and palpitations, ac-
cording to the liberty which is granted them by the diffeminated vacuities ;
nay,
fome of them do fometimes attempt their efcape, efpecially in porous bodies, which
therefore fooner corrupt and perifh than bodies which are more folid and clofe.
It is yet more evident in living bodies, out of which the animal fpirits, which are
but the bodies of atoms, and moft fubtle corpufcles, are diffipated by tranfpiration,
whence aliment is neceffarily requifite to fupply to the whole body thofe fpirits
which are diffipated by motion and agitation. This motion of atoms, or the
leaft corpufcles, in living bodies, may be defervedly accounted the image of their
firft liberty; and, though they do but feldom enjoy their full liberty, yet they are
apt to raife the greateft commotions in order to be freed, and to gain their liberty.
This is the origin of many diftempers ;
as, in acute fevers, the atoms or corpufcles
ofthe boiling blood, orobftrudled choler, are carried and driven into thebrain, where
they produce watchfulnefs, deliriums, and phrenfies. According to this principle,
that which we faid before may be concluded, That many diftempers arifeJrom mi-
nute corpufcles and emancipated atoms; for thefe, being driven forwards by other
atoms, and forced back, run into the membranes, perioftidm, meninges, or intef-
tines, and caufe the cholic, head-ach, gout, and rheumatifm ;
fo that this folution
of corpufcles and emancipation of atotas in our bodies is much to be dreaded ;
and,
to prevent their danger, all motions of the body which are too violent muft be
avoided ;
for thefe are the external caufe of the confufion of the fpirits and the
emancipation of the atoms.
The emancipation of the atoms, and alfo of the fmall corpufcles which are conl-
pofed of thofe atoms, are to be feen no lefs in the great world than in the little
;
for the winds are nothing lefs than emancipated atoms, which, by their impetuofity
being driven backwards and forwards, force all bodies that ftand in their way :
No. 2. H it
26 A KEY TO PHYSib
it is thefe atoms which agitate the air, and overturn all things which refift their mo-
tion; therefore the motion of atoms is not equal, nor every where alike, but varies
according to the diverfity of bodies whereby they are driven, or as the figures of
them are more or lefs fitted for motion, or otherwife, according to the proportion
of vacuities which are difperfed in bodies ;
fo that fome atoms are moved quicker,
and others flower, not becaufe fome are heavier than others, but becaufe they are
driven backwards or forwards, or are flopped, by 'others which happen to fix
them with greater or lefs violence.
An atom is not a body according to the notion we have, that it is a compound
being ;
but a fimple being, and alfo corporeal ; that is, fimple, becaufe it is'indivifi-
ble; and corporeal, becaufe it hatha certain extenfion, and makes up the compdfi-
tion of bodies, which in the total divifion of them are reduced again into atoms.
Two other difficulties arife from the former opinion : for, if an atom be indivifible,
after what manner can we propofe to ourfelves that it hath extenfion, or how can
it be an ingredient in the compofition of divifible bodies ? To this we anfwer in
few words, that extenfion is according to the nature of the thing extended; for, if
the thing extended be divifible, in the fame manner is the extenfion ;
and fo, on
the other fide, it is of the rational foul, v/hich is poffeffed of the whole body, and ex-
ercifes its operations in all the parts of it; neverthelefs it is, like an atom, indivifi-
ble ;
and, though it be divifible in refpedl of the fpace it occupies, yet it hath an in-
ternal extenfion which is indivifible ;
it is the fame thing which divines are forced to
fay of angels, and fome philofophers about their phyfical tumid points. But fome
will fay, that atoms are neither like fouls, angels, nor phyfical points, becaufe they
have parts, and thefe have none ;
and fince that which confifts of parts is divifible, it
follows alfo that an atom is divifible. To this difficulty I anfwer, with the divines,
that angels and our fouls, which are fpirits—and alfo, with philofophers, that phy-
fical points, which are material—have no real but only potential parts ; that is, an
angel and rational foul in refpe6t of the operations which they exercife and the fpace
which they occupy, and the tumid points in refpe6l of the fpace which they fill up.
Indeed, an angel and the foul have tw'o powers, whereof the one is the intelleft, the
other the will, which, being only an indivifible fubftance, capable of underftanding
and willing, yet no man will deny but they, notwithftanding their indivifibility,
(which at leaft is equal to the indivifibility of an atom,) do fill up a divifible fpace;.
as no man can doubt but that an angel can be at the fame time in the four corners
of the room and in the middle of it, and that it bath a four-fquare figure by com-
munication of the four angles or corners, and that it can quit this and aflume another
figure at its pleafure; w’hich cannot be faid of tumid points and atoms, which are
7 defiitute
27
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES.
deftitute of underftanding and will. The rational foul, being equally indivifible
w ith an atom, angel, or point, doth wholly polTefs a great body, no lefs than it did
when the body was little; therefore it dilates itfelf without being divided, becaufe
in its nature it is fimple and indivifible, and is without diftindl parts. This is the
opinion of Ariftotle, and indeed it is the moft common opinion. But, if the foul
were not by its own fubftance extended through the whole body, and had its feat
only in the heart, as Empedocles would have it ;
or in the fpleen and the ftomach,
as Van Helmont places it; or in the glandiila pinealis of the brain, according to
Cartefius ;
or in the ftriate bodies of the brain where the common fenfe is, or the
fenfe itfelf, as it is called by way of excellency ;
and in the callous parts, becaufe
there it forms the ideas "of things and judges of them ;
and in the cineritious part
of the brain, becaufe there it performs the fundions of the memory, according to
the opinion of Duncan—it is certain that all thefe parts, which are taken to be
the feat of the foul,^ are divifible, and that thay have diftin6l parts and figures:
fo the foul, as it is indivifible, occupies a fpace or place which is divifible ;
whence
I conclude, that indivifibility does not hinder but that a fubftance may have a
certain indivifible extenfion, but divifible as to the place which it poffefles, or
that it may have angles and figure in refpe6l of place, though its fubftance effen-
tially remain one, ftmple, and indivifible.
Hence it follows that there is one catholic or univerfal matter, called corpuf-
cles or atoms, filling all fpace, which is an extended, impenetrable, and divifible,
fubftance, common to all bodies, and capable of all forms ;
infinitely harder than any
of the fenfible porous bodies compounded of them ;
even fo hard, as never to wear,
or break in pieces ;
no other power being able to divide what God made one in the
firft creation. While thefe corpufcles remain entire, they may compofe bodies of
one and the fame nature and texture in all ages ;
'but, ftiould they wear away or
break in pieces,, the nature of things depending on them would be changed. Wa-
ter and earth, compofed of old worn particles and fragments of particles, would not
be of the fame nature and texture now with water and earth compofed of entire par-
ticles at the beginning; and therefore, that nature may be lafting, the changes of
corporeal things are only to be placed in the various feparations and new aftbciations
of thefe permanent corpufcles ;
that, in order to form the vaft variety of natural
bodies, this matter miift have motion in all its aflignable parts, and aQ; in all man-
ner of dire6lions and tendencies. Thefe corpufcles have therefore not only a vis
inertics, accompanied with fuch paflive laws of motion as naturally refult from that
force ;
but alfo are moved by certain a6five principles, fuch as that ot gravity, and
^at which caufes fermentation, and the cohefion and fympathy of bodies. That'
this
X
28 A KEY TO PHYSIC
this matter muft alfo be a6iually divided into parts, and each of thefe primitive par-
ticles, fragments, or atoms of matter, muft have their proper magnitude, figure,
and ftiape; and muft have different orders, pofitions, lituations, and poftures,
whence all the varieties of compound bodies arife. This view of the firft principles
of matter accounts for an infinity of phenomena, otherwife inexplicable ; and
points out all the occult operations in nature, by fyrnpathy, antipathy, fafcination,
cohefion, coagulation, diffolution, &c. for, fince thefe corpufcles are every-where
and at all times in motion, ilfuing from and cohering to all bodies that fall in their
way ;
and fince they are operated upon and diverfly altered by the four elements
proper to this world ;
and thefe elements again by rays of light, heat, and influx of
the anima mundi, and celeftial bodies—all the viciflitudes of nature are deduced
from them ;
and, according to the qualities and temperature of the matter fo formed,
and of thofe they come in contadl with, are the affedlions of the mind, the fundlions
of the body, the paflion of love, and a thoufand inexplicable circumftances attend-
ant on human affairs, regulated and 'governed; as we ftiall now proceed to fhow.
Of sympathy and ANTIPATHY in NATURAL BODIES.
THE wonderful effedls we fee in nature, whofe true and efficient caufes are not
eafily found out, obliged philofophers heretofore to have recourfe to occult caufes,
and to attribute all thofe effedls to natural fyrnpathy and antipathy, which happen
,
amongft the feveral bodies whereof the world is compounded.
That we may the better underftand what may be faid upon a fubjedt fo nice and
delicate, and give a reafon for thofe wonderful effedfs which are attributed to fympa-
thy and antipathy, in the firft place we muft fuppofe, that the difficulty which oc-
curs in explaining an effedl of this nature, is becaufe the mind is not able to know
the truth of things but by the fenfes, which are the gates through which the objedts
enter, and form their ideas in our underftanding; but, becaufe there are an abun-
dance of things that efcape our fenfes, it is no wonder that it is fo hard to give a
reafon for thofe caufes which are fo remote from our view ; as for example, iron
moves itfelf, and that by way of local motion, and joins itfelf to the loadftone; we
do not fee that which draws the iron to it, though we fee it attradled; and therefore,
that we may give a folid reafon for this and other phenomena of the like nature, we
declare, according to our philofophy, that there are no bodies but what continually
omit certain fubtle particles and imperceptiblecorpufcleswhicharedifperfed through
the air, and are fometimes carried to a great diftance, unlefs they are furrounded
by other bodies in their way. By this principle we find the reafon why a dog follow%
the
'r
r
‘
’
'J
/.
•5-
5
t,
>
f:*''
V-
liijr.
,
-'
3.
&
/
v;-v):
!*’
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 2:9
the footftep of the bare, or from a heap of a thoiifand floiiesy he readily knows the
ftone his mailer threw, and picks it out, and by his command brings it to him ;
from
this difperfion of corpufcles, we find the reafon how the contagion of the plague,
either from the perfon infe6ted, or from the wind blowing from that region, is car-
ried a great way off; and hence appears the reafon why wounds may be cured at
a hundred miles diftance by means of the fympathetic powder, the aftonilliing
properties of which are fully defcribed in my Illuftration of the Occult Sciences
;
fo likewife of the fermentation of Canary wine brought into England, which fer-
ments here at the very time of the vintage there.
We muft fuppose, farther, that thefe fmall corpufcles differ in figure and mag-
nitude, and are not equally received by this or that body ;
fo one man is infedled
by the plague in the fame place where many others efcape ;
for the fame reafon
the beams of the fun melt wax, but not lead unlefs they are collected and united
by the help of a burning lens, or the like ;
and the heat of fire melts metals in a
very different manner.
Again, the palm-tree of the male kind is barren unlefs the female be planted near
it ;
and, if feparated by a river, they lean to each other as if they would embrace.
If you flrike the firing of a lute in one corner of a room, it lhall caufe the firing
of another lute, tuned to the fame pitch, and placed in an oppdfite corner, to give
a found ;
the cock alwaj's crows and claps his wings at the moment the fun afcends
the horizon. All effects which we fee from fympathy afford us matter of admi-
ration; but the loadftone demonfirates the affinity of corpufcles more palpably to
our fenfes than mofi other experiments. The loadfione is found in iron-mines,
and is not much different from the nature of iron; wherefore the particles which
proceed from the loadfione have a kind of agreement with the pores of iron ;
and
thefe fmall corpufcles, going out of the loadfione, and meeting with the iron in their
way, ^ufh into the pores of it; but, becaufe all cannot enter at once, a great many re-
main without, and thefe are as firongly beaten back by the particles of the iron which
they mSet with as if they were of the number of thofe corpufcles, which, being at
liberty, return of their own accord, and at length fend thefe by a refleifiive motion to
theloadfione, from whence they firfi came. Hence it is that the iron is drawn towards
the loadfione, principally by the agitation of thofe minute magnetic corpufcles moved
in the concavities of the iron; and, being fiiaken together by the fundry motion of
thofe corpufcles which are twified one within another, thofe corpufcles which re-
turn by reflexion are complicated and annexed to thofe which are in the pores of
the iron, and cannot be returned or moved towards the loadfione, unlefs they draw
along with them thofe corpufcles to which they are annexed, and which cannot fol-
No. 3. I low
30 A KEY TO PHYSIC
low unlefs by their motion the iron-be carried with them; fo the iron follows and is
moved toward the loadftone, except the iron be bigger than the loadftone; for then
the corpufcles which proceed from the loadftone are not fo many, nor by confequence
fo powerful, as to draw the iron. The reafon the loadftone draws no other body
but iron, is becaufe other bodies do not return the atoms, neither are their pores well
fitted for thofe magnetic corpufcles. By the fame reafon it appears, that the load-
ftone does not approach to the iron, but the iron to the loadftone. It may be faid
that hard and folid bodies, fuch as iron, cannot emit fuch a great number of cor-
pufcles as other bodies, which, like the loadftone, are lefs folid and more porous.
There may be a. reafon given alfo why the loadftone, being rubbed with garlic or
oil, does not fo eafily draw iron to it; which is, that thefe ftrange corpufcles, by
their oilinefs, hinder the cmiffion of the corpufcles out of the loadftone, and alfo
their entrance into the pores of the iron, and thus break their elaftic force.
We may obferve many other effedls of the loadftone : as for example, that iron
put upon a table is moved by the virtue of this ftone placed under the table ;
for it
is certain that the corpufcles of the loadftone which moves the iron penetrate through
the vacuity or pores of the table, as it by fmall and invifible threads it had been tied
to the loadftone. It is the fame thing if the table be of marble or glafs, provided
it be not greafy nor too thick ;
which proves the porofity of bodies in general. An-
other eftedt of the loadftone is feen in a needle, which, being touched by it, always
turns towards the north pole; the reafon is, becaufe there are mountains of load-
ftones under the poles, difperfing their attradtive fpirits through the univerfe, fpirits
which are entangled with thofe which adhere to the magnetical needle, whofe force
is leftened as the fpirits of it are diffipated ; efpecially if the compafs be fet in a
place where there are pieces of iron to which the fpifrits ftick, and leave the needle,
which had taken no greater quantity of them than what was requifite according to
its capacity. But the moft wonderful property in this ftone is, that it draws iron
on one fide, and rejedts it on the other; fo that it appears in every loadftone that
there are two poles of the world, the north pole attradls iron, thefouth pole repels
it ;
becaufe the fpirit of the north pole enters in at the pores of the iron, but the fouth-
erncannot, for it ftrikesagainft the iron, and drives back too much its elaftic particles.
This explication prefuppofes the being of fpirits and qtoms, and their figures and
motions, as alfo fmall occult vacuities, which are difperfed through all bodies.
There are obferved to be many effedls for which no reafon can be given, without
the help of the word antipathy. We will inftance fome few ; and, firft, of the bafi-
lifk, who kills all whom he fees, which is by the antipathy fubfifting betwixt it and
-other animals ;
but this is rather done by the emiffion of certain venomous fpirits,
which
. AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES, 31
which penetrate the eyes of thofe feen by the bafililk; the nature of this poifon can-
not be explained, unlefs we know the occult property of poifon, becaufe poifon
kills only by a contrariety betwixt us and it ;
whence Sve difcover the principle of
this contrariety of the bafililk, that the fpirits iffuing out of the pores of its eyes kill
thofe animals which they meet with, becaufe the fpirits penetrate them by their fub
tilty, or lharp figure, like needles piercing the heart. The poifon of vipers, and
fuch like, is not fo acute nor fo deadly, nor fo ready in its effedts, as that of the ba-
fililk. In reference to this matter, there are many things that are worth confidering.
In the firft place, it is certain that the bafililk is not engendered but in moifi; deep
places, as in the bottom of pits w'here there is nothing but muddy, thick, ftinking,
water. In the fecond place, it is to be obferved, that if you take a glafs, and hold
it againft: the bafilifk’s eyes, thofe fpirits which ilfue from his eyes refledling upon the
glafs are font back from whence they came, and will kill the bafiliflc. Now it cannot
be faid that the bafiliflc hates itfelf ;
but that the venomous fpirits, refledling from
the glafs, receive a more violent motion, and forcibly drive back the other fpirits
w'hich are iffuing from his eyes, fo that they penetrate his brain and heart, and
thence occafion his death; in the fame manner as vapours often arife with fo great
violence from the hypochondria, the mefentery, and the ftomach, into the head, that
they caufe an apoplexy, epileptic dizzinefs, or lethargy; and fometimes they are
carried with fuch fubtilty and violence into the heart, that the perfons fo aftiidled
die fuddenly.
A ftrange antipathy fubfitls in fome vegetables, as between the colew'ort and the
vine, which, if planted near together, will irifsnfibly give back and lean fideAvays,
as if they really hated one another. This effect cannot be afcribed to any thing but
the emiffion of the corpufcles and material fpirits of both of them, which rufli upon
one another, and mutually repel, by the irregularity of their figures. This is appa-
rent in the juice of coleworts, which if taken by a man when he is drunk, he pre-
fently comes to himfelf and is fober ;
becaufe the corpufcles of the juice of coleworts
blunt the corpufcles of the juice of the vine._ In the fame manner, we find by ex-
perience, thatfpirit of opium or laudanum cures the cholic, head-ach, tooth-ach, and
other kinds of pains ;
it alfo cures the phrenfy, and procures fleep. But there is
need of the greateft care in ufing thefe narcotic medicines, becaufe it often happens
that the vital fpirits are fo ftupified by them, that they are deprived of their motion,
which caufes a deadly fleep. The colew'ort and the vine have not fo pow'erful an
effedt on each other as narcotic medicines have on the animal fpirits; for neither
the vine nor the colew^rt will lean Tideways if there be cloth or paper fet betwixt
them, becaufe the corpufcles flowing from each are then flopped in their w'ay.
A third
: A 1CEY TO PHYSIC
A third efFedt, ^vhich is afcJribed to antipathy, is-objferved in the ufe of medicines,
as well internal as external. ;
the external, of which we flow fpeak, are thofe we
carry about us, w>hich by their quality take away themalign air, and preferve us from
the plague and other contagions; as prepared quickfilver, or a toad dried and fliut
up in a box. This phenomenon is afcribed to the peftiferous fpirits or corpufcles,
which, approaching towards us, find fubjedls more apt for their reception, and fix in
them, but not in us, at leaft in fuch a quantity as to hurt us ;
which moft evidently
appears in this, that the prepared quickfilver, or the toad, being once filled with
thefe contagious atoms, becomes ufelefs, and ought to be changed and renewed;
and I know by experience that quickfilver, prepared white and fliining like an adar
mant, or poliflied filver, being carried about a perfon who is frequently with fick
people, in time becomes black, fo that afterwards it is ufelefs to him who carries
it, becaufe there are no fmall vacuities left to retain the airy poifons ;
but it may
be renewed by another preparation, whereby it may be made as white, tranfparent,
and ufeful, as before. Quickfilver turns black, more or lefs, fooner or later, ac-
cording to the proportion of the greater or lefs malignity in the air where the per-
fon goes who carries it about him. And thefe antidotes can never hurt ; nay, if
rightly prepared, they not only withftand the contagious air, when they hinder its
nearer approach towards us, but alfo fupprefs inward vapours, which, afcending
into the head, occafion many diflerapers. Thefe confequences, properly fpeaking,
are the joint effects of fympathy and antipathy adting toge;her; for the animal efflu-
via or corpufcles ifluing from our bodies repel as much as poffible the malignity
of the ambient matter, by antipathy; whilfi bodies compofed of poifonous or nox-
ious particles, draw to themfelves, by fympathy, the foul or poifonous atoms which
furround them. Juft the fame as the loadftone draws iron. In this w'e fee, and fliall
hereafter prove, that amulets or charms, worn about the body ;
that eledlricity,
animal magnetifm, and other occult properties, adting upon our bodies ;
though
attributed to witchcraft, or fome inexplicable caufe, are nothing more than the
natural effedts of fympathy and antipathy, pre-ordained at the beginning of all
things. Aromatic herbs and fvveet-fmelling flowers, ufed againft infedtious air, adt
by repulfion, or antipathy ;
whereas nightfliade, hemlock, and all poifonous herbs,
adl by fympathy, drarving into their pores the infedtious atoms, juft the fame as
horfe-radiffi drawls in vinegar ;
and hence it follows that both thefe clafles of plants
are ufeful in preferving the animal juices from infedtion,
I now proceed to effedts internal. Rhubarb, and the leaves of fenna, purge
melancholy; jalap and diagridium, phlegm and watery humours. It is a conftant
and certain truth, that every purgative medicine comprehends in it certain fpirits
or
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES, 33
or corpufcles which are venomous, that is, acute, pungent, and biting ;
so that,
nature being ftirred up by them, and thereby the internal parts and membranes
being touched and agitated, the animal fpirits rufli together in order to affift the
part afFe 61ed, and draw with them the foreign humours which are less fixed ; and
then nature, by the help of thefe fpirits, expels them by the proper palfages : fo
that, after a purgation by rhubarb, the urine is yellow, but, after fenna or cafiia, it
is dark and high-coloured.
Thus fympathy and antipathy exifi; in all fubftances, whether animal, vegetable,
or mineral ;
and things of one clafs have affinity or correfpondence wdth things of
another clafs, or contrariwife, according to the nature and quality of the atoms or
corpufcles whereof they are formed. Hence it is that fo ftrong a fympathy exifts
between rue and the fig-tree ;
and that the elm rejoiceth to cohabit with the vine :
and hence it is likewife that ferpents preferve their fight by fennel ;
and that the
hind draws out the piercing dart with dittany, or garden-ginger. Hence also, by
antipathy, water and oil, and wine and the juice of hemlock, repel each other ;
as
do the vine and bralfic plants; for the vine, which ufually entwines round every
thing it is near, fhuns and inclines another way from thefe. Rue, and the afii-
tree, are fo inimical to ferpents, that they cannot exift under their branches ;
and
the herb polypody is fo obnoxious to crabs, that, if they are covered over with its
leaves, they will in a fiiort time cajft off their fiiell and claws.
From an inveftigation of thefe properties in nature, medicine and the art of
healing were firft difcovered. All things temperate in quality concord fympathe-
tically with our bodies ; as fweet marjoram and nutmeg to the head, and wormwood
to the belly. Those which exceed this medium in their temperaments are noxious
and hurtful ;
and are the more dangerous or deadly, in proportion as they recede
from the temperate quality, which we perceive in opium, arfenic, and the like.
From this caufe, we likewife find that fympathy and fimilitude are fynonymous; and
that all fubftances which have refemblance by fignature, have fympathy and agree-
ment by nature, and ferve for the confervation of each other. Thus fulphur is found
to preferve wine, which hath great analogy w ith our blood ; and, if wood, or cables,
or any thing whofe life is in the water, be done over with a preparation of the oil
of fulphur, they will be preferved, in a moft fingular and remarkable manner,
from injury or decay. From hence Paracelfus concludes, that the particles of
fulphur are of themfelves a balfam, fufficient to prevent wine or any inanimate fub-
ftance from putrefaction; and fo conferves the body, that no adverfe qualities can
prejudice or affed it. Querintius, in his Pharmacy, affures us, that fulphur rightly
prepared is the true balfam of the lungs, and the principal ingredient ufed by the
K ancient
34 A KEY TO PHYSIC
ancient Egyptians to embalm their mummies, or bodies of their deceafed nobles,
whereby they are preferved even to this day from putrefa6lion, as may be feen in
the Britifh Mufeum, and in moft other magazines of curiofities. Sulphur is cer-
tainly the efficient caufe of all mineral fprings ;
of all cryftallizations, ftones, peb-
bles, &c. by which they concrete, and are held together, as is evident from ftriking
them againft deel, the fparks of fire produced being the fulphurous or inflammable
part. All volcanos, burning mountains, and fubterraneous fires, are occafioned
by fulphur ;
as are likewife earthquakes, thunder and lightning, meteors. Sic. The
adlive properties of fulphur are indeed wonderful ;
and, were I to inftance many that
I have difcovered in the various chemical preparations I have made of it, few of my
readers would be difpofed to give me credit. For ten fucceffive years I applied my-
felf to the daily toil of making chemical experiments; and there is fcarcely an herb
or a mineral fubftance to be found, that I have not paffed through the retort, or the
crucible, in order to afcertain their native qualities, and power of adtion, previous
to the invention of my Solar and Lunar Tindtures ;
and I mud confefs that the occult
properties of fulphur cod me more labour to fix, to invedigate, and to afcertain,
than all things elfe together, except mercury. And I do in confequence affirm, that
there are no mineral fubdances in the bow'els of the earth, whofe virtues are not
communicated to plants and herbs growing on the earth’s furface ;
and that the
correfpondent virtues found in thefe herbs are infinitely more pure, innocent, bal-
famic, nutritive, and better adapted to medicine, than any grofs or earthy particles
whatever. Even from the common herb borage, we can extradl nitre, fea-falt,
tartarum vitriolatum, and the common fixed alkali ;
and it is no trivial informa-
tion to the medical w’orld, to know, that the three mineral acids are all to be found
in one humble plant. Indeed vegetables appear to be the medium contrived by an
all-wife and omnipotent Creator, for feledling, concofting, and combining, the me-
dical and occult virtues of the difl'erent fubdances found in the bowels of the earth,
and for adapting their virtues, by an eafy and natural conco6lion, to the alleviation
of human infirmities; according to that padage in fcripture which fays, that the Lord
hath caufed medicines togroxo out ofthe earth, and he that iszvife zvill not abhor them,
for until fuch doth he heal men, and taketh away their pains. Eccl. xxxviii. 4, 7.
Whence I conclude, that all diforders incident to mankind are to be cured, pre-
ferably and more elegantly, more fafely and certainly, by preparations from me-
dical plants and herbs, than from any mineral fubdances whatever ;
and that mer-
cury, for the hies uenerea, for the fcrophula, and impurities of the blood, ought to
be wholly expunged from our pradlice. Its baneful effiedts are every day more or
lefs experienced, in the rotten bones and ruined conftitutions of thofe who have
habitually
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 35
habitually taken it in advertifed noftrums for “ a certain complaint,” until it has
fixed itfelf, and the difeafe likewife, fo ftrongly in the habit, as to be almoft beyond
the reach of a proper remedy, which in reality and truth can only be found in the
vegetable world.
Vegetables bear relation to thefeven planets, and have form and affinity with the
microcofm, or parts of man ;
and conftitute the original aliment intended by the
Creator for the fuftenance of our bodies. And whatever fignature or fimilitude a
plant has with any member or part of our body, it will promote a cure in that
part, and tend fympathetically to its comfort and prefervation. For example, thofe
herbs which in any refpedt refemble the form of the eyes, are falubrious and heal-
ing to the eyes ;
as eyebright, fcabious, marigold, chamelion, fempervivum, nar-
dum, and ftar-wort. So plants which refemble the head are cephalic, and help the
diforders and infirmities thereof ;
the walnut refembles the brain, fo that, if the oil
or fpirit of the nut be applied to the head, it ftrengthens the fibres and comforts the
brain. .
Maindenhair and the mofs of quinces have the figure of the hair of our head
;
and a decodlion of thefe herbs, in reftoring hair loti; by the lues venerea, is wonder-
fully efficacious. So plants, which in root, leaves, or fruit, refemble the figure of
the heart, have a power of comforting and fuftaining the heart: as the citron-apple,
fuller’s thiftle, fpikenard, mint, balm, white-beet, trefoil, and mother-wort. Herbs
which refemble the lungs promote refpiration, and ftrengthen the lungs; as hoimds-
tongue, lung-wort, fage, camphor, wall-wort, &c. Plants which refemble the
ears conduce much to the relief of all diforders of the ears ; as fools-foot, or wild
fpikenard, which are a fpecific for deafnefs ;
and fo an oil extradled from the
ihell of fea-fnails, which refembles the ear, has been found of wonderful efficacy in
reftoring the faculty of hearing, even after feveral years deafnefs. The fenfe of
fmelling is greatly promoted by the application of thofe herbs which refemble the
nofe, as water-mint, &c. So plants that bear refemblance with the womb, conduce
much to ftrengthen and comfort the fame, to purge the uterus, and promote fecun-
dity ; as the round birth-wort, briony, ladies-feal, heart-w'ort, fatyrium, and man-
drakes, which have round and hollow roots. Plants which bear fimilitude with
the gall and bladder contribute to the benefit of thofe parts, by breaking the ftone,
ftrengthening the urinary paftages, and bringing away the gravel ; as particularly
pointed out in my edition of Culpeper’s Herbal. So likewife herbs and roots
which bear affinity with the generative parts contribute much to their virility,
ftrength, and vigour; and truffles, potatoes, and the capfules of the cafhew-tree,
which have fimilitude with the tefticles, wonderfully ftir up and promote the fe-
men ; as do the parfnip, the root of rag-wort, and the mangel wurzel, or root of
fcarcity.
36 A KEY TO PHYSIC
fcarcity, contribute much to (limuiate the virile member. Herbs having forma-
tion like the milt, nouriili and preferve the fame, fuch as fpleen-wort, milt-wort,
lupines, and ivy. Plants which in leaves or roots bear fignature with the liver, do
wonderfully concur to promote a good digeftion and concodlion of the blood, to
prevent the liver from decay, and to heal and cure all infirmities thereof; fuch vir-
tue has the herb trinity, agaric, liver-wort, fumitory, lent-figs, &c. Herbs and
feeds refembling the teeth confer much to the good and prefervation of them; as
tooth-wort, the pine-kernel, and the feeds of hemlock. Thofe plants which have
refemblance with the knuckles and joints of the body, are wonderfully efficacious
againfi; the gout, white fwellings, and all pains whatever in the joints; fuch as ga-
lingal and knotty odoriferous ruflies, &c. Plants and herbs expreffing a natural
fatnefs or oilinefs increafe corpulency, or fatnefs of the body ;
as all pulfe, almonds,
and kernels of every kind ;
and, by the fame rule, thofe vegetables which have a
lean and fpare defignation, macerate and reduce the body, fuch as farfaparilla, long-
leafed rofa-folis. See. Nervous or ftringy plants fupple and fortify the nerves and
finews; as fennel, flax, hemp, the nettle, the herb neuras, and the root of mallows.
Vegetables pofleffing a milky juice propagate milk in all female animals ;
and thofe
ixifreffing a ferous quality purge the noxious humours between the flefli and fkin,
as fperage, fcammony, and the like. Plants that are hollow, as the flalks of corn,
reeds, leeks, mallows, hollyocks, garlic, and buglofs, are Angularly good to purge,
open, and comfort, the porous and hollow organs of the body, St. John’s wort,
having its leaves perforated, is fanative to wounds; and palma Chrifli, having in
its root a ftrong refemblance of the hands and'fingers, is remarkably healing to all
cuts, burns, fcalds, and injuries, thereof
I here is another fimilitude found between fome vegetables and the brute fpecies,
which diredls us to a very curious occult virtue, in curing hurts or injuries received
from thofe creatures they bear affinity with. Thus, the herb dragon, which in form
refembles a fnake, and the bramble called Chrifl’s-thorn, having its thorns fet like
the teeth of ferpents, are an abfolute cure for the bite of thofe animals. Ragwort,
which is like a bee, is the beft cure for the fting of bees. Fleabane, which grows
as if covered with vermin, caufeth all fleas to avoid the room, Scorpion-grafs,
dart-wort, and the flowers of turnfol, having fimilitude with the tail of a fcorpion,
have furprifing efficacy in curing hurts by ail venomous creatures.
The properties and virtues of plants are alfo known by the analogy of their form ;
thofe of the fame or like figure having the fame or like virtues and ufes. Thus the
umbelliferous tribe have all a carminative tafie, or fmell, and are confequently pow-
erfrd expellers of wind, and good in all flatulent diforders. The galeate or verticil-
late
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES , 37
late kind are all of them a degree warmer, and more potent, and therefore may be
reputed aromatic, and proper for nervous diforders. The tetrapetalous kind are
hot and biting, and exert their power by means of a diuretic volatile fait with
which they abound; and are therefore good in chronical difeafes, obftru6tions,
cacochymias, &c.
The colours of plants and herbs likewife bear fimilitude or fympathy, and diredt
us to a knowledge of their temperature and ufe ;
thofe of a light colour, fuch as
briony and water-lily, are profitable for the cure of phlegmatic difeafes. Thofe of
a yellow afpedl purge choler, and remove obftrudlions occafioned thereby; as is
the effea of rhubarb, celandine, &c. Thofe of a fanguine hue purify the blood and
juices, and contribute greatly to a good complexion; as the root of fern brake, agri-
mony, germander, and forrel. And this rule is to be obferved with refpedl to
plants in general ;
that fo many diftindt colours as it hath commixed, fo many vir-
tues will it poffefs ;
and whatever difeafe it bears analogy or fympathy with, that
difeafe it will cure. The flower of the water-lily, bearing'the flgnature of a drop
of water, is a prefervative againft the apoplexy. The rpot of lalTafras, and the
ftones of cherric'-s, are good againft the flone and gravel in the bladder and kidneys.
The feeds of marigolds have refemblance with the canker, and are a certain cure
for that complaint. All plants of a glutinous nature, having their ftalks fignated
with cuts and ftabs, are fanative to cuts, fears, and wounds. The root of galangale
growing in marfhy grounds, and taken up in May or June, and w^orn as an amulet
againft the belly, will perform moft aftoniftiing cures in the dyfentery and flux; it
has a fl;rong refemblance to the natural excrements, both in figure and colour.
All the excrefcences of trees arifing above the branches, are good againft excref-
cences of the arteries. The ftrawberry very much refembles the puftules of the
leprofy ;
and the diftilled water of ftrawberries is a moft admirable cure for that
complaint, as w'ell as for red and pimpled faces.
We may further remark, that the more fignatures or fimilitudes are found co-
hering in a plant to one and the fame fignification, fo much the more powerful and
efficacious will its operation be, in any of the purpofes for which it is applied ;
for
the fpirit is in quality the fame in all bodies, but different in quantity, which con-
ftitutes that variety or difference perceivable by our fenfes. In fome bodies this
fpirit is more copious and adtive ; in others, more fparing and debilitated ;
fo that,
by how much the more the fame fpirit produces a convenient form and figure in
divers things or fubjedls under the fame climate, by fo much the more the fame
fubjedls are enabled tofympathize with, and affift, each other. For fympathy is by
the fpirit; and fimilitude points out the things that adt by fympathy. Hence it
No. 3. L is
38 A KEY TO PHYSIC
is that fimilitude of affe6lion increafes ftrength, and the contrary, hatred. So it
is that plants whofe parts refemble the fcorpion, as libards-bane, hellebore, and
aconitum, will cure the bite of that reptile; and that the flowers of plants, having
the refemblance of butterflies, conduce to fruitfulnefs and virility, as gandergoofe,
the flower of beans, woodbine, and ragwort. Plants fpotted like ferpents, as cow-
garlic, wake-robin, dragon-wort, fea-dragon, &c. are fanative again flthe bite of
ferpents ;
and plants which refemble the head of fuch animals are alfo good againft
their poifon ;
as the flowers of wild buglofs, which refemble the head of a viper,
Diofcorides affirms to be a certain cure.
The virtues of plants and herbs are, however, variable, and liable to be injured
by change of climate, which will alter or deflroy them, as we fee in many of the
medical plants of other countries brought into England ;
which, though they feem
to flourifli with us, never poflefs their virtues in the fame excellent degree as in
their own climate, which is the reafon that Culpeper recommends Englijh herbs
for an Etiglijh conftitution. The bodies of different animals alfo render the effeft
of the fame plant different ;
thus the tythmels, or fpurges, are all very violent ca-
thartics when taken by us ;
but they are eaten by goats and feveral other animals,
without any purgative effe6l, and feem to give them a particular fliare of vigour
and fpirits. Fiflies, on the contrary, are more ftrongly affe6ted by them than we
are ;
for the juice of fpurge, made into a pafte with flour and honey, will fo much
intoxicate them, that they may be taken out of the water with one’s hand. Again,
bitter almonds are of no ill-confequence to us, while they kill all forts of birds that
touch them. The Buceros, or hornbill, feeds upon ihenux vomicay which is known
to be a moft deadly poifon to man and all quadrupeds and fifhes. This is a late
difcovery. See my Syftem of Nat. Hift. vol. viii, p. 153. and Encyclopcedia
Londinensis, vol. iii. p. 478.
The foregoing notions may be ridiculed, from their extreme fimplicity ;
yet
where is the man, at all converfant with natural philofophy and phyfic, and poffefled
of an impartial mind, that will dare to controvert thefe fafts? Every wayfaring man
knows fomething of the herbs I have mentioned, and is capable of judging of their
fimilitude and fympathy. Let him apply them for the purpofes I have pointed out,
and their occult properties will foon be vifible to his fenfes. The track of nature
is a plain and obvious road, abounding with moft pleafmg profpefts, and the fureft
guides. God, in the plenitude of his omnifcience and mercy, feems to have fet a
mark on the minuteft particles of his creation, for man’s information and benefit
;
in the contemplation of which, our happinefs, as well as our health, will invariably
be found.
Of
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 39
Of the OCCULT PROPERTIES of GENERATION
IN PLANTS AND HERBS.
ALL plants are produced from feeds, as all animals are produced from eggs ;
and
the procefs of nature is very fimilarin both kinds of generation. The fmalleft ve-
getables have feeds, though often not difcoverable by the naked eye. Miftletoe is
known to be produced from feed ;
and the feffile and flat fungufes, which fome
confider as morbid excrefcences, are true fpecies of thofe agarics which are fur-
niflied with caps and fterns, and grow on the ground, whofe feeds, falling on a
moift tree, produce, as it were, half-caps without fterns. Befides, that feeds are
the eggs of plants appears from hence, that, as every egg produces an offspring
fimilar to the parent, fo do alfo the feeds of vegetables ; and therefore they alfo
are eggs. A feed refembles the egg of an hen ;
as this, as well as the egg, has a
Ihell, external membrane or film, a membrane including the yolk, the yolk itfelf,
and the fear, or point of life. In feeds, the white is wanting, becaufe the moifture
of the earth fupplies its place, and nourifhes the embryo of the plant. When the
flower is going off, the feed begins to fwell, and on the outfide there appears a ve-
ficle, which is the amnion, furniftied with an umbilical chord, or navel-ftring, which
is introduced through the chorion to the oppofite fide of the egg. While with the
egg the amnion increafes, on its top is obferved another fmall body, which like-
wife increafes continually, till it has filled the whole chorion and egg ; and the
amnion and chorion are turned into the external fliell or coat of the feed. Thus, as
the fame changes are brought about on the feed as in the egg, the feeds muft be the
eggs of plants. Farther, that plants fpring from eggs, is plain from the lobes,
which, when we fpeak of cows and fimilar quadrupeds, are nothing elfe than fe-
veral fecundines, always adhering to the foetus, drawing their fupply or fluids from
the matrix, which fluids they prepare for the nourifhment of the tender foetus.
That moft plants have feminal leaves, or lobes, is very well known. Thefe feminal
leaves once conftituted the whole feed, except the hilum, or little heart, in which
is the point of life ;
and thefe lobes prepare the nourifhment for the very tender
plant, until it be able to ftrike root in the earth; in the fame manner as the yolk
in an egg, becoming the placenta, prepares the nourifhment, and fends it by the
navel-ftring to the chick ;
after which they drop off. Hence it appears, that the
feminal leaves are the lobes ; but, fince all lobes proceed from the egg or feed, we
may fairly conclude that plants are produced from eggs. But, as no egg can pro-
duce an animal till it be impregnated or fecundated by the male, it will be necef-
fary to inveftigate the fituation of the genital organs deftined by nature for this
purpofe in plants.
It
40 A KEY TO PHYSIC '
It is plain that the genital organs of plants muft be fituated where the feeds are
produced ;
now the feeds are produced where the flower and fruit are ; therefore in
the flower and fruit are the genital organs of plants. And, as there was never a clear
and evident example produced of any plant which wanted flowers and fruit, though
they might not be diftindtly known on account of their exceeding minutenefs, we
may juftly fay, that the effence of plants confifts in their fructification. More-
over, as generation precedes the birth in animals, the flower in plants always pre-
cedes the fruit ; and, therefore, we are necelfarily led to afcribe fecundation to the
flower, and the birth or exclufion of the feed to the ripe fruit. The flower may,
confequently, be defined to be the genital organs of a plant, ferving for fecunda-
tion, and the fruit to be the genital organs ferving for the birth or maturation of
the feed. And, fince we know that there are many plants, fome of which want the
calyx, others the corolla, others the filaments of a {lamina, and others the ilyle .
but that all flowers, the mofles only excepted, are furniflied with the aritherce, or
ftigmata, or both together ;
thefe parts mufl conilitute the effence of the flower.
If we find a flower with antheras, but no ftigmata, we may alfo affuredly find ano-
ther flower, either in the fame or a different plant of the fame fpecies, which has
ftigmata with the antherae, or without them. The aCl of fecundation is performed
in the flower ;
and therefore the genital organs of both fexes muft be prefent in
the flower; not indeed always in one and the fame flower; but it is fufficient that
thofe of the male be in one flower, and thofe of the female in another ; and thefe
genital organs are the antheras and ftigmata. The antherae, or male organs of ge-
neration in flowers, are nothing elfe but the bodies which prepare and contain the
male fperm ;
therefore thefe antherae are the tefticles together with the feminal ve-
ficles, and their duft the genuine male fperm of plants, anfwering to thofe par-
ticles which are called animalcules in the male fperm of animals. The propofi-
tion may be evinced by the following arguments : the antherae and the duft always
come before the fruit; and when they ilied their duft, which they do before the
flower has attained its full vigour, they have performed their office, and then drop
and become ufelefs. Befidcs, the antherae are fo fituated in the flower, that their
duft, which is the male fperm, may reach the piftil or female organs ; for the (la-
mina either furround. the piftil, as moil flowers, or, if the piftil incline to the up-
per fide of the flower, the ftamina do the fame; or, if the piftil nods, the (lamina
afeend.
Farther, the antherae and ftigmata are in full vigour at the fame time, both
when they are in the fame flower, and when they are in feparate flowers. More-
over, if w'e cut afunder the antherae before they have (lied their duft, their ftruc-
ture will be found altogether as wonderful and curious as that of the feed-
veffels
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 41
veffels themfelves ;
for, within, they conlift of one, two, three or four, cells ;
and they open either longitudinally or at the bafe, feparating into pieces or
valves, or from the top, or at the two points or horns. And, if we cut off the
antheras of any plant which bears but one flower, taking care at the fame time
that no other plant of the fame fpecies is near it, the fruit proves abortive, or at
leaf! produces feeds which will not vegetate. Finally, the figure of the fertilizing
duft will clearly convince any one, that this fine powder is not accumulated by
chance, or from the drynefs of the antherag.
The powder of the antherae, in point of fecundation, anfwers to the animalcules
in the male fperm ;
and the lligma which receives this duft is always moiftifli,
that the duft may inftantly adhere or ftick to it. That the ftigmata, which are
the other effential parts of the flower, are the female organs of generation, may be
proved by the following confiderations : The parts of the piftillum are the ger-
men, the ftyle, and the ftigma ; the germen, or feed-bud, while the plant is in
flower, is always imperfedl and immature, being only the rudiment of the future
foetus ; the ftyle is no effential part, for it is wanting in many fpecies of plants;
but the germen can never bring the fruit to maturity, except it be within the
flower along with the ftigma. Hence it follows, that the ftigma is that part of the
flower which receives the impregnating duft. This will farther appear, if we
confider that the ftigma is always fo fituated, that the antherae, or their impregnating
duft, can reach it ; moreover, it has always a figure peculiar to itfelf, fo that in
moft (though not all) plants it is double when the fruit confifts of two cells, triple
when the feed-veffel has three cells, quadruple when it has four cells, &c. Again,
the ftigmata are always in full vigour at the fame time with the antherae : befides,
the ftigmata in moft plants, when they have difcharged their office, drop off in the
fame manner as the antherae do ;
w'hich proves, that the ftigmata contribute
nothing to the ripening of the fruit, but ferve only for the purpofe of genera-
tion. If the ftigmata be cut off before they have received the impregnating duft
of the antherae, the plant is caftrated as to the female organs, and the fruit perifhes.
The ftigma of the flower has, befides, two other Angular properties ; viz. that it
is always divefted of the cuticle or film, nor has it any bark as the other parts
have, and it is always bedewed with a moifture.
Upon the whole it appears, that the generation of plants is accomplifhed by the
antherm fhedding their duft on the ftigmata. In the generation of animals, we are cer-
tain, that the male fperm muft come in contadt with the female organ, if there be
any impregnation. In the vegetable kingdom, the genital duft is carried by the air
to the moift ftigmata, where the particles burft and difcharge their exceeding fine or
No. 3. M foluble
42 , . A KEY TO PHYSIC
foluble contents, which impregnate the ovary. This will appear if it be confi-
dered, that, when a plant is in flower, and the dull: of the antherae flying about,
part of this duft vifibly lights upon and clings to the lligina ;
the ftamina and
piftillum are generally of the fame height, that the male dull may more eafily come
at the'ftigma ;
and, in thofe plants w'here this is not the cafe, a Angular procefs
of fecundation may be obferved ;
thus in the African tree crane’s bill, or Gera-
nium inquinans, where the piftillum is fliorter than the ftamina, the flowers be-
fore they blow are pendulous, but upon their opening they ftand upright, that the
powder may fall upon the ftigma ; after which they again nod till the fruit is ripe,
and then ftand upright a fecond time,, that their feeds may be more eaAly fcattered
about. In fome of the pinks, the piftilla, which are longer than the ftamina, are
bent back like rams-horns towards the antherae.
Again, the ftamina for the raoft part furround the piftillum, fo that fome of
the duft is alw-ays blowm by the wind on the ftigma. Moreover, the ftamina and
piftillum come at the fame time, not only in one and the fame flower, but alfo
where fome are male and others female on the fame plant, very few excepted.
Farther, in almoft all forts of flow'ers we fee how they expand or open by the
heat of the fun; but in the evening, and in a moift ftate of. the air, they clofe or
contraft their flow’ers, left the moifture, getting to the duft of the antherm, fhould
coagulate the famej and render it incapable of being blown on the ftigma; but,
when once the fecundation is over, the flowers neither contradl in the evening, nor
yet againft rain. The wind on many occaftons ferves as a vehicle for bringing the
farina of the males to the females. M. GeofFroy cites a ftory from Jovius Pon-
tanus, who relates that in his time there were two palm-trees, the one male,
cultivated at Brindifl, the other female, in the woods of Otranto, flfteen leagues
apart ;
that this latter w'as feveral years without bearing any fruit ;
till at length,
riftng above the other trees of the foreft, lb as it might fee (fays the poet) the
male palm-tree at Brindifl, it then began to bear fruit in abundance. M. Geoffroy
makes no doubt but that the tree then only began to bear fruit, becaufe, it was
in a condition to catch, on its branches the farina of the male, brought thither by
the wind. In the male and female of the piftachia-nut-tree they obferve the fame
method as in thofe of the date-tree^ We may obferve farther, that, fince the male
duft is generally of greater fpecific gravity than the air, in moft plants that have
the piftillum longer than the ftamina, the all-wife Creator has made the flowers
nodding, that the powder may more eafily reach the ftigma. With refpe.61; to
thofe plants w'hofe ftems grow under w'atef, the flowers, a littl-e before they
blow, emerge or rife above the furface, of thCjWater; and thofe, all whofe parts
grow
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 43
grow under water, about the time of flowering raife their genital ftems above
the water, which flems fink again as foon as the time of generating is over. A
fimilar conclufion may be farther eftabliflied from the confideration of all forts of
flowers ;
but enough has been faid to prove that the generation of plants is per-
formed by the genital dull of the antherse falling on the moift ftigma, or female
organ; which duft, by the help of the moifture,- adheres and burfts, difcharging
its contents, the fubtile particles of which are abforbed by the ftyle into the ova-
rium, germen, or feed-bud. However, the dull of the antherae does not penetrate
through the ftyle to the germen and rudiments of the feed, as fome writers have
fuppofed; the contrary appears to be the cafe from opening a flower of the oriental
rough poppy, cutting its piftillum perpendicularly downwards ;
and the lamellae
or folds, the placentae, and the fmall feeds fticking to them, will be found of a
pure white colour, though at the fame time the ftyle and all the ftigmata are
wholly tinged'with a purple hue from the duft of the antherae. Hence, we con-
clude, that not one grain or particle of the farina enters the folds of the receptacle
or feeds themfelves.
We may clofe this account with obferving upon the whole, that the calyx is
the marriage-bed, in which the ftamina and piftilla, and male and female organs,
celebrate the nuptials of plants, and where they are cherifhed and defended from
external injuries : the corolla or petals are the curtains clofely furrounding the
genital organs, in order to keep off ftorm, rain, or cold ; but, when the fun
fliines bright, they freely expand, to give accefs both to the fun’s rays and to the
fecundating duft : the filaments are the fpermatic veffels, by which the juice, fe-
creted from the plant, is carried to the antherse ; the antherse are the tefticles, and
may not improperly be compared to the foft roe or milt of fifties ; the duft of the
antherae anfwers to the fpemi and feminal animalcules; for, though it is dry, that
it may be the more eafily conveyed by the wind, yet it gets moifture by touch-
ing the ftigma : the ftigma is that external part of the female organ which re-
ceives the male duft, and on which the male duft adls : the ftyle is the vagina, or
tube, through which the effluvia of the male duft pafs to the germen, or feed»bud:
the germen is the ovary, for it contains the unimpregnated or unfertilized feeds ;
the pericarpium, or feed-veffel, anfwers to the impregnated ovary, and in fadl is
the fame with the germen, or feed -bud, only increafed in bulk, and loaded with
fertile feeds; the feeds are the eggs. Moreover, the calyx is a produdlion of the
external bark of the plant ;
the corolla of the inner bark; the ftamina of the al-
burnum, or white fap ;
the pericarpium, or feed-veffel, of the woody fubftance;
and the feeds of the pith of the tree for in this manner they are placed, and in
this
44 A KEY TO PHYSIC
this manner alfo they are unfolded ; fo that in the flower we find all the internal
parts of a plant unfolded.
The ftomach of plants is the earth, from which they receive their nourifliment
;
and the fineft and moft fubtile parts of its foil is their chyle ; the root, which car-
ries the chyle from the ftomach to the body of the plant, is analogous to the ladteals,
or chyliferous veflels, of animals : the trunk, which fupports and gives ftrength to
the whole plant, is analogous to the bones ; the leaves, by which plants tranfpire
are inftead of lungs, and they may be alfo compared to the mufcles of animals, for
by their agitation with the wind the plant is put in motion ;
on which account,
herbs furniftied with leaves cannot thrive unlefs they have air; but fucculent
plants, which have no leaves, though flint up in green-houfes and quite deprived of
the external air, thrive very well. Heat is to plants analogous to the heart in animals
;
for they have no heart, nor have they occafion for any ; becaufe they live like po-
lypes in the animal kingdom ;
their juices mixed with air being propelled through
their veflels, but not circulated back again by returning veflels. Plants have ge-
nerally their genital organs placed at their ramifications, as animals have theirs at
the ramification of the iliac veflels, with this difference, that the ramifications of
plants afcend, whereas thofe of animals go downwards or backwards ;
whence the
ancients called a plant an in*oerted animal. Pliny obferves, that there is in plants
a natural inftindl to generation ;
and that the males, by a certain blaft and a fubtle
powder, do confummate the nuptials on the females.
For the manner wherein the farina fecundifies, M. Geoffroy advances two opi-
nions:—1. That the farina being always found of a fulphureous compofition, and
full of fubtile penetrating parts (as appears from its fprightly odour), falling on the
piftils of the flowers, there refolves, and the fubtileft of its parts, penetrating the
fubftance of the piftil and the young fruit, excite a fermentation to open and un-
fold the young plant, enclofed in the embryo of the feed. In this hypothefis the
feed is fuppofed to contain the plant in miniature, and only to w^ant a proper juice
to unfold its parts, and make them grow. 2. The fecond opinion is, that the farina
of the flower is the firft germ or bud of the new plant, and needs nothing to unfold
it, and enable it to grow, but the juice it finds prepared in the embryos of the feed.
Thefe two theories of vegetable generation, the reader will obferve, bear a ftridl
analogy to thofe two of animal generation : viz. either that the young animal is in the
femen mafculinum, and only needs the juice ofthe matrix to cherifli and bring it forth
;
or that the animal is contained in the female ovum, and needs only the male feed to excite
a fermentation, &c. M. Geoffroy rather takes the proper feed to be in the farina ; inaf-
much as the beft microfcopes do not difcover the leaft appearance ofany bud in the little
embryos
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 45
•embryos of the grains, when examined before the apices have flied their dull. In
leguminous plants, if the leaves^and ftamina be removed, and the piftii, or that part
which becomes the pod, be viewed with the microfcope, before the flower he
opened; the little green tranfparent veficulm, which are to become the grains, will
ajipear in- their natural order; but ftiil fliowing nothing elfe but the mere coat or
Ikin of the grain. If the obfervation be continued for feveral days fucceflTively, in
other flowers, as they advance, the veflculoe will be found to fwell, and by degrees
to become replete with a limpid liquor; wherein, when the farina comes to be flied,
and the leaves of the flower to fall, we obferve a little greenifli fpeck, or globule^
floating about at large. At firft there is not any appearance of organization in this
little body ;
but in time, as it grows, we begin to diflinguifli two little leaves like
two horns. The liquor diminiflies infenfibly, as the little body grows, till at length
the grain becomes quite opaque; when, upon opening it, we find its cavity filled
with a young plant in miniature; confifting of a little germ or plumuia, a little
root, and the lobes of the bean, or pea, &c.
The manner w’herein this germ of the apex enters the veficula of the feed, is not
very difficult to determine. For, befides that the cavity of the piftil reaches from
the top to the embryos of the grains, thofe grains or veficulae have a little aperture
correfponding to the extremity of the cavity of the piftil, fo that the fmall duft, or
farina, may eafily fall through the aperture into the mouth of the veficula, which
is the embryo of the grain. This cavity, or cicatricula, is much the fame in moft
grains, and it is eafily obferved in peafe, beans, &c. without the microfcope. The
root of the little germ is juft againft this aperture, and through this it paffes out
when the little grain comes to germinate.
From what has been faid, it becomes evident, that, unlefs the female plant is im-
pregnated by the male, it can bring forth no fruit, nor feed, that will grow. This
holds good throughout the whole fyftem of vegetation. But, as trees and plants arc
immoveably fixed, and cannot like animals rove about in fearch of a mate, the all-
wife Creator has compenfated this, by means of little infects, the bee, and the
winds, which doubtlefs carry the pollen, or fecundating matter of the male, to the
piftilla of the female, whereby impregnation and generation follow. But as this,
in the produ6lion of fruits, is rather a fortuitous ev6nt, which fometimes happens
in profufion, and at others but fparingly, thofe who cultivate fruits have been led
by art to affift nature in this neceffary conta<5l of the fexes. While in Arabia, I was
taken to fee this curious operation performed on the date-tree, by which the Arabs
always fecure to themfelves a plentiful harveft of that fruit, which is of fo much
importance to their traffic, and amongft whom this art appears to have been known
No. 4. N long
46 A KEY TO PHYSIC
long before any botanift dreamed of the difference of fexes in vegetables. Of this
the gardener informed me, but was furprifed to find I knew the circumftance be-
fore; “ for (fays be) all who come from Europe to this country have regarded this
operation as a fable. When they obferve a tree where the fpadix has female
flowers, they fearch on a tree that has male flowers (which they know by cuftoni
and experience) for a male fpadix which has not yet burft out of its fpatha or huflc;
this they open, take out the fpadix, and cut it lengthwife in feveral pieces, taking
care not to hurt the flowers. Thefe pieces of fpadix with male flowers they put
lengthwife between the fmall branches of the fpadix which hath female flowers, and
then cover them over with a palm-leaf; in this fituation the piftilla of the female
flower becomes impregnated by the male, which foon after withers and dies; and,
unlefs the natives thus wed and fecundate the female date-tree, it bears no fruit.
Or even if they permit the fpadix of the male flower to burft, or come out, before
it is taken, it is ufelefs for fecundation; it muft for this purpofe have its maiden-
head, as the Arabs term it, or it will not do; and this is loft the fame moment the
bloflbrns burft out of their cafe.” From this curious pr.ocefs of nature in the ge-
neration of vegetables, and from a contemplation of the apparatus flie has contrived
for that purpofe, many ufeful hints may be derived how to alter, improve, enrich,
and vary, the tafte, form, and quality, of fruits, &c. by impregnating the flower of
one with the farina of another of the fame clafs ;
and to this artificial coupling and
mixing it is, that the numberlefs varieties of new fruits, flowers, &c. produced every
year by our nurfery-men and gardeners, with many other phenomena in the vege-
table kingdom, are to be afcribed.
In the cultivation of many of our home-plants, we fometimes meet with circum-
ftances not unfimilar to thofe of the date-tree, which become barren when deprived
of the males. Thus, if the flowers of the male hemp are pulled off before thofe of
the female are fully expanded, the females do not produce fertile feeds. But, as a
ma’e flower is fometimes found upon a female plant, this may be the reafon why
fertile feeds are fometimes produced even after this precaution has been obferved.
The tulip affords another experiment to the fame purpofe.—Cut off all the antheraa
of a red tulip before the pollen is emitted; then take the ripe anther as of a white
tulip, and throw the pollen of the w'hite one upon the ftigma of the red; the feeds
of the red tulip, being thus impregnated by one of a different complexion, will next
feafon produce fome red, fome white, but moftly variegated, flowers.
In the year 1744, Linnaeus publiflied a defcription of a new genus, which he called
peloria, on the fuppofition of its being a hybrid or mule plant, i. e. a plant produced
by an unnatural commixture of two different genera. The root, leaves, caulis, &c.
of
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES, 47
of this plant, are exceedingly fimilar to thofe of the Antirrhinum linaria, or com-
mon yellow toad-flax; but the flower and other parts of the fructification are
totally different. On account of its fimilarity to the linaria in every part but the
flower, Linnasus imagined it to have been produced by a fortuitous commixture
of the linaria with feme other plant ;
and from this doCtrine he fuppofes that only
two fpecies of each genus of plants exifted ah origine, and that all the variety of
fpecies which now appear have been produced by unnatural embraces betwixt
fpecies of different genera. Under this head he defends the cafe of Richard
Baal, gardener at Brentford. This Baal fold a large quantity of the feeds of the
Braffica florida to feveral gardeners in the fuburbs of London. Thefe gardeners',
after fowing their feeds in the ufual manner, were.furprifed to find them turn out
to be plants of a different fpecies from that which Baal made them believe they
had purchafed ;
for, inftead of the Braffica florida, the plants turned out to be the
Braffica longifolia. The gardeners, upon making this difcovery, commenced a
profecution of fraud againfl Baal in Weftminfter-hall. The court found Baal
guilty of fraud, and decerned him not only to reftore the price of the feeds, but
likewife to pay the gardeners for their loft time, and the ufe of their ground.
“ Had thefe judges (fays Linnaeus) been acquainted with the fexual generation
of plants, they would not have found Baal guilty of any crime, but would have
afcribed the accident to the fortuitous impregnation of the Braffica florida by the
pollen of the Braffica longifolia.”
With refpedt to the nourifhment of plants, we need only recur to the analogy that
is known to fubfift between plants and animals. It is highly probable that the ra-
dical fibres of plants take up their nourifiiment from the earth, in the fame manner
that the ladteal veffelsabforb the nutriment from the inteftines ;
and, as the oily and
watery parts of our food are perfe6tly united into a milky liquor, by means of the
fpittle, pancreatic juice, and bile, before they enter the ladteals, we have all the
reafon imaginable to keep up the analogy, and fuppofe that the oleaginous and
watery parts of the foil are alfo incorporated, previous to their being taken up by
the abforbing veffels of the plant. To form a perfedt judgment of this, we muft
reflect that every foil, in a ftate of nature, has in itfelf a quantity of abforbent
earth, fufficient to incorporate its inherent oil and water; but, when we load it
with fat manures, it becomes effentially neceffary to bellow upon it, at the fame
time, fomething to affimilate the parts. Lime, foap-aflies, kelp, marl, and all the
alkaline fubllances, perform that office. In order to render this operation vifible
to the fenfes, diffolve one dram of Rulfia pot-alli in four ounces of water ; then add
one fpoonful of oil ;
lliake the mixture, and it will inllantly become an uniform
mafs of a whitilli colour, adapted to all the purpofes of vegetation. This eafy and
familiar
/
A KEY TO PHYSIC
familiar experiment is a juft reprefentation of what happens after the operation of
burn-baking, and confequently may be confidered as a condrmalion of the hypo-
thecs advanced. In this procefs, the fward being reduced to aflies, a fixed alkaline
fait is produced; the moifture of the atmofphere foon reduces that fait into a
fluid flate, which, mixing with the toil, brings about an union of the oily and
watery parts, in the manner demonfirated in the experiment. When the under
firatum confifts of a rich vegetable mould, the eftedls of burn-baking will belafting;
but, w'hen the foil happens to be thin and poor, the firft crop frequently fuffers
before it arrives at maturity. The farmer, therefore, who is at the expenfe of
paring and burning a thin foil, fliould beftow upon it a portion of rotten dung, or
fliambles manure, before the allies are fpread, in order to fupply the deficiency of
oily particles : in this way the crop will be fupported during its grow'th, and the
land will be preferved in health and vigour. But plants not only receive nourifli-
ment by their roots, but alfo by their leaves. Vegetables that have a fucculent
leaf, fuch as vetches, peafe, beans, and buck-wdieat, draw a great part of their
nourifliment from the air, and on that account impoverifii the foil lefs than wheat,
oats, barley, or rye, the leaves of which are of a firmer texture. Rape and hemp
are oil-bearing plants, and, confequently, impoverifiiers of the foil ;
but the former
lefs fo than the latter, on account of the greater fucculency of its leaf. The
leaves of all kinds of grain are fucculent for a time, during which period the
plants take little from the earth ;
but, as foon as the ear begins to be formed,
they lofe their foftnefs, and diminifli in their attradlive power. The radical fibres
are then more vigoroufly employed in extradling the oily particles of the earth for
the nourifliment of the feed. The leaves of plants ferve, not only as excretory
dudls to feparate and carry off the redundant watery fluid, which, by being long
detained in the plants, would turn rancid and prejudicial to them, but likewife to
imbibe the dew and rain, which contain fait, fulphur, &c. and to be of the fame
ufe to plants that the lungs are to animals. But, as plants have not a dilating
and contfadting thorax, their infpirations and expirations will not be fo frequent
as thofe of animals, but depend wholly on the alternate changes from hot to cold
for infpiratioiij and vice verfa for expiration. But the greater part of their nou-
rifliment is derived from the roots. Thefe, therefore, are found to bear a con-
fiderable proportion to the body of the plant above ground ; the fuperficies of
the former being above four-tenths of that of the latter. Hence appears the ne-
ceffity of cutting off many branches from a tranfplanted tree ;
becaufe, in digging
it up, a great part of the root is cut off.
It is a curious occult fadt, with refpedt to vegetables, that they thrive bed from
putrefadlion, and flourifli mod in putrid air. Manure, though it has a dench almod
fufficient
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 49
fwfficient to infe6l the blood, yet, if placed round plants and herbs, will make them
grow furprifingly; and we every day fee how luxuriantly they will thrive upon a
dunghill. Yet it is as true, that though thefe vegetables eagerly fuck in and imbibe
fo foul a moifture, and thrive in air fo ftrongly tainted with putrefa6lion, even in’
fuch as would prove fatal to human life, yet thofe very plants exhale a dire6t oppo-
fite effluvium, tending to refrefli and fweeten the atmofphere, and to render it whole-
fome, when it is become noxious in confequence of epidemical complaints, or of
animals dying and putrifying in it; whence it follows that vegetables draw in the
foul or infe6led corpufcles, as favourable to their fuftenance, which being con-
co6led, altered, and changed, in the body of the plant, it again emits them purified
and fweet. This I have proved by the following experiment: A quantity of air
was made thoroughly noxious, by fome mice breathing and dying in it. This I
divided into two parts, in glafs receivers. Into one I put a moufe with a fprig of
mint, which lived very well, and the mint alfo flourithed; but in the other, where
there was no mint, the moufe died almoft immediately. This experiment I have
many times repeated with different kinds and portions of infe6led air, and have always
found the refult nearly the fame; wherefore this plain reafoning follows; that, as
vegetables draw in by their leaves and roots the putrid effluvium of the air, fo their
emiffion of purified corpufcles contributes to make the remaining air more fit and
'tvholefome for refpiration; and from this circumftance I recommend all perfons
who vifit the fick, or have putrid diforders in their families, to ufe as many frefli
vegetables as poffible, and never to be without fome fprigs of mint about them.
Of sympathy, ANTIPATHY, SAGACITY, and OCCULT
INSTINCT, IN BRUTES.
BRUTE is a general name given to all animals except man; and an animal
muff be an organized living body, endowed with fenfe; for minerals are faid to
grow and increafe, plants to grow and live; but animals alone are endowed with
fenfation. It is this property of fenfation alone, that conftitutes the effential cha-
radteriftic of an animal ; and by which the animal and vegetable kingdoms feem to
be fo materially feparated. Thofe naturalifts, who have fuppofed the difiin6tion
between animals and vegetables to confift in any thing elfe than the gift offenfation,
have found themfelves greatly embarraffed; and have generally agreed, that it w’as
extremely/lifficult, if not impoffible, to fettle the boundaries between the animal and
vegetable kingdoms. But this difficulty will be eafily feen to arife from their taking
the charadleriftic marks of the animal kingdom from fomething that was evidently
common to both.. Thus Boerhaave attempted to diftinguifii an. animal from a vege-^.
No, 4«, ' O table^,
50 A KEY TO PHYSIC
table, by the former having a mouth, which the latter has not; but here, as the
mouth of an animal is only the inftrument by which nourifhment is conveyed to its
body, it is evident that this can be no eifential diftindlion, becaufe vegetables, as
we have above demonftrated, require nourifliment, and have inftruments proper
for conveying it into their bodies; and, where the end is the fame, a difference in the
means can never be eifential. The fixing the difference in an animal’s having a
gula, flomach, and inteftines, as is done by Dr. Tyfon, is as little to the purpofe.
The power of moving from one place to another, hath by many been thought to
conftitute their eifential difference; and indeed, in mofl cafes, it is the obvious mark
by which we diffinguifh an animal from a vegetable; but Lord Karnes hath given
us feveral very curious inflances of the locomotive pow'er of plants; fome of which
would doubtlefs do honour to an animal.—Upon the flighteft touch, the Mimofa, or
fenfitive plant, flirinks back, and folds up its leaves,* as a fnail, on the flighteft
touch, retires within its fliell. If a fly perch upon one of its flower-leaves, it clofes
inftantly, and crufhes the infedl to death. There is not an article in botany more
admirable than a contrivance, vifible in many plants, to take advantage of good
weather, and to protedl themfelves againft bad. They open and clofe their flowers
and leaves in different circumftances ; fome clofe before funfet, fome after; fome
open to receive rain, fome clofe to avoid it. The petals of many flowers expand
in the fun; but contradt at night, or on the approach of rain. After the feeds
are fecundated, the petals no longer contradl. All the trefoils may ferve as a baro-
meter to the hufbandman ;
they always contrail; their leaves on an impending ftorm.
Some plants follow the fun, others turn from it. Many plants, on the fun recefs,
vary the pofition of their leaves ;
which is ftyled theJleep ofplants. A fingular
plant was lately difcovered in Bengal : its leaves are in continual motion all day
long; but, when night approaches, they fall down from an erect pofture to reft.
A plant has a power of dire6ling its roots for procuring food. The red whortle-
berry, a low ever-green plant, grows naturally on the tops of our higheft hills,
among ftones and gravel. This flirub w'as planted in an edging to a rich border,
under a fruit-wall. In two or three years, it over-ran the adjoining deep-laid gravel
walk; and feemed to fly from the border, which was not congenial to its nature,
and in w'hich not a Angle runner appeared. An effort to come at food in a bad
fituation, is extremely remarkable in the following inftance ; Among the ruins of
New Abbey, formerly a monaftery in Galloway, there grows on the top of a w'all a
plane-tree about twenty-feet high. Straitened for nourifhment in that barren fitua-
tion, it feveral years ago diredted roots down the fide of the wall, till they reached
* See a particular defcription of the fenfitive plant, in the Appendix to Culpeper, p. 27.
the
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 51
the ground ten feet below; and now the nourifliment it afforded to thofe roots
during the time of their defcending was amply repaid, having every year fince that
time made vigorous flioots. From the top of the wall to the furface of the earth,
thefe roots have not thrown out any fibres ; but are now united in a fingle root.
Plants, when forced from -their natural pofition, are endowed with a power to
reftore themfelves. A hop-plant, twilling round a Hick, directs its courfe from
fouth to well, as the fun does. Untwill it, and tie it in the oppofite direction; it
dies. Leave it loofe in the wrong dire6tion, it recovers its natural direction in a fingle
night. Twill a branch of a tree fo as to invert its leaves, and fix it in that pofition
;
if left in any degree loofe, it untwills itfelf gradually, till the leaves recover their
natural pofition. What better can an animal do for its welfare? A root of a
tree, meeting with a ditch in its progrefs, is laid open to the air. What follows? It
alters its courfe like a rational being ; dips into the ground, undermines the ditch,
rifes on the oppofite fide to its wonted dillance from the furface, and then ptoceeds
in its original direction. Lay a wet fponge near a root laid open to the air; the root
will dire<5l its courfe to the fponge. Change the place of the fponge; the root varies
its direction. Put a pole into the ground at a moderate dillance from a fcandent
plant: the plant dire6ls its courfe to the pole, lays hold of it, and rifes on to its
natural height. A honeyfuckle proceeds in its courfe, till it is too long for fup-
porting its weight ;
and then llrengthens itfelf by Ihooting into a fpiral. If it meets
with another plant of the fame kind, they coalefce for mutual fupport ;
the one
fcrew'ing to the right, the other to the left. If a honeyfuckle-twig meets with a
dead branch, it fcrews from the right to the left. The clafpers of briony flioot
into a fpiral, and lay hold of whatever comes in their way for fupport. If, after
completing a fpiral of three rounds, they meet with nothing, they then try again
for further fupport, by altering their courfe.
By comparing thefe and other inllances of feeming voluntary motion in plants,
with that fliare of life wherewith fome of the inferior kinds of animals are endowed,
we can fcarcely hefitate in afcribing the fuperiority to the former; that is, putting
fenfation out of the quellion. Mufcles, for inllance, are fixed to one place, as
much as plants are; nor have they any power of motion, befides that of opening
and ffiutting their fliells; and in this refpedl they have no fuperiority over the
motion of the fenfitive plant ;
nor doth their a6tion difcover more fagacity, or even
fo much, as the roots of the plane-tree, or the a6lion of other vegetables.
M. Buffbn, who feems to be defirous of confounding the animal and vegetable
kingdoms, denies fenfation to be any eflential diftinftion. “ Senfation (fays he)
more elfentially diftinguiflies animals from vegetables; but fenfation is a complex
idea,
52 A KEY TO PHYSIC
idea, and requires fome explication. For, if fenfation implied no more than
motion confequent upon a ftroke or an impulfe, the fenfjtive plant enjoys this
power ;
but if, by fenfation, w^e mean the faculty of perceiving and comparing
ideas, it is uncertain whether brute animals are endowed with it. If it fhould
be allowed to dogs, elephants, &c. whofe adions feem to proceed from motives
fimilar to thofe by which men are adluated, it mufi be denied to many fpecies
of animals, particularly to thofe which appear not to poffefs the faculty of
progrefiive motion. If the Fenfation of an oyfter, for example, differed only in.
degree from that of a dog; why do we not afcribe the fame fenfation to vege-
tables, though in a degree ftill inferior? This diflindlion, therefore, between the
animal and vegetable, is neither fufficiently general nor determined. Hence
we are led to conclude, that there is no abfolute and effential diftindlion between
the animal and vegetable kingdoms; but that nature proceeds, by imperceptible
degrees, from the moft perfedt to the moft imperfedl animal, and from that to the
vegetable; and thus, the frefli-water polypus may be regarded as the laft of animals
and the firft of plants.”
It were to be wifhed, that philofophers would on fome occafions confider, that
a fubjcdl may be dark as well on account of their inability to fee, as when it really
affords no light. This great author boldly concludes, that there is no effential
difference between a plant and an animal, becaufe we afcribe fenfation to an
oyfler, and none to the fenfitive plant; but we ought to remember, that, though
we cannot perceive a diflindtion, it may neverthelefs exifl. Before M. Buffon,
therefore, had concluded in this manner, he ought to have proved that fome
vegetables were endowed with fenfation.
It is no doubt, however, as much incumbent on thofe who take the contrary fide
of the queflion, to prove that vegetables are not endowed with fenfation, as it was
incumbent on M. Buffon to prove that they are. But a little attention wilffhow us,
that the difficulty here proceeds entirely from our inability to fee the principle of
fenfation. We perceive this principle in ourfelves, but no man can perceive it in
another. Why then does every individual of mankind conclude, that his neighbour
has the fame fenfations with himfelf ? It can only be from analogy. Every man
perceives his neighbour formed in a manner fimilar to himfelf; he adls in a iimilac
manner on fimilar occafions, &c. Juft fo it is with brute animals. It is no more
doubtful that they have fenfations, than that we have them ourfelves. If a man is
wounded with a knife, for inftance, he expreffes a fenfe of pain, and endeavours to
avoid a repetition of the injury. Wound a dog in the lame manner, he will alfo
exprefs a fenfe of pain; and, if yllu offer to ftrike him again, will endeavour to
elpape,.
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 53
efcape, before he feels the ftroke. To conclude here, that the adlion of the dog
proceeded from a principle different from that of the man, would be abfurd and
unphilofophical to the laft degree.
We muft farther take notice, that there are fenfations effentially diftindt from one
another ;
and in proportion as an animal is endowed with more or fewer of thefe
different fpecies, it is more or lefs perfedl as an animal: but, as long as only one of
them remains, it makes not the leaft approach to the vegetable kingdom ;
and,
when they are all taken away, is fo far from becoming a vegetable, that it is only
a mafs of dead matter. The fenfes of a perfe6t animal, for inftance, are five in
number. Take away one of them, fuppofe fight, he becomes then a lefs perfedt
animal; but is as unlike a vegetable as before. Suppofe him next deprived of hear-
ing, his refemblance to a vegetable would be as little as before ;
becaufe a vegeta-
ble can neither feel, tafte, nor fmell; and we fuppofe him flill to enjoy thefe three
fenfes. Let us, laflly, fuppofe him endowed only with the fenfe of feeling, which
however feems to include that of tafte, and he is no more a vegetable than for-
merly, but only an imperfedl animal. If this fenfe is then taken away, we connedl
him not with the vegetable kingdom, but with what M. Buffon calls brute-matter.
It is to this kingdom, and not to the vegetable, that animals plainly approximate
as they defcend. Indeed, to fuppofe an approximation between the vegetable and
animal kingdoms, is very abfurd ; for, at that rate, the moll imperfedl animal
ought to be the moft perfedl plant : but we obferve no fuch thing. All animals,
from the higheft to the loweft, are polfelfed of vegetable life ;
and that, as far as
we can perceive, in an equal degree, whether the animal life is perfedl or imper-
fedl ; nor doth there feem to be the fmalleft connedlion between the higheft de-
gree of vegetation and the loweft degree of fenfation. Though all animals are
polfelfed of vegetable life, thefe two feem to be as perfedlly diftinft and incom-
menfurate to one another, as any two things we can poffibly imagine.
The power of vegetation, for inftance, is as perfedl in an onion or leek, as in a
dog, an elephant, or a man : and yet, though you threaten a leek or an onion ever
fo much, it pays no regard to your words, as a dog would do : nor, though you
wound it, does it avoid a fecond ftroke. It is this principle of felf-prefervation in
animals, which, being the moft powerful one in their nature, is generally taken,
and with very good reafon, as the true charadleriftic of animal life. This principle
is undoubtedly a confequence of fenfation ;
and, as it is never obferved to take
place in vegetables, we have a right to fay that the foundation of it, namely, fen-
fation, belongs not to them. There is no animal, which makes any motion in con-
fequence of external impulfe where danger is threatened, but what puts itfelf in a
No. 4. P pofture
54 A KEY TO PHYSIC
pofture of defence ;
but no vegetable whatever does fo. A mufcle, when It
touched, immediately fliuts its diell; and, as this adtion puts it in a ftate of de-
fence, we conclude that it proceeded from the principle of felf-prefervation. When;
the fenfitive plant contracts from a touch, it is no more in a ftate of defence than
before; for whatever would have deftroyed it in its expanded ftate, will alfo do fo
in its contracted ftate. The motion of the fenfitive plant proceeds only from acer-
tain property called irritability; and which, though our bodies poffefs it in an
eminent degree, is a charaCteriftic neither of animal nor vegetable life, but belongs
to us in common with brute-matter. It is certain, that an eleClrified filk thread
fliows a much greater variety of motions than any fenfitive plant. If a bit of filk
thread is dropt on an eleCtrified metal plate, it immediately ereCts itfelf; fpreads
out tbe fmall fibres like arms; and, if not detained, will fiy off. If a finger is
brought near it, the thread feems greedily to catch at it. If a candle approaches,,
it clafps clofe to the plate as if afraid of if. Why do we not conclude that the
thread in this cafe is really afraid of the candle? For this plain reafon, that its
feeming flight is not to get aw'ay from the candle, but to get towards the electrified
metal ; and, if allow'ed to remain there, w’ill fuffer itfelf to be burnt without offer-
ing to ftir. The fenfitive plant, in like manner, after it has contraCled, will fuffer
itfelf to be cut to pieces, without making the leaft effort to efcape. The cafe is not
fo with the meaneft animal. An hedge-hog, when alarmed, draws its body toge-
ther, and expands its prickles, thereby putting itfelf in a pofture of defence.
Throw it into water, and the fame principle of felf-prefervation prompts it to ex-
pand its body and fwim. A fnail, when touched, withdraws itfelf into its fliell,
but if a little quicklime is fprihkled upon it, fo that its fliell is no longer a place of
fafety, it is thrown into agonies, and endeavours to avail itfelf of its locomotive
pow'er in order to efcape the danger. In mufcles and oyfiers, indeed, we cannot
obferve this principle of felf-prefervation fo ftrongly, as nature has deprived them
of the power of progreffive motion : but, as w'e obferve them conftantly to ufe the
means which nature has given them for felf-prefervation, we can have no reafon
to think that they are deftitute of that principle upon which it is founded.
But there is no need of arguments drawn from the inferior creation. We our^
felves are poffeffed both of the animal and vegetable life, and certainly muft know
whether there is any connexion between vegetation and fenfation or not. We are
confcious that we exift; that w'e hear, fee. See. but of our vegetation we are abfo-
lutely unconfeious. We feel a pleafure, for inftance, in gratifying the calls of hun-
ger and thirft; but of the procefs by which our aliment improves our growth and
vigour, ive are altogether ignorant. If we, then, who are more perfeCl than othec
vegetables,.
55
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES.
vegetables, are utterly infenfible of our own vegetable life, why fhould we imagine
that the lefs perfe6l vegetables are fenfible of it?
To illuftrate our reafoning here by an example. The dire6Hon of the roots of the
plane-tree, mentioned above, fhovvs as much fagacity, if we are to look only to the
outward a6lion, as can be obferved in any motion of the moft perfe6l animal what-
ever ;
neverthelefs, we have not the leaft fufpidon, either that the tree faw the
ground at a diftance, or that it was. informed of its being there by the reft of its roots.
If a wound is made in the body of a man, and a lofs of fubftance is to be repaired,
the fame fagacity w ill be obferved in the arrangement of the fibres, not only as if
they tvere animated, but they will difpofe of themfelves feemingly with a degree of
wifdom far fuperior to what we have any idea of ;
yet this is done without our having
the leaft knowledge either how it is done, or of its being done at all. We have
therefore in ourfelves a demonftration, that vegetable life ads without our knowing
what it does i and, if vegetables are ignorant of their moft fagacious adions, why
fhould w'e fufped that we have a fenfation, let it be ever fo obfcure, of any of their
inferior ones, fuch as contrading from a touch, turning towards the fun, or ad-
vancing to meet a pole ? Thus we may eafily give M. BulFon a reafon why we
afcribe fenfation to an oyfter, and none to a vegetable ;
namely, becaufe we per-
ceive the vegetable to do nothing but what is alfo performed in our own bodies
without our having the leaf; fenfation of it; whereas an oyfter puts itfelf in a de-
fenfive pofture on the approach of danger ; and, this being an adion fimilar to our
own upon a like occafion, w'e conclude that it proceeds from the fame principle of
fenfation. Here it may alfo be obferved, that, though the inferior animals are
deficient in the number, they are by no means fo in the acutenefs of their fenfa»
tion; on the contrary, though a mufcle or an oyfter is probably endowed with no-
other fenfe than that of feeling, yet this fenfe is fo exquifite, that it will contrad
upon the flighteft touch, fuch as we fliould altogether be infenfible of.
As to that power of contradility, or irritability, which is obferved in fome plants;
our folids have it, when deprived both of vegetable and animal life; for the human
heart, or a mufcle, cut out of an animal body, will continue to contrad, if it is
irritated by pricking it, after it has neither fenfation nor vegetation.
A very good moral reafon may allb be adduced, why vegetables are not endowed
with fenfation. Had they been fo, we may fuppofe them to fuffer pain when they
are cut or deftroyed ;
and, if fo, what an unhappy ftate muft. they be in, who have
not the leaft power to avoid the. injuries daily offered them ? In fadj the goodnefs
of the Deity is very confpicuous in not giving to vegetables the fame fenfations as
to animals;, and, as he hath given them no means of defence, though we had not
been>
5(5 A KEY TO PHYSIC
been told it by himfeif, we might have known that he gave them for food to ani-
mals ;
and, in this cafe, to have endowed them with fenfation would have been
cruelty. Though animals without number prey upon one another, yet all of them
have fome means of defence; from whence w'ejuftly conclude, that their mutual de-
ftru6lion was not an original appointment of the Creator, but what followed from
the fall of iVdam, and what he forefaw would happen in a courfe of time, and which
lie therefore gave every one of them fome means of guarding againft. It may no
doubt be here objedled, that the giving fome means of felf-defence to every animal
cannot be reckoned a fufficient proof that it was not the original defign of the Creator
that they fliould be deflroyed, feeing thefe means are not always elFedlual for their
prefervation. This objedlion, however, cannot be completely obviated without a
folution of the queftion concerning the origin of evil among the works of a per-
fe6lly-good Being. But, whatever difficulty there may be in folving this queftion,
it is certain, that, as fome means of felf-defence is given to every animal, it has
been the original defign of the Creator, that in all cafes one fpecies ofanimals fliould
not be deftroyed at the pleafure or w ill of any other fpecies : and, as no means of
felf-defence is given to any vegetable, it is plain that they have been deftined for a
prey to every fpecies of animals that had accefs to tliem. Philofophers have infifted
much on the neceflity of one animal’s devouring another, that there might be room
fufficient for all; but this, fo far from being a fyftem w'orthy of the divine wifdom,
feems to be a refledlion upon it, as if the Author of Nature could not have found
means to preferve the life of one part of his creatures, without the deftrudtion and
mifery of the reft The facred writings leave us at no lofs to fee how this carnivo-
rous difpofition came im; and in the next world, this piece of perfedtion (as the
fanguinary philofophers above-mentioned would have it to be) feems to be left out;
for there, it is faid, “ They lhall not hurt nor deftroy; the lion ftiall eat ftraW like
the ox; and there ihall be no more pain.” Ifa. xi. 7, 9. Bev. xxi. 4.
Of ANIMAL FLOWERS.
The grand argument for animal life in vegetables, w'as inferred from the curious
conftrudtion of the frelli-water poly pus, and the ciBinia genus, called animal flowers,
'lea-anemone, fea-funflower, &c. which, having indeed the external form and figure
cf vegetables, w’ith fcarcely any progreflive motion, might eafily deceive fuperficial
obfervers ;
but, when more minutely examined, the polypus, and all the adlinia
clafs, turn out to be abfolute animals, of the viviparous kind, and feed on flfli
;
ihe heads or mouths of which, when open, refemble a full-blown flower, whence
they
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 57
fheyare called flower-fifli. There is one fpecies of them, in which the pureft white,
carmine, and ultramarine, are fcarcely fufficient to exprefs their brilliancy. The
bodies of fbme of them are hemifpherical, of others cylindrical, and of others
fliaped like a fig. Their fubftance likewife differs ;
fome are fliff and gelatinous,
others flefliy and mufcular ;
but all of them are capable of altering their figure
when they extend their bodies and claws in fearch of food. They are found on
many of the rocky coaffs of the Weft-India iflands, and on fome parts of the coafl:
of England. They have only one opening, which is in the centre of the uppermoft
part of the animal ;
round this are placed rows of flefliy claws ; this opening is the
mouth of the animal, and is capable of great extenfion. The animals themfelves,
though exceedingly voracious, will bear long faffing. They may be preferved
alive a whole year, or perhaps longer, in a veffel of fea-water, without any vifible
food ;* but,, when food is prefentedj one of them will fueceffively devour two
mufcles in their fhells, or even fwallow a whole crab as large as a hen’s egg. In
a day or two the crab-fhell is voided at the mouth, perfe6tly cleared of all the
meat. The mufcle-fhells are likewife difcharged whole, with the fhells joined to-
gether, but entirely empty, fb that not the leaf!; particle of fifh is to be perceived
on opening them. An anemone of one fpecies will even fwallow an individual o^
another fpecies ;. but, after retaining it ten or twelve hours, will throw it up alive*
and uninjured. Through this opening alfo it produces its young ones alive, alrea|Jy
furniflied with little claws,, which, as foon as they fix themfelvesj they begin to
extend in fearch of food. One of the extremities of the fea-anemone exactly re_
fembles the outward leaves of that flower ;
while its limbs are not unlike the fliag
or inner part of it. By the other extremity it fixes itfelf, as by a fucker, to the
rocks or ftones lying in the fand ;
but it is not totally deprived of the power of
progreffive motion, as it can fhift its fituation, though very flowly.
A peculiar fpecies of animal-flowers, called the cluttered animal-flower, has
been found in fome of the Wett-India iflands, an account of which was publifhed:
in the Philofophical Tranfa6tions, vol. Ivii. by Mr. Ellis, in a letter to Lord Hillf-
borough. This compound-animal, which is of a tender flefliy fubttance, confitts
of many tubular bodies, fwelling gently towards the upper part, and ending like a.
bulb or very fmall onion ;
on the top of each is its mouth, furrounded by one or
two rows of tentacles, or claw^s, which when contracted look like circles of beads»
The lower part of all thefe bodies has a communication with a firm flefliy wrink-
led tube, which flicks fatt to the rocks, and fends forth other flefliy tubes, which:
creep along them in various directions. Thefe are full of different fizes of thefe
No.. 4.. Q. remarkable.
A KEY TO PHYSIC
iS
remarkable animals, which rife up irregularly in groups near to one another. This
adhering tube, that fecures them faft to the rock, or flielly bottom, is worthy of our
notice. The knobs are formed into feveral parts of it by its infinuating itfelf into
the inequalities of the coral rock, or by grafping pieces of diells, part of which
Hill remain in it, with the flefhy fubftance grown over them. This fhows us the
inftin(5l of nature, that diredls thefe animals to preferve themfeives from the vio-
lence of the waves, not unlike the anchoring of mufcles by their fine filken fila-
ments that end in fuckers ;
or rather like the fiielly bafis of the ferpula, or worm-
lliell, the tree-oyfter, and the flipper barnacle, &c. whofe bafes conform to the
fiiape of whatever fubflance they fix themfeives to, grafping it fall with their tefla-
ceous claws, to withfland the fury of a florm. When we view the infide of this
animal difleifled lengthwife, we find a little tube leading from the mouth to the flo-
mach, from whence there rife eight wrinkled fmall guts, in a circular order, wdth a
yellowifli foft fubflance in them ;
thefe bend over in the form of arches towards
the lower part of the bulb, whence they may be traced downwards, to the narrow
part of the upright tube, till they come to the flelliy adhering tube, where fome of
them may be perceived entering into the papilla, or the beginning of an animal of
the like kind, moft probably to convey it nourifliment till it is provided with claws;
the remaining part of thefe flender guts are continued on in the flefhy tube, with-
qpt doubt for the purpofe of producing and fupporting more young from the fame
common parent.
The Abb6 Dicquemarre, by many curious though cruel experiments, related in
the Phil. Tranf. for 1773, has Ihown that thefe animals poflefs, in a mofl extraor-
dinary degree, the power of reprodudlion ;
fo that fcarcely any thing more is ne-
ceflary to produce as many fea-anemones as we pleafe, than to cut a Angle one
into as many pieces. A fea-anemone being cut in two by a fedlion through the
body, that part, where the limbs and mouth are placed, ate a piece of mufcle of-
fered to it foon after the operation, and continued to feed and grow daily for three
months after. The food fometimes pafled through the animal ;
but was generally
thrown up again, confiderably changed, as in the perfedt fea-anemone. In about
two months, two rows of limbs and a mouth were perceived growing out of the
part where the incifion was made. On offering food to this new mouth, it w^as
laid hold of and eaten ;
and, the limbs continually increafing, the animal gradu-
ally became as perfedi as thofe which had never been cut. In fome inflances,
however, when one of thefe creatures was cut through, new limbs would be pro-
duced from the cut place, thofe at the mouth remaining as before ;
fo that a mon-
ftrous animal was the confequence, having two mouths, and feeding at both ends.
Under
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES.
Under a large hollow cliff, in the illand of Barbadoes, where the fea flows up,
and forms a bafon, there is a fixed ftone, or piece of rock, in the middle, which is
always under water. Round its fides, at different depths, feldom exceeding
eighteen inches, are feen at all times of the year, iffuing out of little holes, cer-
tain fubftances that have the appearance of fine radiated flowers, of a pale yellow,
or a bright draw colour, flightly tinged with green, having a circular border of
thick-fet petals, about the fize of, and much refembling, thofe of a Angle garden-
marigold, except that the whole of this feeming flower is narrower at the difcus, or
fetting-on of the leaves, than any flower of that kind. Mr. Hughes, in his Hiftory
of Barbadoes, gives the following curious account of them: “I have attempted to
pluck one of thefe animal-flowers from the rock to which they are fixed ; but
never could effedt it; for, as foon as my fingers came within two or three inches of
it, it would immediately contract together its yellow border, and flirink back into
the hole of the rock ;
but, if left undifturbed for about four minutes, it would come
’gradually in fight, expanding, though at firfi; very cautioufly, its feeming leaves,
till at lad it appeared in its former bloom. However, it would again recoil, with a
furprifing quicknefs, when my hand came within a fmall didance of it. Having
tried the fame experiment by attempting to touch it with my cane, and a fmall
flender rod, the effeft was the fame. But, though I could not by any means con-
trive to take or pluck one of thefe animals entire, yet I cut off (with a knife
which I had held for a long time out of fight, near the mouth of a hole out of which
one of thefe animals appeared) two of thefe feeming leaves. Thefe, when out of
the water, retain their diape and colour ; but, being compofed of a membrane-
like fubdance, furprifingly thin, they foon flirivelled up, and decayed.” The
reprodu6tive power of the Barbadoes animal-flower is prodigious. Many people
coming to fee thefe drange creatures, and occafioning fome inconvenience to a
perfon through whofe grounds they were obliged to pafs, he refolved to dedroy
the objedl of their curiofity ;
and, that he might do fo effe(5lually, he caufed all
the holes out of which they appeared, to be carefully bored and drilled with an
iron indrument, fo that we cannot fuppofe but their bodies mud have been en-
tirely crudied to a pulp : neverthelefs they again appeared in a few weeks in did
greater abundance, from the very fame places.
The fea-carnation, or animal-flower, found among the rocks at Hadings in Suf-
fex, is very fimilar to the animal-flower of Barbadoes. This animal adheres by its
tail, or fucker, to the under part of the projedling rocks oppofite the town ; and,
when the tide is out, has the appearance of a long white fig ;
which is alfo the form
®f it when put into a glafs of fea-water.
Oj
50 A KEY TO PHYSIC
Of the polypus.
THE Polype, or Polypus, which fo long divided naturalifts in opinion whether
it was of vegetable or animal conformation, is a frelh-water animal, of the hydra
genus, in the clafs of worms, and order of zoophyteSy in the Linnaean fyftem,- It
is of a cylindrical figure, but variable, with very long tentacula, or claws,. There
is fcarcely an animal in the world more difficult to defcribe, than this furprifing
worm ;
it varies its whole figure at pleafure, and is frequently found befet witb
young in fuch a manner as to appear ramofe and divaricated ;
thefe y&ung ones
adhering to it fo as to appear parts of its body.
When fimple and in a moderate ftate as to contradtion or dilation, it is oblong,,
flender, pellucid, and of a pale-reddifh colour ; its body is fomewhat fmaller to-
wards the tail, by which it fixes itfelf to fome folid body : and larger towards the
other extremity, where it has a larger opening, called its mouth, around which ar^
the tentacula, or claws, which are eight in number, and are ufually extended to
about half the length of its body. By means of thefe tentacula, or arms, as they are'
commonly called, expanded into a circle of more than half a foot diameter, the crea-
ture feels every thing that can ferve it for food ; and, feizing the prey with one of
them, calls in the afliftance of the others, if necelTary, to condudt it to its mouth.
The production of its young is different from the common courfe of nature im
other animals ;
for the young one iffues from the fide of its parent in the form of a
fmall pimple, which, lengthening every hour, becomes, in about two days, a perfeCV
animal, and drops from off its parent to fliift for itfelf : but, before it does this, it
has often another growing from its fide ;
and fometimes a third from that, even
before the firft is feparated from its parent ;
and what is very extraordinary,
there has never yet been difcovered among them any diftinClion of fex, or ap-
pearance of copulation; every individual of the whole fpecies being prolific, and
that as much if kept feparate as if fuffered to live among others ; but what is even
ftill more furprifing, is the reproduction of its feveral parts when cut off ; for,
when cut into a number of feparate pieces, it becomes in a day or two fo many
diftinCt and feparate animals ;
each piece having the property of producing a head
and tail, and the other organs neceffary for life, and all the animal functions.
There is no diftinguiflied place in the body of the polypus, from whencb the
young are brought forth ; for they fpring out like flioots or branches of a tree, from-
all the exterior parts of their bodies. M. Trembley, who had heard much of this
creature, and being determined to convince himfelf, by real experiments, whether
it was a vegetable or an animal, cut one in the middle, when, to his utter amaze-
ment.
t
61
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES.
ment, he found that in twa days each of thofe pieces was become a perfedl animal,
the head-part having fhot forth a tail, and the tail a head. Numerous trials of a
fimilar nature have been made in my own laboratory; and I have always found
that it is of no confequence how often you cut them, for they ftill put out new
members, and become fo many diftindt polypes.
They are always to be found in clear flowly-running w’aters, adhering by the tail
to fticks, flones, and water-plants, and live on fmall infedts. They are eafily kept
alive a long time in glaffes, often changing the water, keeping the glaffes clean,
and feeding them with a fmall red worm, common in the mud of the Thames, or
with other fmall infedls. The creature has its name from the Greek many,
and ffoy;, a foot, fignifying an animal with many feet; but a more appofite one might
eafily have been invented, fince it has in reality no feet at all. What were originally
taken for feet, are what have fince been called its horns, and of late more properly
its arms, their office being to catch its prey. With thefe little arms, which are
capable of great extenfion, it feizes minute worms, and various kinds of water-in-
fedls, and brings them to its mouth:' and, like the fea-anemone, often fwallows
bodies larger than itfelf : having a furprifing property of extending its mouth wider,
in proportion, than any other animal. After its food is digefted in its fiomach, it
returns the remains of the animals upon which it feeds through its mouth again,
having no other obfervable emundlory. In a few days there appear fmall knobs or
papillas on its fides; as thefe increafe in length, little fibres are feen rifing out of
the circumference of their heads, as in the parent animal ;
which fibres they foon
begin to ufe for the purpofe of procuring nourifiiment, 8cc. When thefe are ar-
rived at mature fize, they fend out other young ones on their fides in the fame man-
ner ;
fo that the animal branches out into a numerous offspring, growing out of
one common parent, and united together and difpofed in the manner reprefented in
the annexed plate. Each of thefe provides nourifiiment not only for itfelf, but for
the whole fociety; an increafe of the bulk of one polype, by its feeding, tending
to an increafe in the reft. Thus a polype of the frefii-vvater kind becomes like a
plant branched out, or compofed of many bodies, each of which has this fingular
eharadteriftic, that, if one of them be cut in twm in the middle, the feparated part
becomes ajcomplete animal, and foon, adhering to fome fixed bafe, like the parent
from which it was feparated, produces a circle of arms; a mouth is formed in the
centre; it increafes in bulk, emits a numerous progeny, and is foon, in every re-
#pe6t, as perfedl an animal as that from which it w'as fevered.
The feveral Itrange properties recorded of the polypes and animal flowers, though
very furprifing, are not, however, peculiar to them alone. The Surinam toad is well
No. 5. R '
^ known
62 A KEY TO PHYSIC
known to produce its young, not in the ordinary way, but in cells upon its back»
And, as to the inoft amazing of their properties, the re-prod ui5lion of their parts^
we know the crab and lobfter, if a leg be broken oif, can always produce a new one.
I have annexed a copper-plate of fome excellent drawings of thefe curious phe-
nomena in nature; in which No. 1 reprefents the frelh water polype, with its ten-
tacula or arms extended upwards. No. 2 reprefents the fame animal, with its
young branching from it, and putting out their claw’s for food, which, howfoever
taken, goes to the common fupport of the rvhole family. No. 3 fliows the animal
carnation-flower of the rocks near Haftings in Suffex, with its tentacles extended
in fearch of food. No. 4 is an exadl reprefentation of the fea-anemone, above
defcribed. No. 5 fliows the head of the animal-flower of Barbadoes. No. 6 is
a brilliant difplay of the fea fun-flower animal, with its innumerable tentacles ex-
panded to catch its prey, which being allured to it by its elegant appearance, they
clofe inftantly upon it, and convey it to the interior concavity or mouth. No. 7
reprefents a clufter of the animal-flower defcribed by Mr. Ellis, in the iflands ceded
by France; in which a fliow’s one of the animals ftretching out its tentacles in fearch
offood. No. 8 is a perpendicular difledlion of one of the fame animals, in order to
fliow the gullet, inteftines, ftomach, and the fibres or tendons that move the claws.
Of animalcules.
THE next mofl furprifing part of animal nature, is that of animalcules, an innu-
merable tribe of living beings, wholly invifible to the naked eye, and which cannot
even be perceived to exift, but by the afliftance of microfcopes. The fmallefl;
living creatures our inftruments can fliow, are thofe that inhabit the waters ;
for,
though poflibly animalcules equally minute, or perhaps more fo, may fly in the
air, or creep upon the earth, it is fcarcely poffible to bring fuch under our exami-
nation; but, w^ater being tranfparent, and confining the creatures in it, we are able,
by applying a drop of it to our glaffes, to difcover, to a certain degree of fmallnefs,
all that it contains.—Some of the moft curious of thefe animalcules, which have
been defcribed by microfcopical obfervers, are as follow.
]. The Hair-like InfeB. This is fo called on account of its fliape; being ex-
tremely flender, and frequently an hundred and fifty times as long as broad. The
body or middle part, which is nearly flraight, appears, in fome, compofed of fuch
rings as the windpipe of land-animals; but, in others, feems rather fcaled, or mai^e
up of rings that obliquely crofs one another. Its two ends are hooked or bent, pretty
nearly in the fame degree, but in a dire6lion oppofite to one another ;
and, as no eyes
can
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 65
can be difcerncd, it is difficult to judge which is the head or tail. Its progreffive
motion is very fingular, being performed by turning upon one end as a centre, and
deferibing almofi; a quarter of a circle with the other ;
its ihape and form may be
feen greatly magnified in the following curious Plate of Animalcules, at fig. 1. Its
motions are very flow, and require much patience and attention in the ohferver.
Thefe creatures are fo fmall, that millions of millions of them might be contained
in the circle, fig. 2. When viewed fingly, they are exceedingly tranfparent, and
of a beautiful green colour; but, when numbers of them are brought together, they
become opaque, lofe their green colour, and grow entirely black. The hair-like
infe6l was firft difeovered in a ditch at Norwich, one end of which communicates
with the river there, and the other end with a fecond ditch, into which feveral
kennels empty themfelves. The length of this ditch was at leaft a hundred yards,
and its breadth nine. The bottom, for more than a foot thick, was covered with a
blackifli green fubftance in appearance like mud, made up for the moft part of
thefe infe6ls; but, fuppoflng only half or a quarter part of it to be compofed of
them, according to the above dimenflons, their numbers mufl: exceed all imagination.
2. Eels in Pqjte, &c. When pafle is allowed to fland till it becomes four, it is
then found to be the habitation of numberlefs animalcules, which may be difeerned
by the naked eye; and, though their form cannot be perfe6lly diftinguiflied, their
motion is very perceptible, and'the whole pafte will feem to be animated. Fig, 3
reprefents one of thefe anguillae highly magnified. The moft remarkable property
of thefe infe6ls is, that they are viviparous. If one of them is cut through near
the middle, feveral oval bodies, of different fizes, w'ill be feen to iffue forth. Thefe
are young anguillae, each of them coiled up and inclofed in its proper membrane,
which is fo exquifitely fine, as fcarce to be difcernible by the greateft magnifier,
while it inclofes the embryo animal. The largeft and moft forward immediately
break through this covering, unfold themfelves, and wriggle about in the water
nimbly-; others get out, uncoil, and move themfelves about more flowly; and the
leaft mature continue entirely without motion. The uterus, or veffel that contains
all thefe oval bodies, is compofed of many ringlets, not unlike the afpera arteria
of land-animals, and feems to be confiderably elaftic; for, as foon as the animal-
cule is cut in two, the oval bodies are thruft out with fome degree of violence, from
the fpringing-back or action of this bowel. An hundred and upwards of the young
ones have been feen to iffue from the body of one Angle eel, whereby the prodi-
gious increafe of them may be acounted for ; as probably feveral fuch numerous
generations are produced in a fliort time. Animalcules of a fimilar kind are like-
wife found in vinegar ;
and, like thofe already deferibed, are found to be vivipa-
rous, But it is not only in acid matters that fuch appearances are obferved. In
fome
64 A KEY TO PHYSIC
fome fields of wheat, many grains maybe obferved, that appear blackifii outwardly,
as iffcorched; but when opened, are found to contain a foft white fubftance, which,
attentively confidered, appears to be nothing elfe than a congeries of threads or
fibres, lying clofe to each other in a parallel diredtion, much refembling the unripe
dowm of fome thirties on cutting open the flower-heads before they begin to blow.
This fibrous matter difcovers not the leaft fign of life or motion, unlefs water is
applied : but immediately on wetting, provided the grains of wheat have been
newly gathered, the fuppofed fibres feparate, and appear to be living creatures.
Their motions at firfi; are very languid ;
but gradually become more adlive and vi-
gorous, twifting and wriggling themfelves fomewhat in the manner of the eels in
pafte, but ahvays flower and with lefs regularity.
3. The Proteus, fo called on account of its affuming a great number of different
fliapes, fo as fcarcely to be known as the fame animal in its various transformations;
and indeed, unlefs it be carefully watched wdiile paflingfrom one fliaj)e to another,
it will often become fuddenly invifible. When water, w-herein any fort of vegetable
has been infufed, or animals preferved, has flood quietly for fome days or weeks
in any glafs or other veffel, a flimy fubflance will be colledled about the fldes : fome
of which being taken up with the point of a pen-knife, placed on a flip of glafs in a
drop of w'ater, and looked at through the microfeope, wdll be found to harbour fe-
veral kinds of little animals that are feldom found fwimming about at large ;
among
which the proteus is one. Its fliape is better underflood from the following plate,
than from any defeription that could be given. Its fubflance and colour re-
femblethatof a fnail; and its whole fliape feems to bear a confiderable refemblance
to that of a fwan. It fwims to and fro with great vivacity : but will now and then
flop for a minute or two; during which time its long neck is ufually employed as far
as it can reach, forwards, and on every fide, with a fomewhat-flow but equable mo-
tion, like that of a fnake, frequently extending thrice the length of its body, and feem-
ingly in fearch of food. There are no eyes, nor any opening in the head like a mouth,
to be difeerned: but its adtions plainly prove it to be an animal that can fee; for,
though multitudes of different animalcules fwim about in tlie fame water, and its
owm progreflive motion is very fwift, it never ftrikes againfl any of them, but diredls
its courfe between them with a dexterity wholly unaccountable fliould we fuppofe it
deflituteof fight. When it is alarmed, it fuddenly draws in its neck, reprefentedin the
Plate at fig. 4 and 5. transforming itfelf into the fliape reprefented at fig. 6. when it
becomes more opaque, and moves about very flowly, with the large and foremofl.
When it has continued fome time in this poflure, it will often, inflead of the head
and neck it had formerly, put forth a new one, with a kind of wheel-machinery,
reprefented
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 65
reprefented at fig. 7. the motions of which draw a current of water to it from a con-
fiderable diftance. Having often pulled in and thruft out this fhort head, fometimes
w'ith and fometimes without the wheel-work, the creature, as if weary, will remain
motionlefs for a while; then its head and long neck will be very flowly protruded,
as at fig. 8. and it foon refumes its former agility. Sometimes it difpofes of its neck
and head as reprefented at fig. 9.
4. the Wheel-animal, or Vorticella. This wonderful animalcule is found in rain-
water that has ftood fome days in leaden gutters, or in hollows of lead on the tops
of houfes, or in the flime or fediment left by fuch water ;
and peidiaps may alfo be
found in other places; but, if the w'ater Handing in gutters of lead, or the fediment
left behind it, has any thing of a red colour in it, one may be almoft certain of
finding them therein. Though it difcovers no figns of life except when in the wa-
ter, yet it is capable of continuing alive for many months after it is taken out of
the water, and kept in a Hate as dry as duft. In this Hate it is of a gobular fliape,
exceeds not the bignefs of a grain of fand, and no figns of life appear ;
but, being
put into water, in the fpace of half an hour a languid motion begins, the globule
turns itfelf about, lengthens itfelf by flow degrees, affumes the form of a lively
maggot, and moft commonly in a few minutes afterwards puts out its wheels
;
fwimming vigoroufly through the water, as if in fearch of food ; or elfe, fixing
itfelf by the tail, works the wheels in fuch a manner as to bring its food to it. Fig.
10, 11, 12, and 13, Ihow the different appearances of its wheels; andfig. 14, and 15,
fliow its globular form. The moft remarkable part of this animalcule is its wheel-
work. This confifts of a couple of femicircular inftruments, round the edges of
which many little fibrillos move themfelves very brilldy, fometimes with a kind of
rotation, and fometimes in a trembling or vibrating manner. When in this ftate,
it fometimes unfaftens its tail, and fwims along with a great deal of fwiftnefs, feem-
ingly in purfuit of its prey. Sometimes the wheels feem to be entire circles, armed
with frnall teeth, like thole of the balance-wheel of a watch, appearing projected
forwards beyond the head, and extending lideways fomewhat wider than its diame-
ter. The teeth or cogs of thefe wheels feem to Hand very regularly at equal dif-
tances ;
but the figure of them varies according to their polition, the degree of their
protrufion, and perhaps the will of the animal itfelf. All the adlions of this crea-
ture feem to imply fagacity and quicknefs of fenfation. At the leaft touch or mo-
tion in the water, they inftantly draw in their wheels; and their eyes feem to be
lodged fomewhere about the wheels ;
becaufe, while in the maggot ftate, its mo-
tions are flow and blundering; but, after the wheels are protruded, they are per-
formed with great regularity, fwiftnefs, and fteadinefis,
No. 5. S Befides
66 A KEY TO PHYSIC
Befides the above, there are found in our waters feveral other fpecies of animals
furnifhed with wheels, fome of which appear to have a rotatory,^ and others a vi-
bratory, motion. Fig. 16. reprefents a kind found in the ditch at Norwich, where
the hair-like iiifedl is produced. They differ from the foregoing only in having
very long tails. Fig. 17, 18, and 19, reprefent a fpecies of wheel animals, whicii
are alfo covered with Ihells. The body of this fpecies confifts of three parts, in
like manner as the other; only the thorax and abdomen, in this, are not feparated
by any gut, or intermediate veffel, but are joined immediately together. The heart
is plainly perceived, having a regular fyftole and diaflole, at a a a, as in the former
fpecies. Tiiefe creatures occafionally draw themfelves entirely wnthin their fhells;
and the diell then appears terminated by fix fiort fpikes on one fide and two on the
other. The young ones of this fpecies are carried in oval facculi, or integuments,
faftened externally to the lower part of their fliells fomewhere about the tail. When
a young one is about to burft its integuments, the parent alfifts it greatly, by wag-
ging its tail, and ftriking the oval bag, fo that the young one’s head becomes as it
were forced into the water, though the tail cannot be fo foon difengaged. In this
condition the young one fets its wheel a-going, and exerts all its endeavours to free
itfelf from its confinement. When it has got clear, it fwims away, w'agging its
tail as the old one does, and leaving the integument adhering to the fiell of the
parent. Thefe wheel-animals are great tormentors of the w^ater-flea, of which a
figure is given in the plate. Fig. 20. fhows it magnified, wuth fome of the wheel-
animals adhering to it ; fig. 21. flows the natural fize of the flea. Thefe infedls
are often found in great numbers in the fame water; and, when that is the cafe,
it is not uncommon to difcover five or fix of thefe crufaceous wheel-animals faft-
ened by their tail to the fiell or horns of the flea : caufmg it, feemingly, a vaft deal
of uneafmefs ;
nor can they be driven away, or fiaken olf, by all the efforts the
flea can ufe for that purpofe.
5. The Bell-jiower Animal, or Plumed Polype. Thefe animalcules dwell in colo-
nies together, from ten to fifteen, (feldom falling fiort of the former number, or
exceeding the latter,
j
in a flimy kind of mucilaginous or gelatinous cafe ;
which
out of the w'ater has -no determined form, appearing like a little lump of flime;
but, when expanded therein, has fome refemblance to the figure of a bell with its
mouth upwards ;
and is ufually about half an inch long and a quarter of an inch in
diameter. Thefe bells, or colonies, are to be found adhering to the large leaves of
duckw'eed, and other aquatic plants. They may be moft eafily difcovered by let-
ting a quantity of water, with duckw^eed in it, ftand quietly for three or four hours
in glafs veffels in a window, or other place where a ftrong light comes ; for then,
if
67
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES.
if any are about the duckweed, they will be found, on careful infpedlion, extending
themfelves out of their cafes, and making an- elegant appearance. Befides the par-
ticular and feparate motion which each of thefe creatures is able to exert within its
own cafe, and independent of the reft ;
the whole colony together has a power of
altering the pofition of the bell, or even of removing it from one place to another ;
and hence this bell is fometimes found ftanding perfetftly upright, as at fig. 22. and
fometimes bending the upper part downwards. As thefe animalcules feem not to
choofe to ftay together in focieties whofe number exceeds fifteen, when the colony
happens to increafe in number, the bell m.ay be obferved to fplit gradually, begin-
ning from about the middle of the upper or anterior extremity, and proceeding
downwards towards the bottom, as at fig^ 23. till they at laft feparate entirely, and
become two complete colonies independent of each other, one of which fometimes
removes to another part of the veftel. The arms of each individual of this colony
are fet round the head, to the number of forty, having each the figure of an Italic /,
one of whofe hooked ends is faftened to the head, and all together, w'hen expand-
ed, compofe a figure ftiaped fomew’hat like a horfe’s fiioe, convex on one fide next
the body, but gradually opening and turning outwards, fo as to leave a confidera-
ble area within the outer extremities of the arms. When the arms are thus extend-
ed, the creature, by giving them a vibrating motion, can produce a current in the
w^ater, which brings the animalcules, or whatever other minute bodies are wdthin
the fphere of its a6lion, with great velocity to its mouth, fituated between the arms;
where they are taken in if liked, or driven away by a contrary motion. Though
their eyes c ann n't be difeovered, yet they have perception of the light: for, w^hen
kept in the dark, they- always remain contrafted ;
but, on being expofed to the
light of the fun or of a candle, they conftantly extend their arms, and ftiow evident
fi gns of being plea fed.
6. The Globe-animal. This animalcule, reprefented at fig. 24. fsems exadlly glo-
bular, having no appearance of either head, tail, or fins. It moves in all dire6lions,
forwards or backwards, up or down, either rolling over and over like a bowl, fpin-
ning horizontally like a top, or gliding along fmoothly without turning itfelf at all.
Sometimes its motions are flow, at other times very fwift ;
and, w'hen it pleafes,
it can turn round, as it were upon an axis, very nimbly, wfithout removing out of
its place. The whole body is tranfparent, except where the circular black fpots
are fliowmin the figure. Some df the aninfials have no fpots, and others from one
to feven. The furface of the w’hole body appears, in fome, as if all over dotted
with points ;
in others, as if granulated like fliagreen ; but their more general ap-
pearance is, asif befet thinly round with fliort moveable hairs or briftles, which
probably
A KEY TO PHYSIC
6S
probably are the inflruments by which their motions are performed. Thefe ani-
malcules may be feen by the naked eye, but appear only like moving points.
7. The Pipe-animal. Thefe creatures are found on the coaft of Norfolk, living
in fmall tubes or cafes of fandy matter, in fuch multitudes as to compofe a mafs
fometimes of three feet in length. Fig. 25. fliows a piece of fuch a congeries broke
off, where aaaa reprefent the mouths or openings of the pipes wherein the little
animals make their abode. Fig. 26. fliows one fingle pipe, with its inhabitant, fepa-
rated from the reft, and magnified nine or ten times in diameter. The pipe or cafe
b is made of fand, intermixed here and there with minute fliells, and all cemented
together by a glutinous flime, probably iffuing from the animal’s own body c, which
is compofed ofraufcular ringlets like thofe of a worm, capable of great extenfion or
contradlion. The anterior end or head, d, is exceedingly beautiful, having round it
a double row of little arms difpofed in a very regular order, and probably capable
of extenfion, in order to catch its food, aud bring it to its mouth. Some of thefe
tubes are found petrified.
8. An Infect with net-like arms. The properties and fhape of this little animal
are very extraordinary. It is found only in cafcades, where the water runs very fwift.
There thefe infedts are found in clufters, ftanding eredl on their tails; and refem-
bling, when all together, the combs of bees at the time they are filled with their
aurelias. On being taken out of the water, they fpin threads, by which they hang
exadlly in the fame manner as the garden-fpider. Fig. 27. Ihows one ofthefe infedls
magnified. Its body appears curioufly turned as on a lathe; and at the tail are
three fharp fpines, on which it raifes itfelf, and ftands upright in the water : but
the moft curious apparatus is about its head, where it is furniflied with two inftru-
ments like fans or nets, which ferve to provide its food. Thefe it frequently fpreads
out and draws in again ;
and when drawn up they are folded together with the ut-
moft nicety and exadtnefs, fo as to be indifcernible when brought clofe to the body.
At the bottom of thefe fans a couple of claw s are faftened to the lower part of the
head, which, every time the nets are drawm in, conduct to the mouth of the ani-
mal whatever is taken in them. Some of thefe creatures being kept with water
in a vial, moft of them died in two days; and the reft, having fpun themfelves'
tranfparent cafes, ( which were faftened either to the fides of the glafs, or to pieces
of grafs put into it,) feemed to be changed into a kind of chryfalia. None of them
lived above three days ;
and, though frefli water was given them two or three
times a-day, yet in a few hours it would ftink to a degree fcarcely conceivable, and
that too at feveral yards diftance, though, in proportion to the w'ater, all the in-
cluded infects were not more than as one to one million one hundred and fifty thou-
fand.
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 69
fand. This makes it probable, that it is neceflary for them to live in a rapid ftfeam,
left they fkould be poifoned by the effluvia ifluing from their own bodies, as no
doubt they were in the phial.
9. A curious aquatic worm. This animalcule is ftiown, magnified, at fig. 28.
It is found in ditch-water, and is of various fizes, from one fortieth to half an inch
in length. About the head it has fomewhat of a yellowifti colour; but all the reft
of the body is perfedlly colourlefs and tranfparent, except the inteftinesr, which are
confiderably opaque, and difpofed as in the figure. Along its fides are feveral
papillae, with long hairs growing from them: it has two black eyes, and is very
nimble. But the moft remarkable thing in this creature, is a long horn or probofcis
;
which, in the large ones, may be feen with the naked eye, if the water is clear, and
is fornetimes one tenth of an inch in length ; this it waves to and fro as it moves
in the water, or creeps up the fide of the glafs; but it is not known whether it i|
hollow, or of what ufe it is to the creature itfelf.
10. Spermatic Animals and Auimalcula Injtiforia. The difcovery of living ani-
malcules in the femen of moft animalsj is claimed by Leeuwenhoek, a Dutch natu-
turalift. According to this naturalift, thefe animalcules are found in the male feed
of every kind of animal ;
but their general appearance is very much the fame, nor
doth their fize differ in proportion to the bulk of the animal to which they belong.
The bodies of all of them feem to be of an oblong oval form, with long tapering
flender tails iffuing from them : and, as by this fliape they referable tadpoles, they
have been frequently called by that name; though the tails of them., in proportion
to their bodies, are much longer than the tails of tadpoles are: and it is obfervable,
that the animalcules in the feed of fifties have tails much longer and more flender
than the tails of thofe in other animals; infomuch, that the extremity of them is
not to be difcerned without the beft glaffes, and the utmoft attention. Fig. 29, a,
b} c, d, reprefentthe fpermatic animalculaof the rabbit; and fig. 30, e, jf, g, h, thofe
found in the feed of a dog. The numbers of thefe animalcula are inconceivable;
On viewing with a microfcope the milt or feed of a male cod-fifti, innumerable
multitudes of animalcules are found therein, of fuch a diminutive fize, that at leaft
ten thoufand of them are capable of being contained in the bulk of a grain of fand
;
whence it is concluded, that the milt of this Angle fifti contained more living ani-
malcules than there are to be found people living in the whole world. To find the
comparative fize of thefe animalcules, Mr. Leeuwenhoek placed a hair of his head
near them; which hair, through his microfcope, appeared an inchin breadth; and
he was fatisfiedj that at leaft fixty fuch animalcules could eafily lie within that dia-
meter; whence, their bodies being fpherical, it follows, that two hundred and fix-
No. 5. T teen
A KEY TO PHYSIC
7d
teen thoufand of them are but equal to a globe whofe diameter is the breadth of a
hair. He obferved, that, when the water wherewith he had diluted the feed of a
cod-fidi w'as exhaled, the little bodies of the animalcules burft in pieces ;
which did
not happen to thofe in the feed of a ram : and this is imputed to the greater firmnefs
and confiftency of the latter, as the flefli of a land animal is more compaft than fifli.
Thefe animalcules appear to be very vigorous and tenacious of life; for they may
be obferved to move long after the animal from w’hich they are taken is dead. They
have this peculiarity alfo, that they are continually in motion, without the leaft reft
or intermiffion, provided there is fluid fufficient for them tofwim about in. Thefe
animalcules are only peculiar to the feed; nothing that has the leaft token of life
being difcoverable by the beft glafles, either in the blood, fpittle, urine, gall, or
chyle. Great numbers, however, are to be found in the whitifti matter that fticks
between our teeth; fome of which are of an oval figure, and others refemble eels.
The Animalcula Infuforia take their name from their being found in all kinds
either of vegetable or animal infufions. Indeed, there is fcarcely any kind of water,
unlefs impregnated with fome mineral fubftance, but what will difcover living
creatures. Leeuwenhoek fays, that at firft he could difcern no living creatures in
rain water; but, after Handing fome days, he difcovered innumerable animalcules,
many thoufands of times lefs than a grain of fand, and in proportion to a mite as
a bee is to a horfe. In other rain-water, which had likewife flood fome time, he
found the fmalleft fort he had ever feen; and, in a few days more, met with others
eight times as big as thefe, and almoft round. In another quantity of rain-water,
that had been expofed like the former, he difcovered a kind of animalcules with
two little horns, in continual motion. The fpace between the horns was flat,
though the body was roundifii, but tapering a little towards the end; where a tail
appeared, four times as long as the body, and the thicknefs of a fpider’s web.
He obferved feveral hundreds of thefe w'ithin the fpace a grain of fand would oc-
cupy. If they happened on the leaft filament or firing, they were entangled in it;
and then would extend their bodies into an oblong round, and ftruggle hard to
difengage their tails. He obferved a fecond fort, of an oval figure, and imagined
the head to Hand at the fliarpeft end. The body was flat, with feveral frnall feet,
moving exceeding quick, but not difcernible without a great deal of attention.
Sometimes they changed their lliape inko a perfeft round, efpecially when the water
began to dry away. He met alfo with a thii'd fort, twice as long as broad, and
eight times fmaller than the firft
:
yet in thefe he difeerned little feet, whereby they
moved very nimbly. He perceived likewife a fourth fort, a thoufand times fraedler
than a loufe’s eye, and which exceeded all the reft in briflinefs : he found thefe
turning
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 71
turning themfelves round, as it were upon a point, with the celerity of a top. And
he fays, there were feveral other forts. The produftion of animalculainfiiforia is
very furprihng. In four hours time, an infufion of cantharides has produced ani-
malculalefs than even the tails of the fpermatic animals we have already defcribed.
Neither do they feem to be fubje^f to the fate of other animals; but, feveral kinds
of them at leaft, by dividing themfelves in two, to enjoy a fort of immortality. Nor
do the common methods by which other animals aredeftroyed, feem to beeffe61:ual
for deftroying their vital principle. Hot mutton-gravy, fecured in a phial with a
cork, and afterwards fet among hot allies, to deftroy as effedlually as poffible every
living creature that could be fuppofed to exift in it, has neverthelefs been found
fwarming with animalcules, after Handing a few days. In the Philofophical Tranf-
adlions, vol. lix. we have a ve.-y curious account, given us by Mr. Ellis, of animal-
cules produced from an infufion of potatoes and of hemp-feed.
“On the i^5th of May, 176iS, Fahrenheit’s thermometer feventy degrees, I boiled
a potatoe in, the New-River w'ater, till it was‘ reduced to a mealy confiftence. I
put part of it, with an equal proportion of the boiling liquor, into a cylindrical
glafs velfel, that held fomething lefs than half a wine pint, and covered it clofe
immediately with a glafs cover. At the fame time I fliced an unboiled potatoe,
and, as near as I could judge, put the fame quantity into a glafs velfel of the fame
kind ;
with the fame proportion of New-lliver water not boiled ;
and covered it
with a glafs cover; and placed both velfels clofe to each other. On the twenty-
fixth of May, twenty-four hours afterw'ards, I examined a fmall drop of each, by
the firfi; magnifier of Wilfon’s microfcope, whofe focal diftance is reckoned at the
fiftieth part of an inch ;
and, to my amazement, they were both full of animalcules
of a linear lhape, very diftinguifhable, moving to and fro with great celerity; fo
that there appeared to be more particles of animal than vegetable life in each drop.
This experiment I have repeatedly tried, and always found it to fucceed in pro-
portion to the heat of the circumambient air; fo that even in winter, if the liquors
are kept properly warm, at leaft in two or three days the experiment will fucceed.
What I have obferved are infinitely fmaller than fpermatic animals, and of a very
different fhape: the truth of which every accurate obferver will foon be convinced
of, whofe curiofity may lead him to compare them; and I am perfuaded he will
find they are no way akin. At prefent I fiiall pafs over many other curious ob-
fervations, which I have made on two years experiments, in order to proceed to
the explaining a hint which I received laft January from M. de Sauffure, of Geneva,
w’hen he was here; which is, that he found one kind of thefe animalcula infuforia
thatincreafe by dividing acrofs into nearly two equal parts. I had often feenthis
appearance
A KEY TO PHYSIC
appearance in various fpecies a year or two ago, as I found upon looking over the
minutes I had taken \\hen I made any new obfervation; but always fuppofed the
animal, when in this ftate, to be in coition. Not hearing, till after M. de Sauffure
left this kingdom, from what infufion he had made his obfervation, his friend
Dr. de la Roche, of Geneva, informed me, the latter end of February laft, that
it was from hemp-feed. I immediately procured hemp-feed from different feeds-
men, in diffant parts of the town. Some of it I put into New-River water, fome
into diftilled w ater, and fome I put into very hard pump-w^ater. The refult was.
that in proportion to the heat of the weather, or the warmth in wdiich they were
kept, there w as an appearance of millions of minute animalcula in all the infufions;
and, fome time after, fome oval opes made their appearance. Thefe were much
larger than the firft, which ftill continued; they wriggled to and fro in an undu-
latoiy motion, turning themfelves round very quick all the time that they moved
forw^ards. Nothing more plainly fhows thefe animals to be zoophytes than this
circumftance; that when, by accident, the extremity of their bodies has been fliri-
velled for w ant of a fupply of frefli water, the applying more frefli water has given
motion to the part of the animal that was ftill alive; by which means, this fliapelefs
figure has continued to live and fwim to and fro all the- time it was fupplied with
frefli water.”—Thus we have given as full an account as our limits would admit, of
the moft curious kind of animalcules that have hitherto been obferved. We can-
not, however, difrnifs this fubjedt, without taking notice of the animalcules found
in tlie feed of man.
Before the invention of microfcopes, the dodtrine of equivocal generation, both
with regard to animals and plants of fome kinds, was univerfally received ; but this
inftrument foon convinced every intelligent perfon, that thofe plants which for-
merly were fuppofed to be produced by equivocal generation, arofe from feeds;
and the animals, in like manner, from a male and female. But, as the microfcope
threw light upon one part of nature, it left another involved in darknefs: for the
origin of the animalcula infuforia, or of the fpermatic animals already mentioned,
remains as much unknown, as that of many other kinds was, when the dodlrineof
equivocal generation reigned in full force.
The difcovery of fpermatic animalcules was thought to throw fome light on the
myfterious affair of generation itfelf^ and thefe minute creatures were imagined to
be each of them individuals of the fame fpecies with the parent. Here the infinite
number of thefe animalcules was an objedlion, and the difficulty remained as great
as before; for, as every one of thefe animalcules behoved to be produced from a
male and female, to explain their origin by animalcular generation in the fame
manner,
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 73
manner, was only explaining generation by itfelf. This hypothefis, therefore, hav-
ing proved unfatisfa^ory, others have been invented, but which are likewife in-
volved in doubt. M. Buffon, however, fo far as concerns human generation, has
given fuch a particular account of the animalcules in the feed of man, that we fhall
Hate it here, for the information of the curious.
Having procured the private parts of a man who died a violent death, he extra6l-
ed all the feed from them while they were ftill warm: and having examined a drop
of it with a double microfcope, it had the appearance as in the Plate, at fig. 3
1
.
Large filaments appeared, which in fome places fpread out into branches, and in
others intermingled with one another. Thefe filaments clearly appeared to be agi-
tated by an internal undulatory motion, like hollow tubes which contained fome
moving fubilance. He faw diftindlly this appearance changed for that at fig. 32.
Two of thefe filaments, which were joined longitudinally, gradually feparated from
each other in the middle, alternately approaching and receding, like two tenfe cords
fixed by the ends, and drawn afunder in the middle. Thefe filaments were com-
pofed of globules that touched one another, and refembled a chaplet of beads.
After this, he obferved the filaments fvyelled in feveral places, and perceived fmall
globular bodies ilfue from the fwelled parts, which had a vibratory motion like a
pendulum. Thefe fmall bodies were attached to the filaments by fmall threads,
which gradually lengthened as the bodies moved. At laft, the fmall bodies detached
themfelves entirely from the filaments, drawing after them the fmall thread, which
looked like a tail. When a drop of the feminal liquor was diluted, thefe fmall bo-
dies moved in all direftions very brifidy. The feminal matter was at firft too thick,
but gradually became more fluid; and, in proportion as its fluidity increafed, the
filaments difappeared, but the fmall bodies became exceedingly numerous. Each
of them had a long thread or tail attached to it, from which it evidently endeavoured
to get free. Their progreffive motion was extremely flow, during which they vi-
brated to the right and left; and at each vibration they had a rolling unfteady mo-
tion in a vertical diredtion.
At the end of two or three hours, the feminal matter becoming ftill more fluid, a
greater number of thefe moving bodies appeared. They were then more free of
incumbrances; their tails were fhorter; their progreffive motion was more dire6t,
and their horizontal motion greatly diminiflied. In five or liJc hours, the feed had
acquired almoft all the fluidity it could acquire without being decompofed. Moft
of the fmall bodies were now difengaged from their threads? their figure was oval;
they moved forward with confiderable quicknefs, and, by their irregtilar motions
backward and forward, they had now more than ever the appearance of animals.
No. 5. U '
Thofe
74 A KEY TO PHYSIC
Thofe that had tails adhering to them, feemed to have lefs vivacity than the others;
and of thofe that had no tails, fome altered both their figure and their fize. In
twelve hours, the feed had depofited at the bottom of the vial a kind of afli-coloured
gelatinous fubftance, and the fluid at top was almoft as tranfparent as water. The
little bodies, being now entirely freed from their threads, moved with great agility,
and fome of them turned round their centres. They alfo often changed their
figures, from oval becoming round, and often breaking into finaller ones. Their
activity always increafed as their fize diminiflied. In twenty-four hours the feed
had depofited a greater quantity of gelatinous matter, winch, being with fome dif-
ficulty diluted in water, exhibited an appearance fomewhat refembling lace. In
the clear feed itfelf, only a few fmall bodies w^ere now feen moving ; next day,
thefe were ftill farther diminiflied; and after this nothing was to be feen but glo-
bules, without the leafi; appearance of motion. All the above-mentioned appear-
ances in the feed of man, are fliown in the Plate, at fig. 33, 34, S5, 36, 37, and 38.
Pig. 39 and 40 reprefent an appearance of the globules in another experiment, in
w'hich they arranged themfelves in troops, and palfed very quickly over the field
of the microfcope ; in this experiment tey were found to proceed from a fmall
quantity of gelatinous mucilage, depofited by the feed.
An obje6tion has, however, been made to the exiftence of animalcules in the feed,
or in any other part of animal bodies, from the total exclufion of air, which is found
fo neceffary to the life of larger animals. Many infiances, however, have been ob-
ferved of large animals being found in fuch fituatioiis as they could not pofiibly have
enjoyed the leafi benefit from the air for a great number of years ;
and in this fiate
have not only lived, but lived much longer than they w’ould otherwife have done.
In Toulon harbour, and the road, are found folid hard fiones, and perfe6lly en-
tire, containing, in different cells, fecluded from all communication with the air,
feveral living fhell-fifli, of an exquifite tafte, called claByli. To come at thefe
fifh, the fiones are broken with mauls. Alfo, along the coaft of Anconia, in the
Adriatic, are fiones ufually weighing about fifty pounds, and fometimes even more;
the outfide rugged, and eafily broken, but the infide fo hard as to require a ftrong
arm and an iron maul to break them ; within them, and in feparate niches, are
found fmall fliell-fifh, quite alive, and very palatable, called fulenes, or cappe lunghe.
Thefe fafts are attefied by Gaffendi, Blondel, Mayol, the learned bifliop of Sultu-
rara; and more particularly by Aldrovandus, a phyfician of Bologna. The tw’o
latter fpeak of it as a common fa6l which they themfelves faw.
In the volume for the year 1719, of the Memoirs of the Academy of Sciences
at Paris, is the following palfage :
“ In the foot of an elm, of the bignefs of a pretty
corpulent
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 75
corpulent man, three or four feet above the root, and exa6tly in the centre, has
been found a live toad, middle-fized, but leaoj and filling up the whole vacant
fpace ; no fooner was a paffage o))ened by fplitting the wood, that it fcutlled away
very haftily : a more firm and found elm never grew ;
fo that the toad cannot be
fuppofed to have got into it. The egg or fpawn whence it was formed, muft, by
fome very fingular accident, have been lodged in the tree at its firft growth. There
the creature had lived without air, feeding on thefubftance of the tree, and grow-
ing only as the tree grew. This is attefted by Mr. Hubert, profelfor of philofophy
at Caem”
The volume for the year 1731 has a fimilar obfervation, expreffed in thefe words-:
— “ In 1719,
we gave an account of a fa6l, which, though improbable, was well at-
tefted ;
that a toad had been found living and growing in the trunk of a middling
elm,, without any way for the creature to come out or to have got in. M. Seigne, of
Nantes, lays before the academy a fa6t juft of the very fame nature, except that
inftead of an elm it w'as an oak, and larger than the elm, which ftill heightens the
wonder. Ho judges, by the time requifite for the growth of the oak, that the toad
muft have fubfifted in it, without air or any adventitious aliment^ during eighty or
one hundred years.. M. Seigne feems to have.known nothing of the fa6t in 1719.”
With the two foregoing may be claffed a narrative of Ambrofe Pare, chief fur-
geon to Henry III. king of France, who, being a very fenfible writer, relates the
following fa6l, of which he w'as an eye-witnefs:—“ Being (fays he) at my feat,
near the village of Meudon,. and overlooking a quarry-man whom I had fet to
break fome very large arid hard ftones ;
in the middle of one we found a huge
toad, full of life, and without any vifible aperture by which it could get there, I
began to wonder how it received birth, had grown and lived : but the labourer
told me, it was not the firft time he had met with a toad, and the like creatures,
within huge blocks of ftone, having no vifible opening or fiffure.”
Obfervations of living toads, found in very hard and entire ftones, occur in fe-
veral authors, particularly Baptift Fulgofa, doge of Genoa, the famous phyficians
Agricola and Horftius, and Lord Verulam ;
others give very fpecious accounts of
fnakes, frogs, crabs, and lobfters,, being found alive,, inclofed within blocks of mai^
ble, rocks, and large ftones.
An inftance fimilar to thefe, of the truth of which we have no reafon to doubt,
was obferved in this country in the year 1773, where a large toad was found in
the middle of a piece of coal^ having not the leaft vifible crack or fiffure.
Thus much as to the faculty of fome animals to live without air.
Upon the whole, though philofophers are not yet able to difcover how very mi-
nute creatures are produced ;
yet, that there really are animals much fmaller than
what
76 A KEY TO PHYSIC
what we can difcern with our naked eye, feems to be indifputable. And the fub-
je<5t evidently requires the utmoft attention of philofophers, as well as further im-
provements in the conftrudtion of microfcopes, fully to inveftigate and explain it.
—Moft naturalifts fuppofe another fpecies or order of invilible animalcules, fuch
as efcape the cognizance even of the beft microfcopes, and give many probable
conje6lures in relation to them. Reafon and analogy give fome fupport to the
exiftence of infinite imperceptible animalcules. The naked eye takes in from the
elephant to the mite ;
but there commences a new order, referved only for the
microfcope, which comprehends all thofe from the mite to thofe twenty-feven
millions of times fmaller; and this order cannot be yet faid to be exhaufted, if the
microfcope be not arrived at its laft and higheft perfection.
Animalcules are the caufe of various diforders. The itch, from feveral expe-
riments, is a diforder arifing from the irritations of a fpecies of infeCt found in
the puflules of that diforder, (the Acarus exulcerans;) whence the communication
of it by contact from one to another is eafily conceived; as alfo the reafon of the
cure being effeCted by external applications. Many other cutaneous eruptions,
often fuppofed to originate in the blood, are nothing more than fettlements made
by colonies of thefe invifible beings. A fwarm of them light upon the fkin, and,
finding in its pores a comfortable habitation, foon produce a punCture, with fcabs
and irritation. But this is not the worft. Obfervation has long convinced me that
a variety of internal complaints in the flomach, pancreas, lungs, liver, and intef-
tines, are brought on by fwallowing myriads of thefe, and other imperceptible
living creatures, which inhabit raw vegetables and foul water; and, finding the
heat and food of the ftomuch congenial to their growth, they become a new fpe-
cies, of an alarming fize, and ,
prey upon the vital parts, to the great detriment of
the patient’s health, and oftentimes at the expenfe of his life, before the malady
can be known, qt even fufpeCled.
A patient of mine, a young man near eighteen years of age, had been a confider*-
able time in a confumptive habit, and difordered in the ftomach ;
and notwithftand-
ing he had the advice of feveral eminent phyficians, and had taken a variety of
medicines, he never found the fmalleft alleviation of his pain. Upon enquiring
into the nature of his food for fome time before, he told me he came from a village
near Bridport, in Dorfetfhire, M^hich abounds with water-crelfes, and on thefe he had
fed almoft daily for fome months previous to his coming to London. I gave him
three emetics fucceffively, with a view to cleanfe the ftomach from all flime, phlegm,
and undigefted food; and immediately after the laft had operated, he took a ftrong
dofe, undiluted, of my Solar TinClure. In lefs than ten minutes it brought up an
animal of the moft hideous form, which at firft appeared incapable of motion, be-
ing
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 77
ing overcome by the flrength of the medicine ;
but, on putting it into a bafon of
warm water, it quickly recovered, and fent forth a fet of tentacles or claws, which,
though greatly enlarged, and diverfely altered, foon convinced me it muft originally
have been a fhoot from the frefh-water polypus ;
that, on leaving the parent animal,
it had attached iifelf to a root or leaf of the water-creffes which this young man
unfortunately fwallowed. And it appeared further, that thefe tentacles or claws
had been fo ftrongly affixed to the bowels or coats of the ftomach, as to have defied
the poAver of all common remedies to remove them. Tho patient happily found
immediate relief, and is now healthy and robuft.
From feveral other patients, apparently in confumptions, or afflicted with naufea,
or uncommon fenfations in the ftomach and bowels, I have brought away living
animals that w ould terrify many people to look upon ; and which muft have come
from the fpawn, or eggs, of minute animals, taken in with the food. For this rea-
fon I w'ould admonifli all my readers to have the utmoft care taken in the wafliing
and cleanfing of fallads, water-crefles, and all raw vegetables ;
and particularly to
guard againft the long red worm which almoft continually lies concealed in the very
heart or centre of a head of celery. The fame caution is neceffary in eating all
kinds of fruit ;
fince nothing much more abounds with animalcules, and various
living creatures. Cold raw' water, particularly when ftagnant, ought never to be
drunk. It is ever the fafeft w'ay to boil your water, before it be ufed in the com-
pofition of any kind of beverage, or even to drink alone.
I might here adduce many other inftances of perfons having engendered living
creatures in their bowels, by fwallowing the eggs or fpawn of the parent animal.
A young man, fervant to Lord Stawell, at Holt-park near Farnham, Surry, had
eaten voracioufly of w'ater-creffes. Some time afterwards he went into a decline,
and complained of a continual fenfation of pain at the pit of his ftomach, w'hich no
medicine could remove. His lordftiip, having a value for the man, fent him to
town for the advice of the moft able phyficians ; but ftill to no purpofe. He w'as
in this ftate fent home to his friends, and given over as a loft and incurable
cafe. In this ftage feme ftrong emetics were given him by a country apothecary
;
and he threw up, to the amazement of all the country round, an incredible
number of fmall tadpoles, which w'ere evidently the production of fpawn attached
t© the water-creffes, eaten without care, and perhaps without w'afliing. The patient
recovered rapidly, and in lefs than a month was able to refume his former
avocation.
But a ftill more extraordinary cafe happened in the county of Hants, in the
year 1792, of a girl about fourteen years of age, who found a moft uncommon
fenfation in her ftomach and bowels, and could plainly feel and diftinguifti fome-
No. 6. X thing
A KEY TO PHYSIC
thing alive, and moving within her. The girl’s defcription was for fome time
treated as a chimera. At laft, however, Ihe brought up a living toad ! This un-
queftionably mull have been taken into her ftomach in that ftate of the fpawn
which is juft emerging to tadpoles, and was attributed to her eating water-creffes,
which had long been a common food with her. Nothing could have faved her from
poifon, but the creature having been bred and nourifhed up as it were in her own
body, and had afiimilated fo much with the nature thereof as to have thus long
proved harmlefs. It is however certain, that, had it not been thus timely brought
away, flie muft very foon have died.
Animalcules are the moft common caufes of foul and rotten teeth. They attack
the roots below the enamel, which they perforate, and in a iliort time form crufta-
tions or fcales round the teeth, as hard as ftones ;
but which are nothing more than
a congeries or cruftaceous fliell, which thefe little animals inhabit, and are probably
formed of the fine particles falling from the teeth during their perforations, ce-
mented together by a glutinous flimy matter iffuing from their own bodies, which
are compofed of ringlets like a worm. Hence too we difcover the true caufe of
foetid or ftinking breath ;
for, when thefe little eels have made their way to the
marrow, or internal part, of the tooth, the whole crown foon becomes rotten, and
the marrow fends forth a putrid effluvia, fomewhat fimilar, but much more offenfive,
than the animalcules in ftinking cheefe. Thefe circumftances feem to be but
little known to the generality of dentifts and operators on the teeth ;
otherwife I
am perfuaded their mode of pradlice would be widely different. Inftead of apply-
ing powders and dentifrices calculated to deftroy thefe little worms, they prepare
fuch as multiply and nourifli them ; of which any perfon may be convinced, who
will take the pains to make a few^ fimple experiments. Let the roots of the teeth
be fcraped, and the matter collected from them put into a few drops of any denti-
frice or tooth-tin6lure, particularly of the aromatic kind. If viewed with a mi-
crofcope, it will be feen that the animalcules or eels found in this matter will move
about with great celerity, as if delighted with the liquor ;
and, in proportion as it
evaporates or dries away, the animals appear diffatisfied and become very uneafy.
Happening to have a patient who had a very bad fet of teeth, he fuffered me to
make fome experiments upon them. I took off a few of the fcales, and emerged
them in a fmall quantity of fpring water. It was quickly filled with the little eels
or animalcules ;
but imparted no ill fmell. I examined the fcales with the mi-
crofcope, and found them full of pores, out of which thefe invifible animals were
Iffuing. I then took out as much of the foul matter from the cavities of his hollow
teeth as I could conveniently get at ;
and, the moment I put it in the water, it be-
came foetid, and fent forth an offenfive fmell. Viewing it with the microfcope, the
animals
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 79
animals appeared in the fame fliape as the former, but quite opaque, and the internal
canal much fuller, and more diftended. I poured into the water a few drops of my
Solar Tincture, and in lefs than five minutes all motion ceafed, and they were
quite dead. This induced me to perfuade the man to wafh his teeth and gums well
with the Solar Tincture. He did fo ;
and I then took off more of the fcales, and
colledted all the matter I could from the rotten teeth ;
but very few living animal-
cules could be found therein, and the foetid frnell was confiderably abated. He
continued to wafh his mouth with the Tindlure every other day for a week, and
then ufed the following preparation : Chalk finely powdered, burnt hartfliorn le-
vigated, Florentine orris-root, and myrrh, of each two drams ;
fpirit of fait, fix
drops ;
the whole mixed into a fine powder. With this he rubbed his teeth every
third day, with a foft brufli, and in lefs than three weeks his black fet of teeth be-
came beautifully white ;
his breath fweet ;
and his gums hard and firm ; and he has
ever fince continued them fo by the fimple means above defcribed. I am no
dentift ;
what I have ftated was matter of mere accident : but I would caution all
my readers againfl too free a ufe of thofe numerous powders and preparations con-
tinually recommended for the teeth. Inftead of preferving them, they have too
often the diredl contrary tendency, by deftroying the whole fet. The world how-
ever is fond of tooth-powders; and a moderate ufe of fome of them may be of fervice;
but the daily rubbing does more injury to the teeth than wholly neglecting them.
Fine levigated powders may be prudently ufed once in fix or feven days, to keep the
teeth white and fplendid. But the generality of powders prepared for this purpofe
are much too hard, and wear away the gums, as well as the enamel of the teeth.
Yet, notwithftanding the danger of thefe preparations, it is a very defirable thing to
be enabled to preferve the beauty and foundnefs of the teeth, from infancy to old
age. For this purpofe I would advife, that children fliould be accufiomed to walh
their teeth every morning wdth common water, and a foft tooth-brufh; and after
meals to rince the mouth, and rub the teeth with their fingers, where a brulh can-
not conveniently be ufed. Thofe who conftantly purfue this method, may expedt
to be free from rotten teeth, putrid flough, external difeolou rations, flaccid gums,
and pain and loofenefs of the teeth, arifing from the animalcules which prey upon
them. When teeth have been negledled for a time, and fcales and cruftations are
affixed to them, thefe fhould be removed by inftruments, and the teeth and gums
well waflied with a pow'erful infinuating tindlure, to kill the animalcules ; then the
teeth fhould be rubbed with a fine teftaceous powder, in order to remove the difeo-
louration. When the enamel is become perfedlly clean, white, and poliflied, even
this fine powder fhould be ufed very fparingly, and at diftant intervals. The colour
and
A KEY TO PHYSIC
$0
and fweetnefs are only to be preferved by frequent brufliing and wadiing. The
common trick of dentifts is to give a wafii that infiantly cleanfes and whitens the
teeth, the fudden effeids of which are apt to furprife and pleafe people; but their
confequences are very pernicious. All the acid fpirits will do this ;
but they deftroy
the enamel, and rot the teeth. The fafeft liquid to take off black, green, and yellow',
difcolorations, is the following ; Take plantane water, an ounce ;
honey of rofes,
two drams ;
fpirit of fait, ten drops : mix the w hole together, and rub the teeth
well with a linen rag dipped in the mixture, every day till they are perfectly white.
If the roots of the teeth are very foul, inclined to grow rotten, and furrounded
w ith fcales and cruftations, I lliould by all means recommend them to be well
wadied with the Solar Tinblure, which wall Hop them from further decay, entirely
remove the fcurvy from the gums, and perfe6lly fw'eeten the breath.
The form, difpofition, and order, of the teeth, are admirable ;
and furnifh us with
a noble inftance of the wifdom and goodnefs of the Creator; the foremoft are weak,
and far from the centre, as being only preparers to the reft; the others, being to
grind and mafticate, are accordingly ftronger, and placed near the centre of motion.
Their peculiar hardnefs is very remarkable, confidering the tender fubftance they
are formed of. Again, their various forms, in various creatures, are no lefs con-
ftderable, being all curioufly adapted to the peculiar food and occafions of the
different fpecies of animals. Thus in the rapacious, they are fitted for the catching,
holding, and tearing, the prey ;
in herbaceous, for the gathering and comminution
of vegetables ;
and in fuch as have no teeth, as birds, the' bill fupplies the defe6l.
Add to this, that the temporary defeft of them is no lefs obfervable in fome : that
children, for inftance, fliould have none while they are not able to ufe them, but
to hurt themfelves or the mother ;
and that, at the very age when they can take in
the more fubftantial food, and live without the breaft, and begin to need teeth for
the help of fpeech, that then their teeth fliould begin to appear, and gradually
grow', as they more and more ftand in need of them ;
and that, when this firft crop
are worn out or decayed, they fliould be fucceeded by a new fet, more firm and du-
rable than the former. Nature, indeed, fometimes deviates from the ordinary rule
;
according to the conftru6lion of the elementary influx then operating, as is fliown at
large in my llluftration of the Occult Sciences ;
whence we have inftances of per-
fons born with all their teeth, as Marcus Curius Dentatus and Cneius Papirius
Carbo ; others have only had one continued tooth, reaching the whole length of the
jaw, as Pyrrhus king of Epirus, and Prufias fon of the king of Bithynia. A
German phyfician, named Mentrelius, affures us, that he faw an old man at Cleves,
in 1066,
aged a hundred and twenty years, who had a new fet of teeth only two
years
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 81
years before, which were cut with great painj and he alfo faw an Engliihman at
the Hague, who cut a new fet of teeth in his hundred and eighteenth year. To
the fame purpofe Dr. Slare mentions a relation, who had all his teeth at eighty
years of age, and afterwards ihed them, and had a new fet all round. See Phil,
Tranf. Abr. vol. v. p. 353.
Of instinct.
INSTINCT is an occult power or difpofition of the mind, by which animals are
unerringly directed to do fpontaneoufly whatever is neceffary for the prefervation
of the individual, or the continuation of the fpecies. From this caufe, all the
actions of brutes, or inferior animals, are faid to be directed by inJtinB ; but thofe
of man by reafon. Philofophers, however, have greatly differed in their opinions
concerning this fubjeft ;
and modern authors are extremely at a lofs where to draw
the line. Some maintain that man i& endowed with a greater number of inftin^ts
than any fpecies of brutes whatever. Others infill, that in human nature there
is not any power or propenfity at all, which can properly be called inflin6live.
Some contend that brutes are guided wholly by an invariable inftinfit, without the
fmallefl: power of memory, or of any intelle6lual faculty ; whilfi; others infill, that
they polfefs a vegetative foul, diredled by a certain inllindl, capable of reafon, of
memory, and of experience.
With refpe6l to man, nothing can be more apparent, than that, as being the
microcofrn, or epitome of all created nature, he mull of neceffity partake of all
its elfential properties *
of which reafon and inJlinEt rank amongfl the foremoft.
Upon the flighteft refle6lion, it wdll be obvious to every reader, ihoXreafon can
never be exercifed but from experience ;
confequently, until man is arrived to a
certain degree of maturity, he mull be directed, in moll of the propenfities of na-
ture, by mere inflin6l. Thus an infant, a few moments after its birth, is diredled
by an inflin6live impulfe for its prefervation, to feek the bread:, and to fuck it
;
and to the fame caufe, in the earlier ftages of life, and in all favage uneducated
countries, are to be attributed the firfl fenfations or defires of copulation, not
from the pleafures of enjoyment, for they are then unknown; but from an impul-
five inftin6l, for the propagation of the fpecies. It has been infilled, that the
firft commerce of the fexes amongfl human beings is dire6led by reafon ; and the
arguments afligned for it are thefe ; that, as foon as the organs of generation in
either fex become fufficiently ripe for the purpofe intended by nature, they fym-
pathife with the fenfes, and are affedled with vibrations in the nerves, which rife
into pleafure above the power of controul, and are heightened by youth, health.
No, 6. Y grateful
82 A KEY TO PHYSIC
grateful aliment, imagination, ambition, fympathy, and various other involuntary
fenfations, which, under fuch circumftances, pervade the whole fyftem. And as
thefe organs are endued with a greater degree of fenfibility than the other parts,
both from their make, and the peculiar ftru6lure and difpofition of their nerves
;
from the great diftention of the mufcular fyftem and feed-veftels in males; as well
as from the extenfton of the clitoris and finufes of the uterus in females, which never
fail to take place about the time of puberty, the genital organs in both fexes be-
come fo extremely irritable, that reajon, being thereby awakened, directs and impels
to that a6t, by which alone the human fpecies can poflibly be continued, and the
works of an Omnipotent Creator carried on and conduced to the ends intended.
In the above ftatement, I am perfuaded every rational mind will agree, that the
word inJiinSi ought to have been fubftituted where that of reafon is ufed ;
becaufe in
civilized focietieswe are taught by reafon to overcome thofe inftin6live paftions, in-
ftead of having our reafon awakened by them ;
but we too often find that thefe in-
ftinftive paftions are proof againft both reafon and refolution, even in the moft
virtuous families, in all countries, and in the beft-regulated focieties. What ftiall
we fay then of that part of the human race which yet remains in a ftate of nature,
uncultivated, and unenlightened by any precepts of morality or fcience ? They
are fubjeft to the primary command, “ Increafe and multiply f and they obey it.
A couple of young favages go together for the jirji time, without any view to
offspring, without any knowledge of the pleafure to be derived from it, and with-
out any determinate idea at all ;
and, as we fee thefe means invariably purfued by
all animals, as well rational as irrational, without experience, and without inftruc-
tion, we muft refer the mutual defire of the fexes to a much higher principle than
can poftibly arife from human motives ;
and that principle can be nothing but in-
ftin6t. But as I ftiall have occafion to fpeak more at large on this fubjedl under
the article Love, when I come to treat of the affections and paftions of the mind,
and of the nature and perfections of Man, I ftiall in the interim proceed to ftiow,
that the inferior animals are directed by inftinCt to performances of the moft fur-
prifing kind ;
and are, within certain limits, endued with memory, and a reafoning
intellect.
The moft remarkable inftance of the power of inftinCt is obferved in the con-
ftruCtion of a honey-comb. Bees, it is well known, conftruCt their combs with
fmall cells on both fides, fit both for holding their ftore of honey, and for rearing
theh young. There are only three poftible figures of the cells, which can make
them all equal and fimilar, without any ufelefs interftices. Thefe are the equila-
teral triangle, the fquare, and the regular hexagon, Of the three, the hexagon is the
moft
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 83
moft proper, both for convenience and flrength. Bees, as if they knew this,
make their cells regular hexagons. As the combs have cells on both fides, the
cells may either be exa6lly oppofite, having partition againft partition, or the
bottom of a cell may reft upon the partitions between the cells on the other fide,
which will ferve as a buttrefs to ftrengthen it. The laft way is the beft for ftrength
;
accordingly the bottom of each cell refts againft the point where three partitions
meet on the other fide, which gives it all the ftrength poflible. The bottom of a
cell may either be one plane, perpendicular to the fide-partitions ; or it may be
compofed of feveral planes, meeting in a folid angle in the middle point. It is
only in one of thefe two w'ays that all the cells can be fimilar without lofing room.
And for the fame intention, the planes, of which the bottom is compofed, if there
be more than one, muft be three in number, and neither more nor fewer. It has
been demonftrated, that, by making the bottoms of the cells to confift of three
planes meeting in a point, there is a faving of material and labour no-way inconfi-
derable. The bees, as if acquainted w ith thefe principles of folid geometry, fol-
low' them moft accurately ;
the bottom of each cell being compofed of three planes,
which make obtufe angles with the fide partitions and with one another, and meet
in a point in the middle of the bottom ;
the three angles of this bottom being fup-
ported by three partitions on the other fide of the comb, and the point of it by the
common interfe6tion of thefe three partitions. One inftance more of the mathe-
matical Ikill difplayed in the ftru6lure of a honey-comb deferves to be mentioned.
It is a curious mathematical problem, at what precife angle the three planes which
compofe the bottom of a cell ought to meet, in order to make thegreateft poflible
faving of material and labour. This is one of thofe problems belonging to the
higher parts of the mathematics, which are called problems of maxima and minima.
The celebrated Maclaurin refolved it by a fluxionary calculation, which is to be
found in the Tranfa^tions of the Royal Society of London, and determined pre-
cifely the angle required. Upon the moft exa6l menfuration which the fubje6t
could admit, he afterwards found, that it is the very angle in which the three
planes in the bottom of the cell of a honey-comb do actually meet. If a honey-
comb were a work of human art, every man of common fenfe would conclude,
without hefitation, that he w'ho invented the conftru6lion muft have underftood
the principles on which it was conftru6led. We need not fay that bees know none
of thefe things. They work moft geometrically without any knowledge of geome-
try ; fomewhat like a child, who by turning the handle of an organ makes good
mufic without ,any knowledge of mufic. The art is not in the child, but in him
who made the organ. In like manner, when a bee makes its comb fo geometri-
cally,
M A KEY TO PHYSIC
cally, the geometry is not in the bee, but in that great Geometrician who made
the bee, and made all things in number, weight, and meafure. This places in a
moft ftriking point of view the difference betwixt inftindt and reafon. There are
no improvements made by man, but what we fee carried ftill further by fucceeding
generations ;
but in bees, and in all inferior animals, we fee precifely the fame
economy and contrivance now, in conftrudling their cells, building their nefts, lay-
ing up provifions, &c. as at the beginning ;
and that in all ages, and in all gene-
rations, they have neither improved, nor departed from, that fixed fyftem afiigned
to them by nature, for their prefervation and guidance ;
whereas men, adting by
reafon and fcience, improve from the labours and inventions of each other. Were
we to attribute reafon inftead of inftindt to bees, in the conftrudtion of their combs,
we fliould at the fame time admit them to be rational creatures, endued with think-
ing and reafoning faculties far fuperior to men ;
for the principle upon which the
honey-comb is conftrudled, is founded on thofe high departments of the mathema-
tics, w'hich were altogether unknown to the human race till the beginning of the
prefent century, and which at this moment are beyond the comprehenfion of nine-
tenths of mankind in the moft enlightened nations on earth. Hence it is plain that
the contrivance is not in the bees, but in the Creator of the bees, who diredts them,
and all brute creatures, to adt by an inftindt for their own immediate benefit, with-
out knowing the principles upon which they adt. And this is by no means contrary
to reafon ;
for we daily fee men, working under the diredtion of others of fuperior
underftanding, to effedl purpofes, and accomplifli ends, without having them felves
any idea^of either; and, if we look through the endlefs variety of human avoca-
tions, we ftiall find that the greater part of mankind feem deftined by God and
nature to be governed in this way. But to proceed
—
Caterpillars, when iliaken off a tree in every diredtion, inftantly turn round
towards the trunk, and climb up, though they had never formerly been on the fur-
face of the ground. This is a ftriking inftance of inftindt. On the tree, and not
upon the ground, the caterpillar finds its food. If therefore it did not turn and
climb up the trunk, it would inevitably perifii. The folitary wafp digs holes in
the fand, in each of which flie depofits an egg : flie colledts a few fmall green
worms, which flie rolls up in a circular form, and fixes in the hole in fuch a man-
ner that they cannot move. When the wafp-worm is hatched, it is amply ftored
with the food which nature has deftined for its fupport. The green worms are de-
voured in fucceffion; and the number depofited is exadlly proportioned to the time
neceffary for the grow th and transformation of the wafp-worm into a fly ;
then it
iffues from the hole, and is capable of procuring its own nourifliment. This in-
ftindl
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 85
flin6t of the parent-wafp is the more remarkable, that the feeds not upon flefh her-
felf. Birds of the fame fpecies, unlefs when reftrained by peculiar circumftances,
uniformly build their nefts of the fame materials, and in the fame form and fiituation,
though they inhabit,,very different climates ;
and the form and fituation are always
exadlly fuited to their nature, and calculated to afford them flielter and protedlion.
When danger, or any other circumftance peculiar to certain countries, renders a
deviation from the common form or fituation of nefts neceffary, that deviation is
made in an equal degree, and in the very fame manner, by all the birds of one fpe-
cies; and it is never found to extend beyond the limits of the country where alone it
can ferve any good purpofe. When removed by neceffity from their eggs, birds
return to them with hafte and anxiety, and ffiift them fo as to heat them equally;
and it is worthy of obfervation, that their hafte to return is always in proportion to
the coldnefs of the climate. Thus the oftrich in Senegal, where the heat is exceftive,
negledts her eggs during the day, but fits upon them in the night. At the Cape
of Good Hope, however, where the degree of heat is lefs, the oftrich, like other
birds, fits upon her eggs both day and night. In countries infefted with monkeys,
many birds, which in other climates build in buflies and clefts oftrees, fufpend their
nefts upon flender twigs, and thus elude the rapacity of their enemies.
The following is iemarkable.~A cat frequented a clofet, the door of which itas
faftened by an iron latch, A window was fituated near the door. When the door
was ftiut, the cat gave herfelf no uneafinefs. As foon as fhe was tired of her con^
finement, fhe mounted on the fill of the window, and with her paw dexteroufly
lifted the latch, and came out. This pradtice, which we are told continued for
years, muft have been the confequence of reafoning in particular ideas. It could
not be the effedl of inftindl; for inftindt is adapted only to a ftate of nature,, in
which cats have neither latches to lift nor doors to open ; and as it is not faid that
the animal attempted to lift the latches of other doors, we are not authorifed to
infer that this particular adlion was the confequence of reafoning in ideas enlarged
by abftradlion : the cat had repeatedly feen one door opened by an exertion which
fhe was capable of imitating. It is well known that crows feed upon feveral kinds
of flieil-fifh when within their reach; and that they contrive to break the Ihell by
raifing the fifh to a great height, and letting it drop upon a ftone or a rock. This may
perhaps be confidered as pure inftindt, diredting the animal to the proper means of
acquiring its food. But what is to be thought of the following, fadl, communi-
cated by a gentleman whofe veracity is unqueftioned, and who, being totally un-
acquainted with the theories of philofophers, has o-f courfe no favourite hypothefis
to fupport ? In the fpring of the year 17£^1, a pair of crows made their neft in a
tree, of w'hich there are feveral planted round his garden ;
and in his morning-walks
No. Z. he
86 A KEY TO PHYSIC
he had often been amufed by witneffmg furious combats between them and a cat.
One morning the battle raged more fiercely than ufual, till at laft the cat gave wav
and took flielter under a hedge, as if to wait a more favourable opportunity of re-
treating to the houfe. The crows continued for a fiiort time to make a threatening
noife ; but, perceiving that on the ground they could do nothing more than threaten,
one of them lifted a ftone from the middle of the garden, and perched with it on a
tree planted in the hedge, where fhe fat watching the motions of the enemy of her
young. As the cat crept along under the hedge, the crow accompanied her by
flying from branch to branch, and from tree to tree ;
and, when at laft pufs ven-
tured to quit her hiding-place, the crow, leaving the trees and hovering over her
in the air, let the ftone drop from on high on her back. That the crow on this
occafion reafoned, is felf-evident, and it feems to be little lefs evident, that the
ideas employed in herreafoning were enlarged beyond thofe which fhe had received
from her fenfes. By her fenfes flie may have perceived, that the fliell of a fifh’is
broken by a fall; but could her fenfes inform her, that a cat would be wounded or
driven off the field by the fall of a ftone? No ;
from the effe6tof the one fall pre-
ferved in her memory, flie muft have inferred the other by her power of reafoning.
As to the natural affe6lion of brutes, fays an ingenious writer, “ the more I re-
fle6t on it, the more I am aftonifhed at its effe6ts.” It feems t(jf awaken the paflions,
quicken the invention, and fliarpen the fagacity, of the brute creation. Thus a
hen, juft become a mother, is no longer that placid bird flie ufed to be, but with
feathers ftanding on end, wings hovering, and clocking note, fhe flies at every
thing which feems to threaten her brood. Dams wall throw themfelves in the way
of the greateft danger, in order to avert it from their progeny. Thus a partridge
will tumble along before a fportfman, in order to draw away the dogs from her
helplefs covey. In the time of nidification the moft feeble birds will affault the
moft rapacious. All the hirundines of a village are up in arms at the fight of a
hawk, whom they will perfecute till he leaves that diftri6l. A very exa<?l obferver
has often remarked, that a pair of ravens neftling in the rock of Gibraltar, would
fuffer no vulture or eagle to reft near their ftation, but would drive them from the
hill with an amazing fury : even the blue thrufh at the feafon of breeding would
dart out from the clefts of the rocks to chafe away the keftril or the fparrow-hawk.
Ifyou (land near the neft of a bird that has young, flie will not be induced to betray
them by an inadvertent fondnefs, but will wait about at a diftance, with meat in
her mouth, for an hour together.
A moft Angular effect of inftindl may be obferved in the means by which cuc-
kows are propagated. Unlike the generality of birds, they do not pair. When
a female appears on the wing, fhe is often attended by two or three males, who
feem
AND THE OCCtJLT SCIENCES. S7
feem to be earneftly contending for her favours. From the time of her appearance
till after the middle of fummer, the nefls of the birds feledted to receive her egg are
to be found in great abundance; but, like the other migrating birds, the does not
begin to lay till fome weeks after her arrival. It is on all hands allowed, that the
cuckow does not hatch its own eggs. The hedge-fparrow, the water-wagtail, the
titlark, the red-breaft, the yellow-shammer, the green-linnet, or the winchat, is
generally the nurfe of the young cuckow. It may be fuppofed, that the female
cuckow lays her egg in the abfence of the bird in whofe neft Ihe intends to depofit
;
as it has been known, that, on fight of one of thefe, a red-breaft and its mate jointly
attacked heron approaching the neft, putting her to flight; and foeffedtually drove
her away, that file did not dare to return. Among the birds above mentioned, it
generally feledls the three firft, but Ihows a much greater partiality to the hedge-
fparrow. This laft commonly takes up four or five days in laying her eggs. Dur-
ing this time (generally after ftie has laid one or two), the cuckow contrives to de-
pofit her egg among the reft, leaving the future care of it entirely to the hedge-
fparrow. When the hedge-fparrow has fat her ufual time, and difengaged the
young cuckow and fome of her own offspring from the fiiell, her own young ones,
and any of her eggs that remain unhatched, are foon turned out, the young cuckow
remaining poffeffor of (he neft, and foie obje6t ofher future care. The young birds
are not previoully killed, nor are the eggs demoliihed ;
but all are left to perifli to-
gether, either entangled about the bufii which contains the neft, or lying on the
ground under it. The early fate of the young hedge-fparrow (fays Mr. Jenner, who
made thefe experiments) is a circumftance that has been noticed by others, but at-
tributed to wrong caufes ;
but the true caufe we ftiall prefently explain. A
variety of conje6lures have been formed upon it. A cuckow laid her egg in a
water-wagtail’s neft in the thatch of an old cottage. The wagtail fat her ufual time,
and then hatched all the eggs but one-; which, with all the young ones except the
cuckow, was turned out of the neft. The young birds, confifting of five, were found
upon the rafter that projedted from under the thatch, and with them was an egg not
in the leaft injured. The cuckow was reared by the wagtails till it was nearly ca-
pable of flying, when it was killed by an accident.
A hedge-fparrow built her neft in a hawthorn-bufli in a timber-yard. After flie
had laid two eggs, a cuckow dropped in a third. The fparrow continued laying
as if nothing had happened, till fiie had laid five, her ufual number, and then fat.
On infpefting the neft, June 20, 178fi, (fays Mr. Jenner,) I found that the bird
had hatched this morning, and that every thing but the young cuckow was thrown
out. Under the neft I found one of the young hedge-fparrows dead, and one egg
by the fide of the neft entangled with the coarfe woody materials that formed its out-
fide
I
88 A KEY TO PHYSIC
fide covering. On examining the egg, I found one end of the fhell a little crack-
ed, and could fee that the fparrovv it yet contained was alive. It was then reflored
to the neft, but in a few minutes was thrown out. The egg, being again fufpended
by the outfide of the neft, was faved a fecond time from breaking. To fee what
would happen if the cuckow was removed, I took out the cuckow, and placed the
egg containing the hedge-fparrow in the neft in its ftead. The old birds, during
this time, flew about the fpot, fliowing figns of great anxiety ;
but, when I with-
drew, they quickly came to the neft again. On looking into it in a quarter. of an
hour afterwards, I found the young one completely hatched, warm, and lively.
The hedge-fparrovvs were fuflered to remain undifturbed with their new charge for
three hours (during which time they paid every attention to it}, when the cuckow'
was again put into the neft ;
and, on examining it again in a few minutes, I found
the young fparrow was tumbled out. It was a fecond time reftored, but again ex-
perienced the fame fate. From thefc experiments, and fuppofing, from the feeble
appearance of the young cuckow juft difengaged from the fhell, that it was utterly
incapable of difplacing either the egg or the young fparrows, I w'as induced to be-
lieve that the old fparrows were the only agents in this feemingly-unnaturai bufinefs.
But I afterw ards clearly perceived the caufe of this ftrange phenomenon, by difco-
vering the young cuckow in the a6t of difplacing its fellow-neftlings, as the follow-
ing relation will fully evince. June 18, 1787, 1 examined the neft of a hedge-fpar-
row, which then contained a cuckow’s and three hedge-fparrow’s eggs. On in-
fpe6ling it the day following, I found the bird had hatched, but that the neft now
contained only a young cuckow and one young hedge-fparrow. The neft was
placed fo near the extremity of a hedge, that I could diftinftly fee what was going
forward in it ; and, to my aftonifhment, faw the young cuckow, though fo newly
hatched, in the a61 of turning out the young hedge-fparrow. The mode of accom-
plifliing this was very curious. The little animal, with the afliftance of its rump
and wings, contrived to get the bird upon its back; and making a lodgement for
the burden by elevating its elbows, clambered backward with it up the fide of the
neft, till it reached the top ;
where refting for a moment, it threw off its load with
a jerk, and quite difengaged it from the neft. It remained in this fituation a lliort
time, feeling about with the extremities of its wings, as if to be convinced whe-
ther the bufinefs was properly executed, and then dropped into the neft again.
With thefe (the extremities of its wings) I have often feen it examine, as it were,
an egg and neftling before it began its operations ; and the nice fenfibility which
thefe parts appeared to polfefs, feemed fufficiently to compenfate the want of fight,
which as yet it was deftitute of. I afterwards put in an egg ;
and this, by a fimi-
lar procefs, was conveyed to the edge of the neft and thrown out, Thefe experi-
ments
89
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES.
cnent I have fince repeated feveral times in different nefts, and have always found
the young cuckow difpofed to a6t in the fame manner. In climbing up the neft,
it fometimes drops its burden, and thus is foiled in its endeavours; but, after a lit-
tle refpite, the work is refumed, and goes on almoft incelfantly till it is effe6led.
It is wonderful to fee the extraordinary exertions of the young cuckow, when it is
two or three days old, if a bird be put into the neft with it that is too weighty for
it to lift out. In this ftate it feems ever reftlefs and uneafy. The fingularity of
its lhape is well adapted to thefe purpofes; for, different from other newly-hatched
birds, its back, from the fcapulae downward, is very broad, with a confiderable
deprellion in the middle. This depreflion feems formed by nature for the defign
of giving a more fecure lodgement to the egg of the hedge-fparrow, or its young
one, when the young cuckow is employed in removing either of them from theneft^
When it is about twelve days old, this cavity is quite filled up, and then the back
affumes the lhape of neftling birds in general.
It appears a little extraordinary that two cuckows eggs ftiould ever be depofited
in the fame neft, as the young one produced from one of them muft inevitably perifli;
yet two inftances of this kind fell under our author’s obfervation, one of which he
thug relates: Two cuckows and a hedge-fparrow were hatched in the fame neft this
morning, (June 27, 1787;) one hedge-fparrow’s egg remained unhatched. In a
few hours after, a conteft began between the cuckows for the poffeflion of the
neft, which continued undetermined till the next afternoon, when one of them,
which was foniewhat fuperior in fize, turned out the other, together with the young
hedge-fparrow and the unhatched egg. This conteft was very remarkable. The
combatants alternately appeared to have the advantage, as each carried the other
feveral times nearly to the top of the neft, and then funk down again, oppreffed
by the weight of its burden; till at length, after various efforts, the ftrongeft pre-
vailed, and was afterwards brought up by the hedge-fparrows.
But the principal circumftance that has agitated the mind of natui'alifts refpe6ting
the cuckow is, why, like other birds, it ftiould not build a neft, incubate its eggs,
and rear its own young? The moft probable fuggeftion is, the ftiort refidence this
bird is allowed to make in the country where it is deftined to propagate its fpe-
cies ; and the call that nature has upon it, during that refidence, to produce a nu-
merous progeny. The cuckow’s firft appearance here is about the middle of
April, commonly on the 17th. Its egg is not ready for incubation till fipme weeks
after its arrival, feldom before the middle of May. A fortnight is taken up by
the fitting bird in hatching the egg. The young bird generally continues three
weeks in the neft before it flies, and the fofter-parents feed it more than five weeks
after this period ; fo that, if a cuckow ftiould be ready with an egg much foorier
No. 6. *
A a than
90 A KEY TO PHYSIC
than the time pointed out, not a fingle neftiing, ewn one of the earlieft, vvould
be fit to provide for itfelf before its parent would be inftindli'vely diredfed to feek
a new refidence, and be thus compelled to abandon its young one; for bid euc_
kows take their final leave of this country the firft week in July. Among the
many peculiarities of the young cuckow, there is one that fliows itfelf very early.
Long before it leaves the neft, it frequentlyj when irritated, affumes the manner
of a bird of prey, looks ferocious, throws itfelf back, and peeks at any thing pre-
fented to it, adth great vehemence, often at the fame time making a chuckling noife
like a young hawk. Hence probably the vulgar opinion, that this bird changes
into a hawk, and devours its nurfe on quitting its nefl; whence the French pro-
verb, Ingrat comme un coucoUf “ As ungrateful as a cuckow.” Sometimes, when
difturbed in a fmaller degree, it makes a kind of hiffing noife, accompanied with a
heaving motion of the whole body. From w’hat has been faid, it becomes evident,
that the fame inflindlive impulfe w'hieh diredls the cuckow to depofit her eggs in
the nefls of other birds, diredls her young one to throw out the eggs and young of
the owner of the neft. The fcheme of nature wmuld be incomplete without it; for
it wmuld be extremely difficult, if not impoffible, for the little birds deftined to. find
fuccour for the cuckow', to find it alfo for their own young ones after a certain pe-
riod ;
nor would there be room for them to inhabit the neft. Cuckows may be, and
often are, brought up tame, fo as to become familiar. They will eat in this ftate
bread and milk, fruits, infedfs, eggs, and flefli, either cooked or raw; but in. a ftate
of nature, they chiefly live on caterpillars. When fat, they are faid to be as good
eating as a land-raih the French and Italians eat them to this day. The ancient
Romans admired them greatly as food : Pliny fays that there is no bird which can
be compared to them for delicacy. In migrating, the major part of thefe birds are
fuppofed to go into Africa ; fince they are obferved to vifit the ifland of Malta
twice in a year, in their paffage backw^ards and forw'ards, as is fuppofed, to that
part of the world.
The inftindl which has been difcovered in ants, beavers, &c. is too well known
and admired, to need any mention in this place: and we fee in a great variety of
birds, infedts, and quadrupeds, afimilar economy in laying up ftores of provifionin
time of plenty, that they might have accefs to it in time of need. The common daw
has a peculiar knack of this fort ;
and, in houfes where they have been brought up
tame, have frequently been known to hide, with their meat, money, rings, feals,
lockets, and other fmall trinkets, thereby occafioning injurious fufpicions of theft
in fervants or others, who are perfedlly innocent.
We have a remarkable anecdote given by the Rev. Mr. Robinfon of Oufby in
Weftmoreland, relative to an inftindl in crows, by which they are made the na-
tiual
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 91
turat planters of all forts of wood and trees. They diffeminate the kernels upon
the earth, which like nurferies bring them forth till they grow up to their natural
flrength and perfection. He fays, “ About twenty-five years ago, coming from
Kofecaftle early in the morning, I obferved a great number of crows very bufy at
their work upon a declining ground of a molfy furface ; I went out of my way on
purpofe to view their labour, and I found they were planting a grove of oaks.
The manner of their planting was thus : they firft made little holes in the earth
with their bills, going about and about till the hole was deep enough and then
they dropped in the acorn, and covered it with earth and mofs. The feafon was
at the latter end of autumn, when all feeds are full ripe.” Mr. Robinfon feems to
think that Providence had given the crows this inftinCt folely for the propagation
of trees *
but I imagine it was given them principally for their own prefervation^
by hiding provifion in time of plenty, in order to fupply them in a time of fcarcity
;
fo that fuch an inftinCt in thefe birds may anfwer a double purpofe; both their
own fupport in times of need, and the propagation of the trees they plant : for,
wherever they hide a great number of nuts or grains in the earth, we cannot fup-
pofe they find them all again ; but that as many will remain in the plot of ground
they make ufe of, as can well grow by one another.
A wmnderful fpirit of fociality in the brute creation, independent of fexual. at-
tachment, has been frequently remarked. Many horfes, though quiet with com-
pany, will not ftay one minute in a field; by themfelves : the ftrongeft fences cannot
reftrain them. A horfe has been known to leap out at a fiable-window through
which dung was thrown, after company and yet in other refpeCts to be remarka-
bly quiet. Oxen and cows will not fatten by themfelves; but will negleCl the fineft
pafture that is not recommended by fociety. It would be needlefs to inftance in
fheep, which confiantly flock together. But this propenfity feems not to be con-
fined to animals of the fame clafs or fpecies. Even great difparity of kind and
fize does not alw^ays prevent focial advances and mutual fellowfiiip. Of this the
following remarkable inftance is given : A gentleman who kept but one horfe, hap-
pened alfo on a time to have but one folitary hen: thefe two incongruous animals
fpent much of their time together in a lonely orchard, where they faw no creature
but each other: by degrees an apparent regard began to take place between thefe
two fequeftered individuals : the fowl would approach the quadruped with notes
of complacency, rubbing herfelf gently againft his legs ; while the horfe would
look down with fatisfaftion, and move with the greateft caution and circumfpec-
tion, left he Ihould trample on his diminutive companion ;
and thus by mutual
good oflices each feemed to confole the vacant hours of the other.
Im
92 A KEY TO PHYSIC
In the Gentleman’s Magazine for March 1788, we have the following anecdotes
of a raven. The raven alluded to “ lives, or did live three years fince, at the Red
Lion at Hungerford ;
his name, I think, is Eafe. You muft know then, that,
coming into that inn, my chaife ran over and bruifed the leg of my Newfound-
land dog; and, while we were examining the injury done to the dog’s foot, Rafe
was evidently a concerned fpedlator ;
for, the minute the dog was tied up under
the manger wdth my horfe, Rafe not only vifited, but fetched him bones, and
attended upon him with particular and repeated marks of kindnefs. The bird’s
notice of the dog was fo marked, that I obferved it to the hoftler ; for I had not
heard a word before of the hiftory of this benevolent creature. John then told me,
that he had been bred from his pin-feather in intimacy with a dog ;
that the affec-
tion between them was mutual ;
and that all the neighbourhood had often been
witneffes of the innumerable a^ls of kindnefs they had conferred upon each other.
Rafe’s poor dog, after a while, unfortunately broke his leg; and during the long
time he was confined, Rafe w^aited upon him conffantly, carried him his pro-
vifions daily, and never fcarcely left him alone ! One night by accident the
hoftler had ftiut the ftable door, and Rafe was deprived of the company of bis
friend the w'hole night; but the hoftler found in the morning the bottom of the
door fo pecked away, that, had it not been opened, Rafe would in another hour
have made his own entrance-port. I then enquired of my landlady, and heard
what I have related confirmed by her, with feveral other fingular traits of the
kindnelfes this bird fiiows to all dogs in general, but particularly to maimed or
wounded ones. I hope and believe, however, the bird is ftill living; and the
traveller will find I have not over-rated his merit.”
To thefe inftances of attachment between incongruous animals from a fpirit of
fociality or the feelings of fympathy, may be added the following inftance of fond-
nefs from a different motive, recounted by Mr. White, in his Hiftory of Selborne :
“ My friend had a little helplefs leveret brought to him, which the fervants fed
with milk in a fpoon ;
and about the fame time his cat kittened, and the young
were difpatched and buried. The hare was foon loft, and fuppofed to be gone
the way of moft foundlings, or killed by fome dog or cat. However, in a fortnight
after, as the mafter was fitting in his garden in the dulk of the evening, he ob-
ferved his cat, with tail ere6l, trotting towards him, and calling with little ftiort
inw’ard notes of complacency, fuch as they ufe towards their kittens, and fome-
thing gamboling after, which proved to be the leveret, which the cat had fup*
ported with her milk, and continued to fupport with great affeftion. Thus was a
graminivorous animal nurtured by a carnivorous and predacious one! Why fo cruel
and fanguinary a beaft as a cat, of the ferocious genus of felis, the murium leo,
as
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 93
as LinnEbus calls it, fhould be affefted with any tendernefs towards an animal
which is its natural prey, is not fo eafy to determine. This ftrange affection
probably was occafioned by that defiderium, thofe tender maternal feelings,
which the lofs of her kittens had awakened in her bread ;
and by the compla-
cency and eafe the derived to herfelf from procuring her teats to be drawn,
which were too much diftended with milk, till from habit fhe became as much
delighted with this fbundling as if it had been her real offspring. This incident
is no bad folution of that ftrange circumftance which grave hiftorians as well as
poets affert, of expofed children being fometimes nurtured by female wdld
beafts that had probably loft their young. For it is not one whit more marvellous
that Romulus and Remus, in their infant ftate, ftiould be nurfed by a Ihe-wolf,
than that a poor little fucking leveret ftiould be foftered and cherifhed by a bloody
grimalkin.
That brute animals poffefs refle6lion and fentiment, and are fufceptible of the
kindly as well as the irrafcible.paflions, independently of fexual attachment and na-
tural affe6lion ;
and that they have a great ftiare of fidelity, of pride, and even a
fenfe of glory ;
may be demonftrated from the elephant, the horfe, and the dog.
Elephants, even in a favage ftate, are peaceable and gentle creatures. They never
ufe their weapons but in defence of themfelves or companions. Their focial dif-
pofitions are fo ftrong, that they are feldom found alone, but march always in large
troops: the oldeft and moft experienced lead the van; the younger or lame ones
keep in the middle ; and thofe of a fecond rate, as to age, walk in the rear. The
females carry their young on their tuftcs, embracing them at the fame time with,their
trunk. They feldom march in this regular order but when they reckon the jour-
ney dangerous, fuch as an expedition to cultivated lands, where they expe^f to,
meet with refiftance. On other occafions they are lefs cautious; fome of them fall-
ing behind or feparating from the reft, but feldom fo far as to be without the
reach of affiftance by alarming and affembling their companions. It is dangerous
to offer them the leaft injury; for they run ftraight upon the offender; and, although
the weight of their body be great, their fteps are fo large, that they eafily
outrun the fwifteft man, whom they either pierce with their tufks, or feize with
their trunk, dart him in the air like a ftone, and then trample him under their feet.
But they never attack any perfon unlefs when provoked. However, as they are ,
extremely fenfible and delicate with regard to injuries, it is always prudent to keep
out of their way. Travellers who frequent thofe countries kindle large fires, and
beat drums, during the night, in order to prevent their approach. After being
once attacked by men, or falling into any ambufti, they are faid never to forged
No. 7. B b the
94 A KEY TO PHYSIC
the injury, but fearch for every opportunity of getting revenge. As they are en-
dowed perhaps with a-more exquifite fenfation of fmell than any other animal, owing
to the great extent of their nofe, they can fcent a man at a very great diftance, and
trace him by his footfteps.
The elephant, when tamed, is the moft friendly and obedient of all animals ;
he is entirely attached to the perfon who feeds and takes care of him. In a ihort
time he underftands hgns, and the found of his mailer’s voice. He dillinguiflies
the language of palfion, of command, of fatisfadlion ;
and adls accordingly.
He receives his orders with attention ;
and executes them with prudence and ala-
crity, but without precipitation. He eafily learns to bow his knees and lower his
body, for the convenience of thofe who mount him. He careffes his friends with
his trunk. He lifts burdens with his trunk, and affills thofe who are loading him in
laying them on his back. He delights in lliining harnefs and trappings. When
yoked in a cart or waggon, he pulls equally and cheerfully, unlefs he be abufed
by injudicious chaltifement. His guide is generally mounted on his neck, with
a frnall rod of iron, lliarp at the point, in bis hand ;
he diredls his motion by pricking
him on the ears and head; but, for the moll part, a word is fufficient. A
tame elephant will do more labour than fix horfes ;
but then he requires a propor-
tional quantity of food. They are the principal bealls of burden in many parts of
Africa and the Eall Indies. They carry facks and bundles of all kinds on their
neck, back, and tullvs. They never lofe or damage any . thing committed to their
care : they will ftand on the edge of a river, take bundles off their necks and tulks,
lay them carefully in a boat, whenever they are defired, and try with their trunk
whether they are properly fituated ;
if they be loaded with cafks, they go in quell
of Hones to prop them and prevent them from rolling. The elephant is riot only
thfe moll tradlable, but the moll intelligent, of animals ;
fenfible of benefits, and
refentful of injuries. In India, they were once employed in the launching of
Hiips ; one w'as diredled to force a very lai'ge velfel into the water ;
the work
proved fuperior to his llrength ;
his mallei-, with a farcallic tone, bade the keeper
take away this lazy beaft and bring another : the poor animal inllantly repeated his
efforts, fradlured his Ikull, and died on the fpot. In Delhi, an elephant, paffing
along the flreets, put his trunk into a tailor s Ihop where feveral people were at
woi'k ;
one of them pricked the end with his needle : the beaft palfed on ; but at
the next dirty puddle filled his trunk with water, returned to the Ihop, and, fpirting
every drop among the people who had offended him, fpoiled their W'ork. An
elephant in Adfmeer, which often palfed through the bazar, or market, as he went
by a certain herb-woman, always received from her a mouthful of greens: at
6 length
’AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 95
length he was feized with one of his periodical fits of rage, broke his fetters, and,
running through the market, put the crowd to flight; among others, this woman,
who in halle forgot a little child fhe had brought with her. The animal, recoHedting
the fpot where his benefa^trefs was wont to fit, took up the infant gently in his
trunk, and placed it in fafety on a flail before a neighbouring houfe. Another
in his madnefs, killed his, cornac, or governor : the wife, feeing the misfortune,
took her two children and flung them before the elephant, faying, “ Now yon
have deflroyed their father, you may as w'ell put an end to their lives and mine.”
It inflantly flopped, Yelented, took the greatefl of the children, placed liim on
its neck, adopted him for his cornac, and never afterwards wmuld permit any body
elfe to mountit. A foldier at Pondicherry, who was accuflomed, whenever he
received the portion that came to his fliare, to carry a certain quantity of it to one
of thefe animals, having one day drank rather too freely, and finding himfelf
purfued by the guards, who were going to take him to prifon, took refuge under the
elephant’s body, and fell afleep. In vain did the guard try to force him from this
afylum,'as the elephant prote6led him Muth his trunk. The next morning the fol-
dier, recovering from his drunken fit, fhuddered M'ith horror tO find himfelf
flretched under the belly of this huge animal. The elephant, who without
doubt perceived the man’s embarraffinent, careffed him with his trunk, in order
to infpire him with courage and make him underfland that he might now depart
in fafety. A painter was defirous of drawing the elephant which was kept in the
menagerie at Verfailles in an uncommon attitude, which w’as that of holding
his trunk raifed up in the air with his mouth open. The painter’s boy, in order
to keep the animal in this poflure, threw fruit into his mouth but as the lad
frequently deceived him, and made an offer only of throwing him the fruit,,
he grew angry; and, as if he had known that the painter’s intention of drawing
him was the caufe of the affront that was offered him, inflead nf revenging him-
felf on the lad, he turned his refentment on the mailer, and, taking up a quantity
of water in his trunk, threw it on the paper on which the painter was drawing,,
and fpoiled it. At the Cape of Good Hope, it is cuflomary to kill thofe
animals for the fake of th'eir teeth, by the chafe. Three horfemen, well mounted
and armed with lances, attack the elephant alternately, each relieving the otlier
as they fee their companion preffed, till the beaft is fubdued. Three Dutch-
men (brothers), who had made large fortunes by this buffnefs, determined to
retire to Europe, and enjoy the fruits of their labours; but refolved, before
they went, to have a lafl chace by way of aniufement : they met with their game,,
and began the attack in the ufual manner ;
but unfortunately one of their horfes
fell
96 A KEY TO PHYSIC
fell down and flung its'rider : the enraged animal inftantly feized the unhappy man
with its trunk, flung him up to a vaft height in the air, and received him on one of
his tufks ;
then turning towards the two other brethren, as if it were with an afpeft
of revenge and infult, held out to them the impaled wretch w rithing on the bloody
tooth.
When the elephant is properly managed, he lives very long even in a ftate of
llavery and labour: that fome have lived in this ftate an hundred and thirty years,
is pretty well authenticated. In a natural ftate they often exceed two hundred
years, and propagate their fpecies till they are an hundred and twenty : it is thirty
years before they come to their full growth. The mode of connedlion be-
tween the male and female is now afcertained beyond the poftlbility of doubt; •
as Mr. Buller, Lieut. Hawkins, and many others, faw a male copulate with a female,
after they w'ere fecured, in the Eaft-Indies, in a manner exadlly fimilar to the con-
junction of the horfe with a mare. This faCt entirely overturns what has been fo
often related concerning the fuppofed delicacy of this ufeful animal, and a variety
of other hypothefes, which are equally void of foundation. The time an elephant
goes with young, has been afcertained to be fomewhat lefs than two years, as an
elephant brought forth a young one tw'enty-one months and three days after flie was
taken. She was obferved to be with young in April or May 1788, and flie was only
taken in January preceding ;
fo that it is very likely flie muft have had connexion
with the male fome months before flie was fecured, otherwifethey could notdifcover
that flie was with young, as a foetus of lefs than three months cannot well be fup-
pofed to make any alteration in the fize or fliape of fo large an animal. The young,
one, a male, was produced October 16, 1789, and appeared in every refpeCt to
have arrived at its full time. He was thirty-five inches high at his birth, and grew
four inches in nearly as many months. Elephants are always meafured at the
flioulder; for the arch or curve of the back, of young ones particularly, is confi-
derably higher than any other part, and it is a fure fign of old age whenever this
curve is found flattened or confiderably deprefled, after an elephant has once,
attained its full growth. The young elephants fuck conftantly with their mouths,
and never with their trunks, as Buffon has afterted ;
a conclufion he made merely
from conjecture, and the great and various ufes to which the trunk is adapted
and applied by every elephant.—The approach of the rutting-feafon is eafily
known; for fome days before it happens, an oily liquor flows from a fmall hole
on each fide of the head. The domeftic female on thefe occafions fometimes
makes her efcape, and joins the wild males in the woods. Some days afterwards
her cornac goes in queft of her, and calls her by her name till flie comes. She
fubmits to him with complacence, and allows herfelf to be conducted home, and
/hut
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 97
iliut up in the ftabie. They bring forth but one at a time, though the female has
two dugs, one on each fide the breaft. The young one, as foon as it comes into the
world, is as large as a wild boar, and is furniflied with teeth : h&wever, the large
tuflcs do not make their appearance till fome time after, and at the age of fix'
months they are feveral inches long. Elephants of this age are as large as an ox
when in a natural ftate.
The intrepidity and fagacity of the horse have been regarded with admiration
by all ranks of men, and in all ages .of the world. Even in a domeftic flate he is-
bold and fiery; and, equally undaunted as his matter, faces danger and death wuth
ardour and magnanimity. He delights in the noife and tumult of arms, and feems
to feel the glory of victory : he exults in the chace ;
his eyes fparkle with emula--
tion in the courfe. But, though bold and intrepid, he is docile and tradlable : he
knows how to govern and check the natural viVacity and fire of his temper. He
not only yields to the hand, but feems to confult the inclination of his rider.
Conttantly obedient to the impreffions he receives, his motions are entirely regu-
lated by the will of his matter. He in fome meafure refigns his very exittence to*
the pleafure of man. He delivers up hi^ whole powers, he referves nothing ;
he
will rather die than difobey. Who could endure to fee a charadler fo noble, abufed?
who could be guilty of fuch grofs barbarity? none but wretches mott relentlefs
and unfeeling ! We need go no further than the horfe, to prove how ftrongly na-
ture has endowed brute animals w'ith memory; for whatever roads, pattures, inns,
or ttables, a horfe has been accuttomed to, though removed for years to a dittant’
part of the country, he never forgets them; but, if ever he returns, or pafles by
them again, he gives evident tokens that he has been accuttomed to the place.
-
The celebrated equettriansj Hughes and Attley, could, I doubt not, furniflia thou-
fand curious anecdotes to illuttrate this fadt; but the following, I think, being in-
controvertible, will be fufficient for the purpofe.
Mr. James George, a gentleman of Southampton, in the county of Hants, loft;
his horfe from off- the common on which he had been accuttomed to be turned-
out. About twelve months after, the horfe was feen and recognized, grazing
on a common near Burfledon. Soon as this was made knawn, Mr. George fent
his fervant with a bridle, and ordered the horfe to be caught, and brought home.
In a few days after, a Mr. Langtree of Burfledon came to Mr. George, to demand
the horfe, . infitting it was his property, and had been fo for years The horfe,
however, being pofitively w-ithheld, Mr. Langtree brought an adtion for his re-
covery, which was tried at Winchetter affifes, in March I7b9. The plaintiff,
on the pofitive affirmations of fix or feven witneffes, traced the fale of the
horfe from one dealer’s hands to another, as far back as the year 1784, when he
No.. 7. Cc was
98 A KEY TO PHYSIC
was purchafed of one farmer Mofes, in the county of Suffex, who bred him ;
and
the horfe was identified by them all. On the part of the defendant, the mofi; po-
fitive evidence was adduced, to fliow that this horfe was not the horfe fworn to
have been fo bought and fold by the witnelfes on the other fide,' but was, and
had been, the real property of -Mr. George, from the year 1786. In this fituation,
with the horfe equally fworn to and identified by the witnelfes on both fides, who had
all been to infpedl him but the day before the trial, the judge by crofs-examining
thelaftwitnefs, difcovered, that, u hen the defendant’s fervant brought the horfe back,
he turned him into his old pafturage on Southampton common, where he had not
been many minutes, before he fet off, of his own accord, towards Southampton;
and in his way crolfed a number of lanes, and turnings, paffed by eight or ten llables,
until he came to the liable of Mr. George, where he inflantly flopped, and neighed
at the ftable-door, as much as to fay he was come back, and begged to be taken in.
This circumftance decided the verdict. The learned judge remarked, that there
could be no collulion in the evidence derived from the memory of the horfe
;
and
directed the jury to find for the defendant.
This charadler, though natural to the animal, is improved by habit and education.
His education commences with the lofs of liberty, and is finifited by conftraint. In
the vail deferts of America, they roam at large without any reftraint. M. de Salle
relates, 'that he faw, in the year 1685, horfes feeding, in the meadows of North
America, near the bay of St. Louis, which were fo ferocious that nobody durft
come near them. Oexmelin fays, that he has feen large troops of them in St. Do-
mingo running in the valleys ;
that, when any perfon approached, they all flopped;
and one of them would advance till within a certain dillance, then fnort with his
nofe, take to his heels, and the whole troop after him. Thefe relations fufficiently
prove, that the horfe, when at full liberty, has no inclination to alfociate with
mankind ; that all the foftnefs and dudlility of his temper proceed entirely from
the culture and polifli he receives in his domeftic education, which in fome mea-
fure commences as foon as he is brought forth.—The horfe has not only a gran-
deur in his general appearance, but there is the greatell fymrnetry and propor-
tion in the different parts of his body. The regularity and proportion of the dif-
ferent parts of the head give him an air of lightnefs, which is well fupported by
the llrength and beauty of his chbll. He eredls his head, as if walling to exalt
himfelf above the condition of other quadrupeds; his eyes are open and lively;
his ears are handfome, and of a proper height ;
his mane adorns his neck, and gives
him the appearance of llrengtli and boldnefs. At the age of two years, or
two years and an half, the horfe is in a condition to propagate ;
and the mare,
like moll other females, is ready to receive him Hill fooner. But the foals pro-
duced
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 99
duced by fuch early embraces are generally ill-made and weakly. The horfe
fliould never be admitted to the mare till he is four or four and a half ;
this is only
meant with regard to draught-horfes. Fine horfes fhould not be ^admitted to the
mare before they are fix years old ;
and Spanifh ftallions not till feven. The
mares are generally in feafon from the beginning of April to the end of June
but their chief ardour for the horfe lafts only about fifteen or twenty days, and this
critical feafon flrould always be embraced. The ftallion ought to be found, well-
made, vigoi'ous, and of a good breed. For fine faddle-horfes, foreign ftallions,
as Arabians, Turlcs, Barbs, and Andalufians, are preferable to all others. Next
to thefe, Britifii ftallions are the beft; becaufe they originally fprang from thofc
above-mentioned, and are very little degenerated. The ftallions of Italy, and
efpecially the Neapolitans, are very good. The beft ftallions for draught or
carriage horfes, are thofe of Naples, Denmark, Holftein, and Friezeland. The
ftallions for faddle-horfes fhould be from fourteen to fifteen hands high, and for
drauoht-horfes at leaft fifteen hands. Neither ought the colour of ftallions to be
overlooked; as a fine black, grey, bay, forrel, chefnut, &c. Befides thefe external
qualities, a ftallion ought to have courage, tradlability, fpirit, agility, a fenfible
mouth, fare limbs. See. Thefe precautions in the choice of a ftallibn are the more
neceffar}% becaufe he has been found by experience to communicate to his offspring
almoft all his good or bad qualities, whether natural or acquired.
To fliow, more obvioufly, the reafoning.-faculty of brutes, and to diftinguifli
the operations of intelledf from thofe of inftindl, we need only contemplate the
adtions and difpofition of the rog. In a favage ftate, it muft be allowed, that
he is fierce, cruel, and voracious ;
but, when civilized and accuftomed to live
with men, he is poffeffed of every amiable quality. He feems to have no other
defire than to pleafe and protedt his mafter. He is gentle, obedient, fubmiffive,
and faithful. Thefe difpofitions, joined to his almoft unbounded fagacity, juftly
claim the efteem of mankind. Accordingly no animal is fo much careffed or
refpedled : he is fo dudlile, and fo much formed to pleafe, that he affumes the
very air and temper of the family in which he refides. An animal endowed with
fuch uncommon qualities, muft anfwer many ufeful purpofes. His fidelity and
vigilance are daily employed to protedt our perfons, our flocks, or our goods.
The acutenefs of his fmell gains him employment in hunting ; he is frequently
employed as a turnfpit : at Bruffels and in Holland he is trained to draw little carts
to the herb-market ;
and in the northern regions draws a fledge with his mafter in
it, or loaden with provifions. It is a remarkable inftindl; in the dog, that, when op-
preffed with ficknefs, to which he is very fubjedl, efpecially in the beginning of
fummer, and before ill weather, he eats the leaves of the quicken grafs, the
bearded
100 A KEY TO PHYSIC
bearded wheat-grafs, or the rough cock’s-foot grafs, which gives him immediate
relief by making him votnit. He does not throw out his excrements promif-
cuoudy upon every thing that happens to be in the way, but carefully feeks flones,.
trunks of trees, or barren places. This is a wife inftitution of nature; for the ex-
crements of a dog deftroy almoft every vegetable or animal fubftance. They are of
fuch a putrid nature, that, if a man’s flioc touches them when recently expelled, that
particular part v^ill rot in a few days. He obferves the fame method in making his
urine, which he throws out at a fide. It is remarkable, that a dog will not pafs a
flone or a wall againft which any other dog has urined, without following his exam-
ple, although an hundred iliould occur in a few minutes; infomuch that it is aflo-
nifliing how fuch a quantity can be fecreted in fo fliort a time. The principal ob-
jeHion to dogs, in the fliocking circumftance of their going mad, and of commu-
nicating the diforder to vvhatever perfon, or animal, they may chance to bite; and of
which the cure has ever been confidered precarious and uncertain. From a minute
inveftigation of the poifonous qualities of the hydrophobia, and the effedt it has on
the blood, as well as from a confideration of what the blood and juices undergo
by emerging the body in the fea, I am bold to affirm that my Solar Tin6lure, ad-
miniftei ed in the way I have diredted, is a certain and infallible cure for this de-
plorable malady ;
at leaft as far as human certainty can go with refpe<5t to medi-
cine. I would not however be underftood to encourage a negligence in thofe who
keep dogs, to w atch w'ell their aHions, and, on the fmalieft fufpicion that fuch a
misfortune is near, to have them inftantly difpatched, as they may be eatily re-
placed, and much anxiety and diftrefs prevented. —With regard to the propagation
of dogs, the females admit the males before they are twelve months old. They
remain in feafon ten, twelve, or even fifteen, days, during which time they wdll
admit a variety of males. They come in feafon generally twice in the year, and
more frequently in the cold than in the hot months. The male difcovers the con-
dition ol the female by the fmell ;
but flie feldoin admits him the firft fix or feven.
days. One coition will make her conceive a great number of young; but, w'hen
not reftrained, die will admit feveral dogs every day ;
fhe feems to have no choice
or preciiiedtion, except in favour of large dogs ;
from this circumftance it fome-
times happens, that a fmall female, w ho has admitted a maftiff, periflies in bring-
ing torth her young. During the time of copulation, thefe animals cannot fepa-
rate themfelves, but remain united fo long as the ercdtion fubfids. This is owing
to the flru<5ture of the parts. The dog has not only a bone in his penis, but in the
middle '>t the corpus cavernofum there is a large hollow, which is blown up in the
time of ereHion to a confiderable bulk. The female, on the other hand, has a
larger clitoris than perhaps any other animal : befides, a large firm protuberance
7 rifes
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 101
rifes in the time ofcopulation, and remains perhaps longer than that of the male, and
prevents him from, retiring till it fuhfides ;
accordingly, after the a6f of penetrating
is eifedled, -themale turns about in order to reft himfelf on his legs, and remains
in that pofttion till the parts turn flaccid. The female goes with young about nine
weeks.' They generally bring forth from fix to twelve puppies. Thofe of a fuiall
fize bring forth five, four, and fometimes but two. They continue to copulate and
bring forth during life, w'hich lafts generally about fourteen or fifteen years. The
whelps are commorrly blind, and cannot open their eyes till the tenth or twelfth
day; the males are like the dog, the females like the bitch. —The dog, the wolf,
and the fox, are certainly derivedjVom one original parent; and all dogs whatfo-
ever, from the terrible boar-dog to Fompey the little, were all one in the firft
creation. All the variety we behold in them, is either produced by change of
climate, or the accidental effedf of foil, food, or fituation ;
or from the iftue of hu-
man care, experiment, or caprice. Every buntfman knows what a vaft alteration
may be made in dogs, by induftrioufly improving the breed for twenty or thirty
years. Nature wifely fends to render every kind of creature fit for the country
where it is to inhabit, or be employed ; which is the reafon why hounds, and all
other animals, degenerate, by being removed into contrary climates. This is ma-
nifeft from the following experiment: if a couple of right fouthern hounds be re-
moved to the north, and fuffered to propagate without art or mixture, they will,
by fenfible degrees, decline into lighter bodies and fhriller accents; and in the
fame way are -all dogs varied, by being carried from one country to another.
But the utmoft efforts of human induftry and contrivance, whether aflifted by
change of climate, or mixture of breed, could never add one new fpecies to the
works of the creation. Nature is ftill uniform as to the main, nor fuffers the
Almighty Creator to be imitated by fhort-fighted mortals. In fpite of art, our
mules are always barren ;
nor can the moft curious projedfor produce one amphi-
geneous animal that will increafe and multiply. There appears a diftindl fpecific
difference in all living creatures ;
the horfe, the dog, the bear, the goat, how-
ever diverfified by art, by copulation, or by climate, either in fize, fhape, or
figure, will ever difcover fomething that approximates to the charadler of their
fpecies. Above all, the peculiar inftindf and appetite for generation, will prompt
them to own and indicate their relation. Animals of different fpecies wdll never
copulate together. This is one of the moft undeniable arguments that w’olves,
foxes, and dogs, are originally the fame fpecies, becaufe in coition they are not
only all held together in the fame manner, but we have fome inftances of litters of
puppies produced from the dog and fox, and alfo from the dog and wolf. Mr. Brooke^,
animal-merchant in Holborn, turned a wolf to a Pomeranian bitch in heat;
No. 7. D d the
102 A KEY TO PHYSIC
the congrefs was immediate, and as ufual between dog and bitch : flie produced
ten puppies. Mr. Pennant faw one of them at Gordon Caftle, that had very
much the refemblance of a wolf, and alfo much of its nature ;
being flipped at
a weak deer, it inftantly caught at the animal’s throat and killed it. I could not
learn (fays Mr. Pennant) whether this mongrel continued its fpecies ;
but another
of the fame kind did, and flocked the neighbourhood of Fochabers, in the county
of Moray, (where it was kept,) with a multitude of curs of a mofl wolfifh afpe6l.
There w^as lately living a mongrel offspring of this kind. It greatly refembled its
wolf parent. It was firft the property of Sir Wolflein Dixey ;
afterw-ards of Sir
Willoughby Aflon. During day it was very tame; but at night fometimes relapfed
into ferocity. It never barked, but rather howled ;
when it came into fields
w'here fheep were, it would feign lamenefs, but if no one was prefent w'ould inftantly
attack them. It had been feen in copulation witli a bitch, which afterwards pupped;
the breed was imagined to refemble in many refpefts the fuppofed fire. It died be-
tw-een the age of five and fix. —The woodman of the manor of Mongewell, in Ox-
fordfliire, has a bitch, which conftantly follows him, the offspring a tame dog-fox
by a fliepherd’s cur; and flie again has had puppies by a dog. Since there are fuch
authentic proofs of the further continuance of the breed, we may furely add the
wolf and fox to the other fuppofed flocks of thefe faithful domeftics, particularly as
mofl naturalifts fuppofe the dog to have been originally the produ6lion of one or
other of thefe animals, tamed and civilized.
Many and wonderful are the inftances of fagacity, fidelity, and attention, and
even of forefight, which thefe faithful animals have evinced towards their mafters.
Some fuch will doubtlefs occur to the minds of my readers, as falling under their
own obfervation ;
I fhall therefore only recite tw'O or three fuch inftances, of un-
queftionable authenticity.—In the year 1791, a perfon w'ent to a houfe in Dept-
ford, to take lodgings, under pretence than he was juft arrived from the Weft-
Indies ;
and, after having agreed on terms, faid he fhould fend in his trunk that
night, and come himfelf the next day. About nine o’clock in the evening, the
trunk was brought in by two porters, and was carried into his bed-room. Juft
as the family were going to bed, their little houfe-dog, deferling his ufual
ftation in the fhop, placed himfelf clofe to the door of the chamber where the cheft
was depofited, and kept up an inceffant barking. The moment the chamber
door was opened, the dog flew to the cheft, againft which it barked and
fcratched with redoubled vehemence and fury. At firft they tried to get the
dog out of the room; but in vain. Galling in fome neighbours, and making
them eye-w'itneffes of the circumftance, they began to move the trunk about,
when they quickly difcovered that it contained fomething alive. Sufpicion
falling
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 103
felling very ftrong, they were induced to open it, when, to their utter aftoniihtnent,
who fliould prefent himfelf but their new lodger, who had been thus conveyed in,
to rob the houfe ! —In the fummer of the year 1792, a gentleman went down to
Portfmouth for the benefit of fea-bathing. He went to one of Mr. -Bradley’s
machines, to be condu6ted into the water. Being unacquainted with the depth,
and no fwimmer, he found himfelf, the inftant he quitted the machine, nearly out
of his depth. Fright increafed the peril of his fituation, and, unnoticed by the
perfon who attends the machines, he had funk for the laft time in the agonies of
drowning. A large Newfoundland dog, Handing by accident on the fliore, and
feeing the diftrefs of this ftranger, plunged in after him ;
and, feizing him by the
hair of the head; conducted him fafely on-fhore, though it was fome time before
he recovered. The gentleman afterwards purchafed the dog at a high price, but
values fiim equally with thp fum total of his fortune.—At the feat of the late Earl
of Litchfield, three miles from Blenheim, there is a portrait in the dining-room
of Sir Henry Lee, by Johnfton, with that of a mafiiff dog which faved his life.
It feems a fervant had formed the defign of affaffinatirig his matter and robbing
the houfe; but the night he had fixed on, the dog, which had never been much
noticed by Sir Henry, for the firft time followed him up-tlairs, got under his bed,
and could not be driven thence by either mafter or man; in the dead of night,
the fame fervant entered the room to execute his horrid defign, but was inftantly
feized by the rlog, and, being fecured, confetfed his intentions.^ There are ten
quaint lines in one corner of the pidture, which conclude thus :
But in my dog, whereof I made no ftore,
I find more love than thofe I trufted more.
Upon what hypothefis can we account for a degree of forefight and penetration
fuch as this ? Or will it be fuggefted, as a folution of the difficulty, that a dog
may poffibly become capable in a -great meafure of underftanding human difcourfe,
and of reafoning and adting accordingly ;
and that, in the prefent inftance, the
villain had either uttered his defign in foliloquy, or imparted it to an accomplice,
in the hearing of the animal? It has been much difputed whether brutes have
any language whereby they can exprefs their minds to each other ;
or whether all
the noife they make confiils only of cries inarticulate, and unintelligible even to
themfelves. We may indeed, from analogy, conclude, with great reafon, that
fome of the cries of beafls are really exprelTions of their fentiments; but whether
one beaft is capable of forming a defign, and communicating that defign by any
kind of language to others, is w'hat I fhall leave to the judgment of the reader,
4 after
A KEY TO PHYSIC
after fubmitting to his confideration the following inftance. —•Afparrow, finding a
neft that a martin had juft built, ftanding very conveniently for him, poffefled him-
felf of it. The martin, feeing the ufurper in her houfe, called for help to expel
him. A thoufand martins came full fpeed, and attacked the fparrow ;
but the
latter, being covered on every fide, and prefenting only his large beak at the entrance
of the neft, was invulnerable, and made the boldeft of them who durft approach
him repent of their temerity. After a quarter of an hour’s combat, all the martins
difappeared. The fparrow thought he had got the better, and the fpedlators judged
that the martins had abandoned their undertaking. Not in the leaft. Immediately
they returned to the charge ;
and, each of them having procured a little of that
tempered earth with which they make their nefts, they all at once fell upon the
fparrow', and indofed him in the neft to perilli there, though they could not drive
him thence. Can it be imagined that the martins could have been able to hatch and
concert this defign all of them together, without fpeaking to each other, or without
fome medium of communication equivalent to language?
From all thefe extraordinary endowments, manifefted by brute animals of differ-
ent countries and kinds, fome philofophei s have maintained that brutes are gifted
with a foul, though effentially inferior to that of men ;
and to this foul they have
allowed immortality. Father Bougeant, aJefuit, publiflied, about the year 1740, a
treatife exprefsly on this fu bjedl, entitled, A Philofophical Amufementon the Language
of Brutes, in which he aftirms that they are animated by evil fpirits> or devils.
The ftrangenefs of this dodrine has induced me to give the outline of his argu-
ment, fince it cannot fail to prove entertaining to the reader. “ Reafon (fays
he) naturally inclines us to believe that beafts have a fpiritual foul ;
and the only
thing that oppofes this fentiment is, the confequences that might be inferred from
it. If brutes have a foul, that foul muft be either matter or fpirit; it muft be one
of the tw'o, and yet you dare affirm neither. You dare not fay it is a matter, be-
caufe you muft then neceffarily fuppofe matter to be capable of thinking; nor will
you fay that it is fpirit, this opinion bringing with it confequences contrary to the
principles of religion-; and this, among others, that man would differ from beafts
only by the degrees of plus and minus ;
w'hich would deinoliffi the very foundation,
of all religion. Therefore, if I can elude all thefe confequences ;
if I can aftign
to beafts a fpiritual foul, without ftrikingat the dodrines of religion ;
it is evident,
that my fyftem, being moreover the moft agreeable to reafon, is the only warrant-
able hypothefis. Now I ftiall, and can do it, with the greateft eafe imaginable.
I even have means, by the fame method, to explain many very obfcure paffages in
the Holy Scriptures, and to refolve fome very great difficulties which are not well
confuted. This I ffiall unfold in a more particular manner. Religion teaches
us,
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 105
us, that the devils, from the very moment they had finned, were reprobate, and
that they were doomed to burn for ever in hell ;
but the church has not yet deter-
mined whether they do actually endure the t(jrments to which they are condemned.
It may then be thought that they do not yet fuffer them, and that the execution of
the verdi6l brought againft them is referved for the day of final judgement.—Now
what I pretend to infer from hence is, that, till doomfday comes, God, in order
not to fuffer fo many legions of reprobate fpirits to be of no ufe, has diftributed
them through the feveral fpaces of the world, to ferve the defigns of his Provi-
dence and make his omnipotence to appear. ^ Some, continuing in their natural
ftate, bufy themfelves in tempting men, in feducing and tormenting them; either
immediately, as Job’s devil, and thofe that fay hold of human bodies ; or by the
miniftry of forcerers or phantoms. Thefe wicked fpirits are thofe whom thefcrip-
ture calls the powers of darhiefs, or the powers ofthe air. God, with the others,
makes millions of beafts of all kinds, which ferve for the ufes of men, which fill
the univerfe, and caufe the wifdom and omnipotence of the Creator to be admired*
By that means I can eafily conceive, on the one hand, how the devils can tempt us
;
and, on the other, how beafts can think, know, have fentiments,, and a
fpiritual foul, without any way ftriking at the do61rines of religion. I am no
longer furprifed to fee them have forecaft, memory, and judgment. I ffiould
rather have ocrcafion to wonder at their having no more, fince their foul very likely
is more perfedl than ours. But I difcover the reafon of this : it is becaufe, in beafts
as well as in ourfelves, the operations of the mind are dependent on the material
organs of the machine to which it is united ;
and, thofe organs being groflTer and
lefs perfedt than in us, it follows, that the knowledge, the thoughts, and the
other fpiritual operations, of beafts, muft of courfe be lefs perfedl than ours
and, if thefe proud fpirits know their own difmal ftate, what an humiliation muft
it be to them thus to fee themfelves reduced to the condition of beafts ! But whe-
ther they know it or no, fo fhameful a degradation is ftill, with regard to them,
the primary effect of the divine vengeance I juft mentioned ; it is an anticipated
hell.”—Having mentioned the prejudices againft this hypolhefis, fuch particularly
as the pleafure which people of fenfe and religion take in beafts and birds, efpe-
cially all forts of domeftic animals ;
he proceeds, “ Do we love beafts for their
own fakes? No. As they are altogether ftrangers to human fociety, they can have .
no other appointment but that of being ufeful and amufing. And what care we
whether it be a devil or any other creature that amufes us ? The thought of it,
far from fliocking, pleafes me mightily. I with gratitude admire the goodnefs
of the Creator, who gave me fo many little devils to ferve and amufe me. If I anx
told that thefe poor devils are doomed to fuffer eternal tortures, I admire God’s
No. 7. E e decrees*
A KEY TO PHYSIC
decrees, but I have no manner of fhare in that dreadful fentence ,* I leave the
execution of it to the Sovereign Judge ;
and, notwithftanding this, I live with
my little devils as I do with a multitude of people of whom religion informs me
that a great number iliall be damned. But the cure of a prejudice is not to be
effe6led in a moment ;
it is done by time and reflection :
give me leaye then lightly
'v to touch upon this difficulty, in order to obferve a very important thing to you.
Perfuaded as we are that beafls have intelligence, have we not all of us a thoufand
times pitied them for the exceffive evils which the majority of them are expofed to,
and in reality fuffer? How unhappy is the condition of horfes ! we are apt to fay,
upon feeing a horfe whom an unmerciful carman is murdering with blows. IIow
miferable js a dog whom they are breaking for hunting ! How difmal is the fate of
beads living in woods; they are perpetually expofed to the injuries of the weather,
always feized with apprehenfions of becoming the prey of hunters, or of fome wilder
animal; for ever obliged, after long fatigue, to look out for fome poor infipid
food; often fuffering cruel hunger ;
and fubjeCl, moreover, to illnefs and death !
If men are fubjeCl to a multitude of miferies that overwhelm them, religion ac-
quaints us with the reafon of it; viz. the being born flnners. But what crimes can
beads have committed by birth to be fubjeClto evils fo very cruel? What are we,
then, to think of the horrible excedes of miferies undergone by beads ? miferies,
indeed, far greater than thofe endured by men. This is, in any other fydem, an
incomprehenfible rnydery ;
whereas nothing is more eafy to be conceived from the
fydem I propofe. The rebellious fpirits deferve a punifhment dill more rigorous,
and happy is it for them that their puniflnnent is deferred. In a w-ord, God’s good-
nefs is vindicated, and man himfelf is juffified : for what right can we have,
without neceflity, and often in the way of mere diverfion, to take away the life of
millions of beads, if God had not authorifed us fo to do? And, beads beinw as
fendble as ourfelves of pain and death, how could a jud and merciful God have
given man that privilege, if they were not fo many guilty victims of the divine
'
vengeance?—But hear dill fomething more convincing, and of greater confe-
quence : beads, by nature, are extremely vicious. We know w’ell that they
never fin, becaufe they are not free ;
but this is the only condition wanting to
make them dnners. The voracious birds and beads of prey are cruel. Many
infeCts of one and the fame fpecies devour one another. Cats are perfidious and
ungrateful ;
monkeys are mifchievous ;
and dogs envious. AH beads in general
are jealous and revengeful to excefs; not to mention many other vices w-e obferve
in them; and at the fame time that they are by nature fo very vicious, they have,
fay we, neither the liberty nor any helps to redd the bias that hurries them into
fo many bad aClions. They arC, according to the fchools, neceflitated to do evil,
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 107
to difconcert the general order, to commit whatever is moft contrary to the notion
we have of natural juftice and to the principles of virtue. What monfters are
thefe in a world originally created for order and juftice to reign in? This is, in
good part, what formerly perfuaded the Manicheans, that there were of necefftty
two orders of things, one good, and the other bad ;
and that the beafts were not
the work of the good principle: a raonftrous error! But how then fhall we be-
lieve that beafts came out of the hands of their Creator with qualities fo very
ftrange! If man is fo very wdcked and corrupt, it is becaufe he has himfelf through
fin perverted the happy nature God had given him at his creation. Of two things,
then, we muft fay one ; either that God has taken delight in making beafts fo vi-
cious as they are, and of giving us in them models of what is rnoft fliameful in
the world; or that they have, like man, original fin, which has perverted their pri-
mitive nature.—The firft of thefe propofitions finds very difficult accefs to the
mind, and is an exprefs contradidlion to the Holy Scriptures; which fay, that what-
ever came out of God’s hands, at the time of the creation of the world, was good,
yea very good. What good can there be in a monkey’s being fo very mifchievous,
a dog fo full of envy, a cat fo malicious ? But then many authors have pretended,
that beafts, before man’s fall, were different from what they are now ; and that it
was in order to punifli man that they became fo wicked. But this opinion is a mere
fuppofition, of which there is not the leaft footftep in holy fcripture. It is a piti-
ful fubterfuge to elude areal difficulty : this at moft might be faid of the beafts
with whdm man has a fort of correfpondence ; but not at all of the birds, fifties,
and infedls, which have no manner of relation to him. We muft then have re-
courfe to the fecond propofition, that the nature of beafts has, like that of man,
been corrupted by fome original fin: another hypothefis, void of foundation, and
equally inconfiftent with reafon and religion, in all the fyftems which have been
hitherto efpoufed concerning the fouls of beafts. What fide are we to ta!ke?
Why, admit of my fyftem, and all is explained. The fouls of beafts are refrac-
tory fpirits which have made themfelves guilty towards God. The fin in beafts
?s no original fin ;
it is a perfonal crime, which has corrupted and perverted their
nature in its whole fubftance; hence all the vices and corruption we obferve in
them, though they can be no longer criminal, becaufe God, by irrecoverably re-
probating them, has at the fame time divefted them of their liberty.”
Thefe quotations contain the ftrCngth of Father Bougeant’s hypothefis, which alfo
hath had its followers ;
but the reply to it is obvious. Beafts, though remarkably
mifchievous, are not completely fo ;
they are in many inftanees capable of grati-
tude and love, which devils cannot poffibly be. The very fame paffions that are
in the brutes exift in the human nature; and, if we chofe to argue from the
6 exiftence'
/
108 A KEY TO PHYSIC
exiftence of thofe paffions, and the afeendency they have over mankind at ft)me
times, we may- fay, with as great juftice, that the fouls of men are devils, as that
the fouls of brutes are. All that can be reafonably inferred from the greater pre-
valency of the malignant paffions among the brutes than among men, is, that the
former have lefs rationality than men : and accordingly it is found, that among
favages, who exercife their reafon lefs than other men, every fpecies of barbarity
is pra6lifed, without being deemed a crime.—Upon the whole, it is impoffible
to deduce this variety of a6lion,\ in animals, from a general and uniform inftin^t
only. For they accommodate their operations to times and circumftances. They
combine ;
they choofe the favourable moment ;
they avail themfelves of the
occafion, and feem to receive inftruftion by experience. Many of their operations
announce refledtion : the bird repairs a fhattered neft, inftead of conftru6ling in-
flinftively a new one : the hen, who has been robbed of her eggs, changes her
place in order to lay the remainder with more fecurity : the cat difcovers both
care and artifice in concealing her kittens. Again it is evident, that, on many
occafions, animals know their faults and miftakes, and corre6l them; they fome-
times contrive the moft ingenious methods of obtaining their ends, and when one
method fails, have recourfe to another; and they have, without doubt, a kind of
language for the mutual communication of their ideas. How is all this to be ac-
counted for, unlefs we fuppofe them endowed with the powers of perceiving,
thinking, remembering, comparing, and judging? They certainly have thefe
powers, in a degree inferior to the human fpecies, and form claffes below them in
the graduated fcale of intelligent beings ;
but, their adlions not being diredled to
moral ends, are confequently not accountable and proper fubje6ts for reward or
punifhrnent in a future world.
After all, it does not appear upon what principle of reafon and juftice it is,
that mankind have founded their right over the life of every creature that is placed
in a fubordinate rank of being to themfelves. Whatever claim they may have in
right of food and felf-defence, did they extend their privilege no' farther, number-
lefs beings might enjoy their lives in peace, who are now hurried out of them by
the moft wanton and unneceifary cruelties. It is furely difficult to difcover why
it Ihould be thought lefs inhuman to crufli to death a harmlefs infe61;, whofe fingle
offence is that he eats that food which nature has prepared for his fuftenance, than
it would be were we to kill any bulky creature for the fame reafon. There are
few tempers fo hardened againft the impreffions of humanity, as not to ffiudder at
the thought of the latter; and yet the former is univerfally praftifed, without the
leaft check of compaffion. This feems to arife from the grofs error of fuppofing,
that every creature is really in itfelf contemptible, which happens to be clothed
with
109
AND OCCULT SCIENCE.
with abody infinitely difproportionate to our own, not confidering that great
and little are merely relative terms. But the inimitable Shakefpeare would teach
us, that
the poor beetle that we tread upon,
]*n corp’ral fufF’rance feels a pang as great
As when a giant dies. .
And, indeed, there is every reafon to believe, that, the fenfations of many infects
are as requifite as thofe of creatures of far more enlarged dimenfions, perhaps
even more fo. The millepede, for inftance, rolls itfelf round upon the flightefl
touch, and the fnail gathers in her horns upon the leaft approach of our hand.
Are not thefe the ftrongeft indications of their fenfibility ? and is it any evidence '
of ours, that we are not therefore induced to treat them with a more fympathifing
tendernefs ?
I cannot conclude thefe obfervations on the inftinO; and ceconomy of brute
animals, without reciting the following moft remarkable account of the land-
crab, which inhabits the Bahama Iflands, as well as moil parts between the
tropics, and feeds upon vegetables. Thefe creatures live not only in a kind of
orderly fociety in their retreats in the mountains, but regularly, once a-year, march
down to the fea-fide i^n a body of fome millions at a time. As th?y multiply in
great numbers, they choofe the month of April or May to begin their expedition;
and then fally out by thoufands from the ftumps of hollow trees, from the clefts
of rocks, and from the holes which they dig for ihemfelves under the furface of
the earth. At that time the whole ground is covered with this band of adven-
turers; there is no fetting down one’s foot without treading upon them. The
fea is their place of deftination, and to that they direft their march with right-
lined precifion. No geometrician could fend them to their deftined ftation by
a fhorter courfe; they turn neither to the right nor left, whatever obftacles
intervene; and, even if they meet with a houfe, they will attempt to fcale the
walls to keep the unbroken tenor of their way. But, though this be the general
order of their route, they, upon other occafions, are obliged to conform to
the face of the country; and, if it is interfered with rivers, they are then feen
to wind along the courfe of the {{ream. The proceffion fets forward from the
mountains with the regularity of an army under the guidance of an experienced
commander. They are commonly divided into three battalions; of which the
firft confills of the ftrongeft and boldeft males, that, like pioneers, march for-
ward to clear the way, and face the greateft dangers. Thefe are often obliged
to halt for want of rain, and to go into the moft convenient encampment till
No. 8. '
,
F f the
1 10 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
the weather changes. The main body of the army is compofed of females,
>jvhich never leave the mountains till the rain has fet in for fome time, and then
defcend in regular battalia, being formed into two columns of fifty paces broa^,
and three miles deep, and fo clofe that they almoft cover the ground. Three
or four days after this, the rear guard follows, a ilraggling undifciplined tribe,
confining of males and females, but neither fo robuft nor fp vigorous as the
former. The night is their chief time of proceeding; but, if it rains by day,
they do not fail to profit by the occafion ; and they continue to move for-
ward in their flow uniform manner. When the fun fhines and is hot upon
the furface of the ground, they then make an univerfal halt, and wait till the
cool of the evening. When they are terrified, they march back in a confufed
difarderly manner, holding up their nippers, with which they fometimes tear
off a piece of the fkin, and then leave the weapon where they infljded the
wound. They even try to intimidate their enemies; for they often clatter
their nippers together, as if were to threaten thofe that come to difturb them.
But, though they thus flrive to be formidable to man, they are much more
fo to each other; for they are poffeffed of one molt unfocial property, which
is, that, if any of them by accident is maimed in fuch a manner as to be inca-
pable of proceeding, the reft fall upon and devour it on the fpot, and then
purfue their journey.—When, after a fatiguing march, and efcaping a thou-
fand dangers, (for they are fometimes three months in getting to the fhore,)
they have arrived at their deftined port, they prepare to cafl: their fpawn.
The peafe are as yet within their bodies, and not excluded, as is ufual in ani-
mals of this kind, under the tail ; for the creature waits for the benefit of
fea-water to help the delivery. For this purpofe the crab has no fooner reached
the fhore, than it eagerly goes to the edge of the water, and lets the waves
wafh over its body two or three times. This feems only a preparation for
bringing their fpawn to maturity; for, without further delay, they withdraw
to feek a lodging upon land. In the mean time the fpawn grows larger, is ex-
cluded out of the body, and flicks to the barbs under the flap, or more pro-
perly the tail. This bunch is feen as big as a hen’s egg, and exafitly refem-
bling the roes of herrings. In this Rate of pregnancy they once more feek
the fhore for the laft time; and, fhaking off their fpawn into the water, leave
accident to bring it to maturity. At this time whole fhoals of hungry fifh
are at the fhore in expefilation of this annual fupply ;
the fea to a great diftance
feems black with them; ar»d about two thirds of the crabs’ eggs are immediately
devoured by thefe rapacious invaders. The eggs that efcape are hatched under
the fand; and, foon after, millions at a time of the little crabs are feen quitting the
fhore,
Ill
AND peCULT SCIENCE.
fhpre, ?nd flowjy travelling up to the mountains. The old ones, however, are not
fo a^iye to retuipp ;
they havie hecorae fo feeble and lean, that they can hardly
Gteep along, apd the flefh at that time changes its colour. The moft of them,
therefore, are obliged to continue in the flat parts of the country till they recover,
making holes in the earth, which they cover at the mouth with leaves and dirt?
fo that no air may enter. There they throw/ off their old fhells, which they leaves
as it were, quite whole; the place where they opened on the belly being unfeen.
At that time they are q.uite naked, and almoft without motion for fix days together,
whpn they become fo fat as to be delicious food. Tliey have then under their
ftomachs four large white ftones, which gradually decreafe in proportion as the
fhefl h^fdens, and, when they come to perfeftion, are not to be found. It is at
th?t time that the animal is feen flowly making its way back; and all this is moft
commonly performed in the fpace of fix weeks.—This animal, when poflefled of
its retreats in the mountains, is impregnable; for only fubfifting on vegetables,
it feldom ventures out; and, its habitation being in the moft inacceflible places,
it remains for a great part of the feafon in perfeft fecurity. It is only when im-
pelled by the defire of bringing forth its young, and when compelled to defcend
into the flat country, that it is taken. At that time the natives wait for its
defcent in eager expectation, and, deftroy thoufands; but, difregarding their
bodies, they only feek for that fmall fpawrr which lies on each fide the flomach
within the fhell, of about the tbickncfs of a man’s thumb. They are much,
more valuable upon their return after they have caft their fhell; for, being co-
vered with a fltin refembling foft parchment, almoft every part except the ftomach
may be eaten. They are taken in the holes by feeling for them with an inftru-
ment ; they are fought after by night, when on their journey, by flambeaux. The
inftant the animal perceives itfelf attacked, it throws itfelf on its back, and with
its claws pinches moft terribly whatever it happens to faften on. But the dexte-
rous crab-catcher takes them by the hinder legs in fuch a manner that the nip-
pers cannot touch him, and thus he throws them into hw bag. Sometimes alfo
they are caught, when they take refuge in the bottoms of holes in rocks by the
fea fide_, by clapping a flick to the mouth of the hole, which prevents their get-
ting out
;
and then foon after, the tide coming, enters the hole, and the animal
is found, upon its retiring, drowned in its retreat. —-Thefe crabs are of various
fixes, the largeft about fix inches wide; they walk fide ways like'the fea-crab, and
are flaaped like them: fonae are black, fome are yellow, fome red, and others
variegated with red, white, and yellow, mixed. Some of thefe are poifonous;
and feveral people have died of eating of the crabsj particularly of the black kind,.
The
112 AKEYTO PHYSIC,
The light-coloured are reckon heft; and, when full in flefh, are very well tafted.
In fome of the fugar-iflands they are eaten without danger; and are no fmall
help to the negro flaves, who, on many of thefe iflands, would fare very hard
without them.
Of S C E N T. <
NOTHING more eminently demonftrates the doftrine of atoms, than /cent.
It is an effluvium continually arifing from the corpufcles that iffue out of all bo-
dies j and, being impregnated with the peculiar date and quality of the blood
and juices of that particular animal from which they flow, occafions the vaft
variety of fmells or feents cognizable by the olfaftory nerves, or organs of
fmelling. Hence, the reafon why one perfon differs from another in fcent, and
why a dog will trace the footfteps of his mafter for an hundred miles together, fol-
low him into any houfe, church, or other building, and diftinguifh him from every
other perfon, though furrounded by ten thoufand ; and when the faithful animal
has thus diligently fought out and recognized his mafter, he is feldom willing
even to truft the evidence of his own eyes, until, with ereQed creft, he has taken
a few cordial fniffs, to convince himfelf he is right. Hence alfo we perceive how
a pack of hounds are enabled to purfue the hare, fox, flag, or any other animal
they are trained to hunt, acrofs the fcent, 'and amidft the fociety of others of the
fame fpecies, without being diverted from the purfuit of that felffame animal
they had JirJi on foot. And hence too we difeover how it is poffible for birds and
beafts of prey to be direfled to their food at fuch vaft diftances ; for thefe corpufcles,
iffuing from putrid bodies, and floating in the air, are carried by the wind to diffe-
rent quarters ;
and, ftriking the olfaflory nerves of whatever animals they meet
in their way,* immediately condufl them to the fpot. It matters not bow much the
effluvia may be gone off, fo as enough remains to irritate the olfaflory organ; for,
whether it be bird or beaft, they try the fcent in all diredions, till at length they
difeover that which is ftronger and ftronger in proportion as they proceed ;
and
this nature has taught them to know is the direft and obvious road to their prey,
and prevents them from following the contrary courle, which is naturally weak-
er and weaker, and what in hunting is terrried heel. This obfervaiion is con-
firmed by the increafed eagernefs we perceive in all animals, the nearer they
approach the objeft of purfuit; as we fee hounds and fpaniels in hunting and
* It is by this means the fmall-pox, meafles, putrid fevers, and all epidemic complaints, are com-
municated, and the plague and peftilence conveyed .nom one place to another.
fhooting,
113
and occult science.
fliooting, are the more earneft, in proportion as the fcent is recent, and as they draw
Bearer to the game. The fame thing, amongft quadrupeds, whether wild or
domeftic, direQs the male to the female that is in feafon for love; and hence
we fee the dog, the boar, the bull, and the ftallion, when turned loofe. apply their
Boftrils to the ambient air, and proceed accordingly. By the fame medium the ver-
min which infeft our dwellings know how to direfct their operations, whether to un-
dermine walls, eat through folid boards, crofs rivers, or climb fpouts; which (hows
how much ftronger the faculty of frnelling is poffelfed by the brute fpecies than
by the human; wifely ordained by nature, to enable them to feek their food, and
propagate their fpecies, but for which they would often perilh, or have, long fince
become extinfl.
There are wonderful inftances of feme animal carcafes, which, though flaked
with lime, and buried ten feet under ground, have fent forth fo ftrong a fcent as
to have attrafted dogs to the fpot, that eagerly endeavoured to dig away the earth
to get at them. And an inftance happened only a few years fince at Petersfield
in Hampfliire, where an unfortunate female, having privately delivered herfelf of
two children, w'ent and buried them in a deep hole in an adjoining li
; but
within three days fome dogs were attrafled to the fpot by the fcent, diig them up,
and partly devoured them before the (hocking circumflance was difeovered. No
wonder then a pack of bounds, which have caught the fcent of a polecat or weafel,
will purfue them into the thickeft foreftj and affemble round the very tree up
the trunk of which they have run for (belter; or that blood-hounds, as in
times of old, (hould trace out fugitives and robbers in fubterraneous caverns, in
trees, caves, or forefts, or in clefts of inaccelfible rocks, of which inftances are
given by the mod reputable hiftorians: ,
It is however to be remarked, that as aU
animals hunt for and purfue their prey by its fcent, fo they feem inftin6tively
to know, that they themfelves are hunted and purfued by means of the fcent
iffuing from their own bodies; but, as this fubjeQ; admits of fo much curious
and occult fpeculalion, I (hall give a few inftances of the effe61s of fcent upon dif-
ferent animals, and the fenfe and fagacity they di%lay in the management of it.
—
And firft, of the hare.
The hare is naturally a timid animal, but emanates a very ftrong fcent. He
fleeps in his form or feat during the day; and feeds, copulates, See. in the
night. In a moon-light evening, a number, of them are fometimes feen fport-
ing together, leaping and purfuing each other:, but the lead motion, the falling
of a leaf, alarms them; and then they all run off feparately, each taking a
different route. They are extremely fwift in their motion, which is a kind of
gallop, ora fucceflion of quick leaps. When purfued, they always take to the
No, 8. '
G g higher
114 AKEYTOPHYSIC,
higher grounds-; as iheir fore feet are much fliorter than the hind ones, they
run with more eafe up-hill than down-hill. The hare is endowed with all thofe
in(lin£ls which are neceffary for his own prefervation. In winter he choofes a
form expofed to the fouth, and in fummer to the north ; and has a thoufand
contrivances to elude the vigilance of his purfuers, and to cut off his fcent
from the hounds. If it be rainy, the hare ufually takes to the highways.;
and if fhe come to the fide of -a young grove, or fpring, fhe feldom enters,
but fquats down till the hounds have over-lhot her; and then fhe will return
the very way file came, for fear of the wet and dew that hangs on the boughs.—
When fhe comes near brook-fides and plafhes, fhe will make all her croffings,
doublingsj and works. Some hares have been fo crafty, that, as foon as they
have heard the found of a horn, they would inflantly ftart out of their form,
though it was at the diltance of a quarter of a mile, and go and fwim in fume
pool, and reft upon fome rufli-bed in the midft of it: and would not ftir from
thence till they have -heard the found of the horn again, and then have ftarted
out, fwimming to land, and have flood up before the hounds four hours before
they could kill them, fwimming and ufing all fubtilties and croffings in the
water. Nay, fuch is the natural craft and fubtilty of the hare, that fometimes
after flie has been hunted three hours, fhe will drive up a frefli hare, and
fquat in the fame form herfelf. Others, having been hunted a confiderable
t}me, will creep under the door of a fheep-cot, and hide themfelves among the
fheep ; or, when they have been hard hunted, will run in among a flock of fheep,
and will by no means be gottea out from among them till the hounds are coupled
up, and the fheep driven into their pens. Some of them will take the ground
like a rabbit, and run up a wall, and hide in the grafs on the top of it. Some hares
will go up one fide of the hedge and come down the other, the thicknefs of the
hedge being the only diftance between the courfes. A hare that has been forely
hunted, has got upon a quickfet hedge, and run a good way upon the top thereof,
and then leapt off upon the ground. And they will frequently betake themfelves
to furze bufhes, and v;ill leap from one to the other, to cut off the fcent, whereby
the hounds are frequently in default.—In the fpring-time or fummer, a hare will
not fit in bufhes, becaufe they are frequently infefted with pifmires, fnakes, and
adders; but will fit in corn-fields and open places. In the winter-.irne they fit
near towns and villages, in tufts of thorns and brambles, efpccially when the wind
is northerly or foutherly.—It is remarkable that the hare, although ever fo fre-
quently purfued by the dogs, feldom leaves the place where fhe was brought forth,
or even the form in which fhe ufually fits.. It is common to find them in the fame
place next day, after being long and keenly chafed the day before. The females
are
r
AND O C C U L T S C 1 E N C E. 115
are more ^rofs than the males, and have lefs ftrenglh and agility j they are likewife
more timid, and never allow the dogs to approach fo near their form before rifing,
as the males. They likewife*pra6life more arts, and double more frequently than
the* males. The hare is diffufed almoft over every climate; and, notwithftanding
they are every where hunted, their fpeeies never diminifhes. They are in a con-
dition of propagating the fird year of their lives*; the females go with young about
thirty days, and produce four or five at a time; and as foon as they have brought
forth, they again admit the embraces of the male ; fo that they may be faid to be
always pregnant. The eyes of the young are open at birth; the mother fuckles
them about twenty days, after which they feparate from her, and procure their own
food. The young never go far from the place where they were brought forth ; but
ftill they live folitary, and make forms about thirty paces difiant from each other:
thus, if a young hare be found any where, you may almoft be certain of finding
feveral others within a very fmall diftance.
The fecundity of the rabbit is ftill greater than that of the hare. They will breed
feven times in the year, arid the female fometimes brings eight young ones at a
time. Suppofing this to happen regularly for four years, the number of rabbits
from a fingle pair will amount to one million two hundred feventy-four thoufand
eight hundred and forty.—-They are in a condition for generating when fix months
old; and, like the hare, the female is almoft eonftantly in feafon; (he goes with
young about thirty days, and brings forth from four to eight at a litter. A few
days before littering, Ihe digs a hole in the earth, not in a ftraight line, but in a
zig-zag form : the bottom of this hole fhe enlarges every way, and then pulls off
a great quantity of hair from her belly, of which fbe makes a kind of bed for
her young. During the two firft days after birth, file never leaves them but when
preffed with hunger, and then ihe eats quickly and returns; and in this man-
ner Ihe fuckles and attends her young for fix weeks. All this time both the
hole and the young are concealed from tire male; fometimes, when the female goes
out, Ihe, in order to deceive the male, fills up the mouth of the hole with earth,
mixed with her own urine. But when the young ones begin to come to the mouth
of the hole, and to eat fuch herbs as the mother brings to them, the father feems
to know them ; he takes them betwixt his paws, fmooths their hair, and careffes
them with great fondnefs.
The fox is efteemed to J)e the moft fagacrous and mod crafty of all beafts of
prey. The former quality he Ihows in his method of providing himfelf with an
afylum, where he retires *from preffing dangers, where he dwells, and where he
brings up his young ; and his craftinefs is chiefly difcovered by the fchemes he
falls upon in order to catch lambs, geefe, hens, and all kinds of fmall birds. The
fox
ii6 A K E Y T O P H Y I G,
fox fixes his abode on the border of a wood, in the neighbourhood of cottages
.
he liftens to the crowing of the cock, and the cries of the poultry. He fcents them
at a diftance; he choofes his time with judgment; be conceals his road as well as"
his defign; he Qips forward with caution, fometimes eventrailing his body, and fel-
dom makes a fruitlefs expedition. In this manner he has been feen, on a moon-light
night, enter a pafture where feveral hares were feeding, when lying down, and takings
his tail in his mouth, he has trailed along like a roiling-ftone, unfufpefted by bis prey,,
till he had got too near for them all to efcape. If he can leap the wall, or get in,
underneath, he ravages the court-yard, puts all to death, and then retires loftly with,
his prey, which he either hides under the herbage, or carries off to his keanehi. He.
returns in a few minutes for another, which he carries off, or conceals in the fame’
manner, but in a different place. In this way be proceeds till the prog refs of the
fun, or fome movements perceived in the houfe, adveriife him; that it is time to
fufpend his operations, and to retire to his den. He plays the. fame game with the.
catchers of ihrufhes, wood-cocks, &c. He vifits the nets and bird-lime very early
in the morning, carries off fucceflively the birds which are entangled, and lays them,
in different places, efpecially near the fides of highways, in the furrows, under the
herbage or brufhwood, where they fometimes lie two or three days; but he knows
perfeftly where to find them when he is in need. He hunts the young hares in
the plains, feizes old ones in their feats, never raiffcs thofe which are wounded,
digs out the rabbits in the warrens,, difcovers the nefls of partridges and quails,
feizes the mothers on the eggs, and deftroys a vaft quantity of game. The fox is
exceedingly voracious; befides flefh of all kinds, he eats, with equal avidity, eggs,
milk, cheefe, fruits, and particularly grapes. When the young hares and partridges
fail him, he makes war againfl rats, field-mice, ferpents, lizards, toads, &c. Of thefe
be deftroys vaft numbers ; and this is the only fervice he does to mankind. He is fo
fond of honey, that he attacks the wild bees, wafps, and hornets. They at firft put him
lo flight by a thoufand flings ; but he retires only for the purpofe of rolling himfelf on
the ground to crufh them ; and he returns fo often to the charge, that he obliges them
to abandon the hive, which he foon uncovers, and devours both the honey and wax.
He will alfo devour fifties, lobfters, grafs-hoppers, See. Foxes produce but once
a-year; and the litter commonly confifts of four or five, feldom fix, and never lefs than,
three. When the female is full, fhe retires, and feldom goes out of her hole, where fhe
prepares a bed for her young. When fhe perceives that her retreat is difeovered, and
that her young have been difturbed, fhe carries them off one by one, and goes in fearch
of another habitation. The fox, as well as the congenerous wolf, will produce with
the dog kind, as noticed before.—The fox fleeps found, and may be eafily approached
without awakening: he fieeps in a round form, like the dog; but, when he only^
repofes
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 117
repofes hrmfelf, he extends his hind legs, and lies on his belly. It is in this fitua-
tion that he fpies the birds along the hedges, and meditates fchemes for catching
them. The fox flies when he hears the exploflon of a gun, or fmells gunpowder.
Being exceedingly fond of grapes, he does much mifchief in vineyards.—When
purfued by the hounds, he feldom fails to deceive and fatigue them, becaufe he
purpofely paffes through the thickell parts of the foreft or places of the moft difli-
cult accefs, where the dogs are hardly able to follow him; and, when he takes to
the plains, he runs ftraight out, without flopping or doubling.—He is a great ad-
mirer of his own tail, with which he frequently amufes and exercifes himfelf, by run-
ning in circles to catch it : and, in cold weather, wraps it round his nofe. The
fmell of this animal is in general very flrong, but that of the urine is remarkably
fetid. This feems fo offenfive even to itfelf, that it will take the trouble of dig-
ging a hole in the ground, flretching its body at full length over it ; and there,
after depofiting its water, covers it over with the earth, as the cat does its dung.
The fmell is fo obnoxious, that it has often proved the means of the fox’s efcape
from the dogs; who have fo flrong an averfion at the filthy effluvia, as to avoid
encountering the animal it came from. It is faid the fox makes ufe of its urine as
an expedient to force the cleanly badger from its habitation : whether that be the
means, is rather doubtful ;
but that the fox makes ufe of the badger’s hole is cer-
tain; not through want of ability to form its own retreat, but to fave itfelf fome
trouble; for, after the expulfion of the firfl inhabitant, the fox improves as well as
enlarges it confiderably, adding feveral chambers, and providently making feveral
entrances to fecure a retreat from every quarter. In warm weather, it will quit its
habitation for the fake of baflcing in the fun, or to enjoy the free air; but then it
rarely lies expofed, but choofes fome thick brake, that it may refl fecure from fur-
prife. Crows, magpies, and other birds, who confider the fox as their common
enemy, will often, by their notes of anger, point out his retreat.
The flag or buck is the moft crafty of all the fpecies of deer. He conceals him-
felf with great addrefs, is moft difiicult to trace, and derives fuperior refources from
inftin6l; for, though he has the misfortune to leave behind him a flrong fcent,
which redoubles the ardour and appetite of the hounds, he knows how to withdraw
himfelf from their purfuit, by the rapidity with which he begins his flight, and by
his numerous doublings. He delays not his arts of defence till his ftrength fails
him; but, as foon as he finds that the firfl efforts of a rapid chace have been un-
fuccefsful, he -repeatedly retraces his former fteps ;
and after confounding, by
thefe oppofite movements, the diredion he has taken, after intermixing the pre-
fent with the paft ,
fcent from his body, be rifes from the earth by a great bound,
and, retiring to a fide^ he lies down flat on his belly, and in this immoveable
No. 8. H h •
fituation
A KEY TO PHYSIC
fituation he allows the whole troop of his deceived enemies to pafs very near liirn.
His laft refuge, when forely hunted, is the foil, keeping the middle, fearing
left, by touching a bough, or a fhrub, he may give greater fcent to the hounds.
He always fwims againft the ftream, and will often cover himfelf under water, fo
as to fhow nothing but his nofe. Where opportunity of water fails, he will fly
into herds of cattle, as cows, Iheep, &c. and will fometimes leap on an ox, cow,
or the like, that he may leave no fcent on the ground. What is ftill more re-
markable, it is related by the principal huntfman of Louis XII. that a buck which
they had hunted for a long time, being at laft hard prefted, leaped into the
middle of a very large white-thorn, in order to cut off its fcent; and there ftood
aloft till he was run through by the huntfman, rather than ftir from the place to
be worried by the dogs.—Their feafon of love commences about the end of Auguft
or beginning of September, when they leave the coppice, return to the forefts, and
fearch for the hinds. They cry with a loud voice ;
their neck and throat fwell
;
they become extremely reftlefs, and traverfe in open day the fields and the fallow
grounds; they ftrike their horns againft the trees and hedges ; in a word, they feein
to be tranfported with fury, and run from country to country, till they find the hinds
or females, whom they purfue and compel into compliance ; for the female at firft
avoids and flies from the male, and never fubmits to his embraces till ftie is fatigued
with the purfuit. The old hinds likewife come in feafon before the younger ones.
When two bucks approach the fame hind, they muft fight before they enjoy. If
nearly equal in ftrength, they threaten, paw the ground, fet up terrible cries, and
attack each other with fuch fury, that they often inflidl mortal wounds with the
ftrokes of their horns. The combat never terminates but in the defeat or flight of
one of the rivals. The conqueror lofes not a moment in enjoying his vidlory, unlefs
another rival approaches, w'hom he is again obliged to attack and repel. The oldeft
ftags are always mafters of the field . becaufe they are ftronger and more furious
than the young ones, who muft wait patiently till their fuperiors tire, and quit their
miftrefles. Sometimes, however, the young ftags accomplifh their purpofe while
the old ones are fighting, and, after a hafty gratification, fly off. The hinds prefer
the old ftags, not becaufe they are moft courageous, but becaufe they are much
more ardent. It has been alleged, that, attraded by the fcent of the hinds, the
ftags in the rutting-feafon throw themfelves into the fea, and pafs from one ifland
to another at the diftance of feveral leagues. They leap ftill more nimbly than they
fwim ; for, when purfued, "they eafily clear a hedge or fence of fix or feven feet
high; and on all prefting occafions fliow aftoniftiing fenfe and fagacity.
The fenfes of the wolf are likewife excellent, particularly his fenfe offmelling, which
often extends farther than his eye. The odour of carrion ftrikes him at the diftance
of
119
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES.
of more than a league. He likewife fcents live animals very far, and hunts them
a long time by following their track. When he iffues from the wood, he never lofes
the wind. He flops on the borders of the foreft, fmells on all (ides, and receives
the corpufcles of living or dead animals brought to him from a diftance by the
wind. Though he prefers living to dead animals, yet he devours the mofl putrid
carcafes. He is fond of human flefh ;
and, if flronger, he would perhaps eat no
other. Wolves have been known to follow armies, and to come in troops to the
field of battle, where bodies are carelefsly interred, to tear them up, and to devour
them with an infatiable avidity; and, when once accuflomed to human flefh, they
ever after attack men, prefer the fhepherd to the flock, devour women, and carry
off children. The wolf, unlike the dog, is an enemy to all fociety, and keeps no
company even ivith thofe of his own fpecies. When feveral wolves unite together,
it is not a fociety of peace, but of war ;
it is attended with tufinult and dreadful
bowlings, and indicates an attack upon fome large animal, as a flag, an ox, or a
formidable mafliff. This military expedition is no fooner finifhed, than they fepa-
rate, and each returns in filence to his folitude. There is even little intercourfe be-
tween the males and females : they feel the mutual attradlions of love but once a-
year, and never remain long together. The females come in feafon in winter; many
males follow the fame female; and this affociation is more bloody than the former;
for they growl, chace, fight, and tear one another, and often facrifice him that is
preferred by the female. The female commonly flies a long time, fatigues her ad-
mirers, and retires, while they fleep, with the mofl alert or favourite male. The
wolves copulate like dogs, and have an ofTeous penis, furrounded with a ring, which
fwells and hinders them from feparating. When the females are about to bring
forth, they fearch for a concealed place in the inmofl receffes of the forefl. The
puppies come into the world blind, like dogs ;
the mother fuckles them fome weeks,
and foon teaches them to eat flefh, which fhe prepares for them by tearing it into
fmall pieces. Some time after fhe brings them field-mice, young hares, partridges,
and live fowls. The young wolves begin by playing with thefe animals, and at lafl
worry them ; then the mother pulls off the. feathers, tears them in pieces, and gives
a part to each of her young. They never leave their den till the end of fix weeks
or two months. They then follow their mother, who leads them to drink in the
hollow trunk of a tree, or in fome neighbouring' pool. She condudls them back
to the den, or, when any danger is apprehended, obliges them to conceal them-
felves elfewhere. Though, like other females, the fhe-wolf is naturally more timid
than the male, yet, when her young are attacked, fhe defends them with intre-
pidity ;
fhe lofes all fenfe of danger, and becomes perfedlly furious. She never
leaves them till they are fo flrong as to need no affiflance or protection, and till
190 A KEY TO PHYSIC
they have acquired talents fit for rapine. The wolf has great ftrength, efpecially in
the anterior parts of the body, in the mufcles of the neck, and jaws. He carries a
fheep in his mouth, and at the fame time outruns the fliepherds ; fo that he can
only be (lopped or deprived of his prey by dogs. His bite is cruel, and always
more obftinate in proportion to the fmallnefs of the refiftance ;
for, when an animal
can defend itfelf, he is cautious and circumfpe6l. He never fights but from necef-
fity, and not from motives of courage. When wounded with a ball, he cries ; and
yet, when difpatching him with bludgeons, he complains not. When he falls into
a fnare, he is fo overcome with terror, that he may be either killed or taken alive
without refiftance ;
he allows himfelf to be chained, muzzled, and led where you
pleafe, without exhibiting the lead fymptom of refentment or difcontent. Wolves
are now fo rare in the populated part of America, that the inhabitants leave their
llieep the whole night unguarded ;
yet the government of Pennfylvania and New
Jerfey did fome years ago allow a reward of twenty (hillings, and the laft even
thirty (liillings, for the killing of a wolf. Tradition informed them what a fcourge
thofe animals had been to the colonies; fo they wifely determined to prevent the
like evil. In their infant (late, wolves came down in multitudes from the moun-
tains, often attradled by the fmell of the corpfes of hundreds of Indians who died
of the fmall-pox, brought among them by the Europeans : but the animals did iiot
confine their infults to the dead, but even devoured, in their huts the fick and dying
favages.—Britain, a few centuries ago, was much infefted by them. They were, as
appears by Hollingftiead, very noxious to the flocks in Scotland in 1577; nor were
they entirely extirpated till about 1680, when the laft wolf fell by the hands of the
famous Sir Owen Cameron. Edward I. iffued out his royal mandate to Peter Corbet
to fuperintend and affift in the deftrudlion of them in the feveral counties of Glou-
cefter, Worcefter, Hereford, Salop, and Stafford ;
and in the adjacent county of
Derby, certain perfons at Wormhill held their lands by the duty of hunting and
taking the wolves that infefted the country, whence they were ftiled wolve-hunt. To
look back into the Saxon times, we find that in Athelftan’s reign wolves abounded
fo in Yorklhire, that a retreat was built at Flixton in that county, “ to defend
paffengers from the wolves, that they (hould not be devoured by them ;” and fuch
ravages did thefe animals make during winter, particularly in January, when the
cold was fevereft, that the Saxons diftinguiflied that month by the name of the
wolf-month. —^At the Cape of Good Hope, there is a fpecies called the tiger-wolf,
which is poffeffed of the peculiar gift of being enabled, in fome meafure, to
imitate, the cries of other animals ;
by which means this arch-deceiver is fome-
times enabled to beguile and attradl calves, foals, lambs, and other animals.
Near fome of the larger farms, where there is a great deal of cattle, this ravenous
beaft
A N D O C C U L T S C I E N C E. i£i
bead is to be found almoft every night ;
and at the fame time frequently from one
hour to another betraying itfelf by its bowlings, gives the dogs the alarm. In this
cafe the cunning of the wolves is fo great, that a party of them, half flying and half
defending themfelves, will decoy the whole pack of dogs to follow them to the dif-
tance of a gun-fhot Or more from the farm, with a view to give an opportunity to the
reft of the wolves to come out from their ambufcade, and, without meeting with
the leaft refiflance, carry off booty fufficient for themfelves and their fugitive bre-
thren. The tiger-wolf, though a much larger and ftronger animal, does not ven-
ture, without being driven to the uimoft neceflity, to meafure its ftrength with the
common dog, which is certainly an evident proof of its cowardice, Notwithftand-
ing this, the Hottentots inform us, that it is ftill within the memory of man, that
the tiger-wolf was bold enough to fteal upon them and moleft them in their huts,
particularly by carrying off their children. This, however, is now no longer the
cafe; a circumftance, perhaps, proceeding from the introduction of fire-arms into
the country, an invention which, in thefe latter times, has caufed this, as well as
other wild beafts, to Hand in greater awe of man than it did formerly. I have
heard the following ftory of the tiger-wolf mentioned, which is laughable enougbj
though perhaps not quite fo probable : At a feaft near the Cape one night, a trum-
peter who had got his fill was carried out of doors, in order that he might cool him-
felf, and get fober again. The feent of him foon drew thither a tiger-wolf, which
threw him on his back, and dragged him along as a corpfe, up towards Table-moun-
tain. During this, however, the drunken mufician waked, enough in his fenfes to
know the danger of his fituation, and to found the alarm with his trumpet, which
he carried fattened to his fide. The wild beaft, as may eafily be fuppofed, was
not lefs frightened in his turn.” Any other befides a trumpeter would in fuch cir-
cumftances have undoubtedly been no better than wolf’s meat.
The jackal appears to have the gift of feent equal to a dog, of which it Teems to
be a wild fpecies. They go in packs of forty, fifty, and even two hundred, and bunt
like hounds in full cry from evening to morning. They deftroy flocks and poultry,,
but in a lefs degree than the wolf or fox : ravage the ftreets of villages and gardens
near towns, and will even dell toy children, if left unprotefted. They will enter
ftables and outhoufes, and devour fkins, or any thing made of that material. They
will familiarly enter a tent, and fteal whatfoever they find from the fleeping traveller.
In default of living prey, they will feed on roots and fruits j and even on the moft
infeCled carrion: they will greedily difinter the dead, and devour putrid earcafes.
They attend caravans, and follow armies, in hopes thatdeath will provide them a
banquet. Their voice naturally is a howl. Barking, Mr. Pennant obferves, is la-
tently inherent; and in their ftaie of nature feldom e^terted: but its difFerent modi-
No, 8, I i ficatioiTs
122 A K E Y TO PHYSIC,
£c3ticns are adv-cndtious, and expreflivc of the pew paffions and affeflions gained
by a domeRic Rate. Their bowlings and clamours in the night are dreadful, and
fo loisd that people can fcarcely hear one another fpeak. Dellon fays, their voice is
like the cries of a great many children of different ages mixed together: when one
begins to howl, the whole pack join in the cry. This animal is vulgarly called the
Lion’s Provider, from an opinion that it rouzes the prey for tl'at quadruped. The
fa£l is, every creature in the forefl is fet in moiipn by the fearful cries of the jackals-;
the lion, and other beads of rapine, -by a fort of inffindf, attend to the chace, and
lie in wait, to feize fuch timid animals as betake themfelves to flight at the noife of-
this nightly pack.
From what has been Hated, as well as from the contemplation of nature, in genera!^,
it will appear, that there is an occult inHindfive principle infufed into the whole race
of animal beings, whereby they are unerringly led on to the propagation and pre-
fervation of their fpecies; yet fo as that no one fltall become too numerous fur the
exiftence of another, upon which they prey, or with which they live in a conti-
nual Hate of warfare. We may likewife remark, that the more funilarity we dif-
cover among brutes, the more amicable we find them towards each other, becaufe
the corpufcles of their bodies have an agreement pleafing to their fenfitive faculty,
without exciting the appetite; but for which the fanhe fj.ccies would inceffantly
devour each other, and the purpofes of creation would be annihilated by tlie opera-
tion of its own works. Contrary however to fuch a violation of order, we find
the beads of the fored, and brute animals in general, prey by antipathy upon thofe
which are oppofite or inimical in feent and fpecies to themfelves; and alTociate by
fympathy with thofe of fimilar and concordant qualities; but the mod powerful
efFeft of fympathy is to be found betw'een the male and female-of one and the fame
clafs of beings; as we (hall demondrate more fatisfafilorily and pleafingly, in our
confiderations
On man.
MAN is placed at the head of the animal creation, and is a being who feels,
reflefits, thinks, contrives, and a6ls; who has power of changing his place upon
the earth at pleafure; who pofTeffes the faculty of communicating his thoughts by
means of fpeech; and who has dominion over all other creatures on the face of the
globe. Animated and enlightened by a ray from the Elivinity, he furpafles in
dignity every material being. He fpends lefs of his time in foiitude than in fociety,
or in obedience to thofe laws which he himfelf has framed,
' The hidory of man is an objett of attention highly interedingj whether we con.-
fiderhim in the different periods of his lifcj or take a view' of the varieties of his
. fpecies.
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 123
fpecies, or examine the wonderful fyrametry and conflruQion of his parts in the
womb, or the more mature completion and organization of his body in perfect
manhood.—I (halJ therefore attempt fiid to give a fhort fketch of him in thefe dif-
ferent points of view; and theti, by eoiihdering the athions and paflions of his mind,
the infirmities of his nature, the afftftions of his hearty the objefis ofhis purfuits,
and the impreflion of the celeftial, elementary, and atmofpherical, influx; of light,
heat, colour, motion, magnetif n, eleftricity, and the univerfal fpirit of nature which
a£ls upon his conftitu ion; deduce ihofe obvious and inevitable caufes that refuk
from them, and w'hich it fhould be the care of every man to know, who would wifli
to difcover the golden Key- to the occult operations of Nature, and to the fecret
of preferving health and long lcfe.
Nofce teipjim, “ Know thyfelf,” is a precept worthy of the lawgiver of Athens
:
it has been called the firfl ftep to wifdom, and was formerly written in letters of gold
in the temple of Diana. In purfuit of this important information, Man may be
contemplated in the following refpebls:
PHYsroLOGrc ALLY,—3S a frail machine, chiefly compofed of nerves and fibres
interwoven with each other. His molt perfebl ftate is during youth; and he is en-
dowed with faculties more numerous, and in higher perfeblion, than thofe of all
other anima\^. “ Man, intended for exercifing dominion over the whole animal
creation, is fent by Nature into the world naked, forlorn, and bewailing his lot;
he is then nnahlf> fn nH- his hands or feet, and is incapable of acquiring any kind of
knowledge without inftrublion; he can nejm.,*
form any aBion whatever by natural indina-.” Pliny.— We may judge what kind
of life is allotted to us by Nature, fince it is ordained, as an omen, that we fhould
come weeping into the world Seneca — It is humiliating to the pride of man, to
confider the pitiable origin of this m.od arrogant of all the animals:” Pliny.'
Dietetically.—Cwra valetudmem. Bodily health and tranquillity. of mind arc .
more to be defired than all the riches, pomp, or glory, of a Cresfus,- a Solomon,
or an Alexander. Health is to be prelerved by moderation; it is deflroyed by ab-
ftinence, injured by a variety of delicacies, weakened by unufual things, and.
ftrengthened by the ufe of proper and accudomed fare. Man, learned in the per-
nicious art of cookery, is fond of many difhes, rendered palatable by the injurious
effebts of fire, and by the baneful addition of wine. “ Hunger is fatisfied with a
fmall quantity of food, while luxury demands overabundance. Imagination requires
vafl fupplies; while nature is contented with a moderate quantity of ordinary food,
and is burthened by fuperfluity —“•According as thou liveft, fo fhall thy
life be enjoyed. '
'
Fat HO-
124 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
Pathologioally.
—Memento mori
}
The life of man refembles a bubble rCdOy
to burftj his fate is/ufpended by a hair, and is dependent on the uncertain laple
of time. “ The earth contains nothing more frail than man Homer.
—“ Nothing
is weaker than human life: to what dangers, and to how many difeafes, is it not
expofed ! Hence the whole period of a man’s life is but a fpan : half of it is ne-
celfarily fpent in a Rate refembling death; without including the years of infancy,
wherein there is no judgment; or the perioa ot old age, fertile in fulFerings, during
which the fenfes are blunted, the limbs become ftiff, and the faculties of fight and
hearing, the powers of walking, and the teeth, the indruments of nourifliment,
fail before the reft of the body Pliny.— Thus a confiderable part of death is
fufi'ered during life; and death poffeffes ail that belonged to the times which are
paft. Finally, nature will fpeedily recal and deftroy all the beings which thou feeft,
and all that thy imagination can fuppofe to exift hereafter; for death calls equally
upon all, whether they be good or whether they be evil Seneca.
Naturally.—Jnnocui vivite^ Numen adejl ! Man, the prince of animiated beings,
who is a miracle of nature, and for whom all things on this earth were created, is
a mimic animal, weeping, laughing, fmging, fpeaking ;
traftable, judicious, in-
quifitive, and moft wife; he is weak and naked, unprovided with natural weapons,
expofed to all the injuries of fortune, needful of affiftance from others, of an anx-
ious mind, felicitous of proteaion, continually complaining, changeable in temper,
obftinate in hope, and flow in the acquifition of wifdom. He defpifes die time
r— ^ k.s affeaions on the uncertain
future; thus continually neglefting winged time, which, though infinitely precious,
can never be recalled: for thus the bell and readieft time, in every age, flies on
with miferable mortals; fome it fummons to attend their daily and burihenfome
labours; fome it confines to luxurious inaftion, pampered even to fulfocation with
fuperfluities ;
fome it folicits in the ever-reltlefs paths of ambition; fome it renders
anxious for the acquifition of wealth, and diftreffes by the polfeflion of the thing
defired; fome it condemns to folitude, and others to have their doors continually
crouded with vifitors ; here one bewails the condu£l of his children, there one grieves
their lofs. Tears will fooner fail us than their caufes, which only oblivion can
remove. “ On every hand our evils overbalance our advantages ; we are fur-
rounded with dangers; we rulh forwards into untried fituations; we are enraged
without having received provocation; like wild beafts, we deftroy thofe vVe do not
hate; we wilh for favourable gales, which lead us only to deftruflion; the earth
yawns wide, ready for our death Seneca. —“ Other animals unite together againfl;
enemies of a kind diflPerent from their own, while man fuffers moft injuries from
his own fpecies:” Pliny,
Pon-
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 125
Politically. —F^fto aniiqna virtute et fide ! Man, inftead of following that
which is right, is fubje6ted to the guidance of manifeft error; this envelopes all
his faculties- under the thick veil of cuftom, as foon as he is born; according to its
di6lates he is. fed, educated; brought upj and diredled' in all things; and by its
arbitrary rules his honefty, fortitude, wifdom, morality, and religion, are judged of;
thus, governed by opinion; he lives conformably to cullom, inftead of being
guided by reafon. Though fent into the world a perifliable being, (for all are evi-
dently born to fuffer,) inftead of endeavouring to fecure thofe things which are moft
advantageous and truly beneficial. Tie, infatuated by the fmiles of fortune, anxioufly
colle6ls her gaudy trifles for future enjoyment, and neglects her real benefits ; he
is driven to raadnefs by envious fnarlers; he perfecutes with hatred the truly relL
gious for differing from himfelf in fpeculative opinions ;
he excites numberlefs
broils, not that he may do good, but for a purpofe that even himfelf is ignorant of.
He waftes his precious and irrecoverable time in trifles; he thinks lightly of im-
mortal and eternal concerns, while regulating the fucceffion of his pofterity; and
perpetually entering on new projeds, forgetful of his real condition, he builds pa-
laces inftead of preparing his grave; till at length, in the midft of his fehernes,
death feizes him; and then, firft opening his eyes, he perceives, O man! that all is
delufion. “ Thus we live as if immortal, and firft learn in death that we have to
die Seneccu
Morally. —Benefac et Icetarel Man is compofed of an animated medullary
fubftance, which prompts him to that which is right; and of a bodily frame liable to
impreftions which inftigate him to the enjoyment of pleafure. In his natural ftate
he is foolifh; wanton, an inconfiderate follower of example, ambitious, profufe,
diffatisfied, cunning, peevifh, invidious, malicious, and covetous; by the influence
of juft morals he is transformed to be attentive, chafte, confiderate, modeft,
temperate, quiet, fiiicere, mild, beneficent, grateful, and contented. “ Sorrow',
luxury, ambition, avarice, the defire of life, and anxiety for the future, are common
to all animals Pliny:
Theologically.—Memento Creatoris tut! Man, the ultimate purpofe of crea-
tion, and mafterpiece of the works of Omnipotence, was placed on earth that he
might contemplate its perfections;, he was endowed with fapient reafon, and made
capable of forming conclufions from the impreftions of his- fen fes> that, from a con-
lideration of created objeCls he might know their Creator as the Almighty, the In--
finite, the Omnifcient; the Eternal,. God: that we may live morally under his
governing care, it is requifite that.we have a thorough conviClion of his exiftence,
and muft have it ever in remembrance. “ There are two things which lead to a-
knowledge of God; creation and revelation:” Augujiine.—“ God, therefore, may
No. 9. K.k ,
be.
X
126 A KEY TO PHYSIC
be found out by the light of nature, but is only to b^ known by the affiftance of
do6lrine:” Tertullian. —“Man alone has the ineftimable privilege of contemplating
the perfe6tions of God, who is the author both of nature and of revelation Ihid.
—
“ Learn that God has both ordered you to exift, and that you diould ftudy to qSl
that part properly which is alloted for you in life:” Perf. Sat. iii. 71.
In the Syftema Naturae, Man (Homo
)
is ranked as a difHn6l genus of the order
Primates or “Chiefs,” belonging to the Mammalia clafs of animals, or thofe which
nourith their young by means of ladliferous teats or paps. Of this genus he is the
only fpecies; and denominated Sapiens, as being endowed with wifdom far fuperior
to, or rather in exclufion of, all other animals.
—
Ho. varies, from climate, education,
and habits ;
and the following varieties, exclufive of wild men, are enumerated by
Linnasus.
Americans. “ Of copper-coloured complexion, choleric conftitution, and remark-
ably eredt.”—Their hair is black, lank, and coarfe; their noftrils are wide; their
features harfli, and the chin is fcantily fupplied with beard. Are obftinate in their
tempers, free and fatisfied with their condition; and are regulated in all their pro-
ceedings by traditional cuftoins.—Paint their fkin with red ftreaks.
Europeans. “ Of fair complexion, fanguine temperament, and brawny form.”
The hair is flowing, and of various fhades of brown ; the eyes are moftly blue.
—
They are of gentle manners, acute in judgment, of quick invention, and governed
by fixed laws.—Drefs in clofe veftments.
AJiatics. “Of footy complexion, melancholic temperament, and rigid fibre.”
—
The hair is ftrong, black, and lank; the eyes are dark brown. They are of grave,
haughty, and covetous, manners; and are governed by opinions.—Drefs in loofe
garments.
Africans. “Of black complexion, phlegmatic temperament, and relaxed fibre.”
The hair is black and frizzly ; the fkin foft and filky; the nofe flat: the lips are
thick; and the female has a natural apron, and long lax breafls.—They are of
crafty, indolent, and carelefs, difpofitions, and governed in their actions by caprice.
—Anoint the fkin with greafe.
The following arrangement of the varieties in the human fpecies is offered by Dr.
Gmelin as more convenient than that of Linnajus
:
a, White, (Horn, alhus.) Formed by the rules of fymmetrical elegance and
beauty; or at leaft what we confider as fuch.—This divifion includes almofl all the
inhabitants of Europe; thofe of Afia on this fide of the Oby, the Cafpian, Mount
Imaus, and the Ganges; likewife the natives of the north of Africa, of Greenland,
and the Efquimaux.
h, Brown:
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. m
b. Brown : (Horn, badius.) Of a yellowifli brown colour ;
has fcanty hair, flat
features, and fmall eyes.—This variety takes in the whole inhabitants of Afia not
included in the preceding divifion.
c. Black : ( Horn, nige^.) Of black complexion ;
frizzly hair, flat nofe, and thick
lips.—The whole inhabitants of Africa, excepting thofe of its more northern parts.
d. Copper-coloured: (Horn, cupreus.) The complexion of the fkin refembles
the colour of copper not burniflied.—The whole inhabitants of America, except
thd»Greenlanders and Efquimaux.
e. Tawny: (Horn, fiifcus.) Chiefly of a dark blackifli-brown colour ; having a
broad nofe, and harfh coarfe ilraight hair. —The inhabitants of the fouthern iflands,
and of moft of the Indian iflands.
Morifters. Of thefe there are feveral varieties ;
the firft and fecond of which, in
the following lift, are occafioned by peculiarity of climate, while the reft are pro-
duced by artificial management. 1. Alpini
:
The inhabitants of the northern moun-
tains : they are fmall in'ftature, acftive, and timid in their difpofitions. 2. Patagonici:
The Patagonians of South America ; of vaft fize, and indolent in their manners.
3. Monorchides
:
The Hottentots ;
having one tefticle extirpated. 4. Imberbes
:
Moft
of the American nations ;
who eradicate their beards and the hair from every part
of the body except the fcalp. 5. Macrocephali
:
The Chinefe; who have their heads
artificially forced into a conical form. 6. Plagiocephali
:
The Canadian Indians,
who have the fore part of their heads flattened, when young, by compreffion.
We have likewife the following account of monfters : Homines feri; defcribed
as walking on all- fours, as being dumb, and as covered with hair.—1. A youth found
in Lithuania, in 1761, refembling a bear. 2. A youth found in Hefle, in 1544,
refembling a wolf. 3. A youth in Ireland refemhling a Iheep, ( Tulp. Obf. iv. ft.)
4. A youth in Bamberg refembling an ox, (Camerarius. ) 5. A wild youth found in
1724 in Hanover. 6. Wild boys found in 171ft in the Pyrenees. 7. A wild girl
found in 1717 in Overyfel. 8. A wild girl found in 1631 in Champagne, ft. A
wild lad found near Leyden, ( Boerhaave.
)
—Thefe and other inftances of wild
men, their fimilitudes, extraction, and generation, being foreign to the prefent
fubjeCt, I fliall treat largely of them in a future work on Natural History.*
Thofe characters in the form of man by which he is diftinguifhed from brute
animals, are reducible to two heads. The firft is the ftrength of the mufcles of the
legs, by which the body is fupported in a vertical pofition above them : the fecond
confifts in the articulation of the head with the neck by the middle of its bafe. We
ftand upright, bend our body, and walk, without thinking on the power by which
we
* Since publilhed at No. 17, Ave-Maria-Lane, St Paul’s, in 14V0IS. 8vo. See vol. i. oGhat work.
128 A KEY TO PHYSIC
we are fupported in thefe feveral pofitions. This power refides chiefly in the
mufcles which conftitute the principal partfif the calf of the leg. Their exertion is
felt, and their motion is vifible externally, when we ftand upright and bend
our body backwards and forwards. This power is no lefs great when we walk even
on an horizontal plane. In afcending a height, the weight of the body is more fen-
fibly felt than in defcending. All thefe motions are natural to man. Other animals,
on the contrary, w'hen placed on their hind legs, are either incapable of performing
them at all. Or do it partially, with great difficulty, and for a very fhort time. The
gibbon, and i\\ejocko or ourang-outang, are the animals moft refembling man in their
conftru6tion : they can ftand upright with much lefs difficulty than other brutes; but
the reftraint they are under in this attitude plainly ftiows that it is not natural
to them. The reafon is, that the mufcles in the back part of the leg in the gibbon
and the jocko are not, as in man, fufficiently large to form a calf, and confequently
not fufficiently ftrong to fupport the thighs and body in a vertical line, and to pre-
ferve them in that pofture.—The attitudes proper to man, and to the animals,
are pointed out by the different manners in which the head is articulated with the
neck. The tw'o points, by which the offeous part of the head is connedled with the
firft vertebra of the neck, and on w'hich every movement of the head is made with
the greateft facility, are placed at the edge of the great foramen of the occipital
bone, which in man is fituated near the centre of the bafe of tbe cranium, affords a
paffage for the medullary fubftance into the vertebr®, and determines the place of
the articulation of the head with the neck. The body and neck being, according to
the natural attitude, in a vertical dire6lion, the head muft be placed in equilibrium
upon the vertebrce as upon a pivot or point of fupport. The face is on a vertical
line, almoft parallel to that of the body and neck. The jaws, which are very fliort
compared with thofe of moft other animals, extend very little farther forwards than
the forehead.—No animal has, like man, its hind legs as long as the body, neck, and
head, taken together, meafuring from the top of the head to the os pubis. —In the-
frame of the human body the principal parts are nearly the fame with thofe-
of other animals; but in the connexion and form of the bones, there is as great a
difference as in the attitudes proper to each. Were a man to affume the natural
pofture of quadrupeds, and try to walk by the help of his hands and feet,, he would
find himfelf in a very unnatural fituation ;
he could not move his feet and head
but with the greateft difficulty and pain ;
and, let him make what exertions he
pleafed, he would find it imj)offible to attain a fteady and continued pace. The
principal obftacles he would meet with would arife from the ftru6lure of the pelvis,
the hands, the feet, and the head.—The plane of the great occipital foramen, which
in man is almoft horizontal, puts the head in a kind of equilibrium upon
^ '
the
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 129
/
the neck when we ftand ere6l in our natural attitude; but, when we are in the
attitude of quadrupeds, it prevents us from raifing our head fo as to look forwards,
becaufe the movement of the head is Hopped by the protuberance of the occiput,
which then approaches too near the vertebr® of the neck.—In moft animals, the
foramen magnum of the occipital bone is fituated at the back part of the head; the
jaws are very long; the occiput has no protuberance beyond the aperture, the
plane of which is in a vertical dire6lion, or inclined a little forwards or backwards;
fo that the head is pendant, and joined to the neck by its pofterior part. This po-
fition of the head enables quadrupeds, though their bodies are in a horizontal di*
re6lion, to prefent their muzzle forwards, and to raife it fo as to reach above them,
or to touch the earth with the extremity of their jaws when they bring their neck
and head dowm to their feet. In the attitude of quadrupeds, man could touch the
earth only with the fore part or the top of the head.—When man is Handing, his
heel reHs upon the earth as well as the other parts of his foot; when he walks, it is
thefirH part which touches the ground; man can Hand on one foot: thefe are pe*'
Guliarities in Hru6fure and in the manner of moving which are not to be found in
other animals. We may therefore conclude that man cannot be ranked in the clafs
of quadrupeds. We may add, that in man the brain is much larger, and the jaws
much Ihorter, than in any other animal. The brain, by its great extent, forms
the protuberance of the occipital bone, the forehead, and all that part of the head
which is above the ears. In animals, the brain is fo fmall, that moH of them have
no occiput, or the front is either weanling or little raifed. In animals which have
large foreheads, fuch as the horfe, the ox, the elephant, &c. they are placed as
low, and even lower, than the ears. Thefe animals likewife want the occiput,
and the top of the head is of very fmall extent.. The jaws, which form the greatefl
portion of the muzzle, are large in proportion to the fmallnefs of the brain. The
length of the muzzle varies in different animals i in folipede animals it is very
long; it is Ihort in the ourang-outang; and in man it does not exiH at all. No
beard grows on the muzzle.
AnatomiHs have employed much pains in the Hudy of the material part of man,,
and of that organization which determines his place in the animal creation. From
tracing and combining his different external parts;: from obferving that his body is
in fome places covered with hair; that he can w'alk upon his hands and his feet at
the fame time, in the manner of quadrupeds ;. that, like certain animals which hold
their food in their paws, he has two clavicles ;
that the female brings forth her
young alive,, and that her breafts are fupplied with milk; from thefe circumHances
we might be led to aflign man a place in the clafs of viviparous quadrupeds. But,
in truth, fuch an arrangement would be defective, arbitrary, and abfurd. Man is
No., 9. L. 1 not
ISO A KEY TO PHYSIC
not a quadruped : of all the animals, he alone can fupport himfelf continually,
and without reftraint, in an ere6t pofture; (
that is, with his head and body in a
vertical line upon his legs.) In this majeftic and dignified attitude, he can change
his place, furvey this earth which he inhabits, and turn his eyes towards the vault
of heaven. By a noble and eafy gait, he preferves an equilibrium in the feveral
parts of his body, and tranfports himfelf from one place to another with different
degrees of celerity. To man alone nature has denied a covering; but Hill he is her
mafterpiece, the laft work which came from the hands of the Almighty Artift, the
fovereign and the chief of animals, a world in miniature, the centre w'hich conne6ts
the univerfe together. The form of his body, the organs whereof are conftrudled
in fuch a manner as to produce a much greater effedt than thofe of other animals,
announces his power. Every thing demonftrates the excellence of his nature, and
the im'menfe diftance placed by the bounty of the Creator between man and beaft.
Man is a reafonable being; brute animals are deprived of that noble faculty. The
weakeft and moft ftupid of the human race is able to manage the mod fagacious
quadruped; he commands it, and makes it fubfervient to his ufe. The operations
of brutes are purely the effe6l of mechanical impulfe, and continue always the fame;
human works are varied without end, and infinitely diverfified in the manner of
execution. The foul of man is free, independent, and immortal. He is fitted for
the ftudy of fcience, and the cultivation of art; he has the exclufive privilege of
examining every thing which has exiftence, and of holding communication with
his fellow-creatures by language, by particular motions of the body, and by
marks and chara6lers mutually agreed upon. Hence arifes that phyfical pre-emi-
nence which he enjoys over all animals; and hence that power which he poffeffes
over the elements, and (fo to fpeak) over nature itfelf. Man, therefore, is une-
qualled in his kind; but the individuals thereof differ greatly from one another in
figure, ftature, colour, manners, and difpofitions. The globe which man inha-
bits is covered with the produdlions of his induftry and the works of his hands
:
it is his labour, in fhort, which gives a value to the w'hole terreftrial mafs.
Nothing (fays M. Buffonj exhibits fuch a ftriking pifture of our vveaknefs as
the condition of an infant immediately after birth. Incapable of employing its
organs, it needs affiftance of every kind. In the firft moments of our exiflence,
we prefent an image of pain and mifery, and are more weak and helplefs than the
young of any other animal. At birth, the infant paffes from one element to
another: when it leaves the gentle warmth of the tranquil fluid by which it was
completely furrounded in the womb of the mother, it becomes expofed to the im-
preffions of the air, and inftantly feels the effedls of that adlive element. The air
afting upon the olfactory nerves, and upon the organs of refpiration, produces a
fhock
4
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 131
Ihock fomething like fiieezing, by which the breaft is expanded, and air is ad-
mitted into the lungs. In the mean time, the agitation of the diaphragm preffes
upon the vifcera of the abdomen, and the excrements are thus for the firfl time
difcharged from the inteftines, and the urine from the bladder. The air dilates
the veficles of the lungs, and, after being rarefied to a certain degree, is expelled
by the fpring of the dilated fibres re-a6ling upon this rarefied fluid. The infant
now refpires; and articulates founds, or cries. —Mofi: animals are blind for Lome
days after birth : infants open their eyes to the light the moment they come into
the world ;
but they are dull, fixed, and commonly blue. The new-born child
cannot diftinguifli objects, 'becaufe he is incapable of fixing_his eyes upon them.
The organ of vifion is yet imperfe6t ;
the cornea is wrinkled ;
and perhaps the
retina is too foft for receiving the images of external obje6ls, and for communicating
the fenfation of diftin6l vifion. At the end of forty days, the infant begins to hear
and to fmile. About the fame time it begins to look at bright objects, and fre-
quently to turn its eyes towards the window, a candle, or any light. Now like-
wife it begins to weep ;
for its former cries and groans were not accompanied with
tears. Smiles and tears are the eflfe6l of two internal fenfations, both of which de-
pend on the a6tion of the mind. Thus they are peculiar to the human race, and
ferve to exprefs mental pain or pleafure ;
while the cries, motions, and other marks
of bodily pain and pleafure, are common to man and moft of the other animals.
Confidering the fubjedf as metaphyficians, we ihall find that pain and pleafure are
the univerfal power which fets all our palfions in motion. -
The fize of an infant born at the full time is commonly twenty-one inches; and
that fxtuSy which nine months before was an imperceptible bubble, now weighs
ten or twelve pounds, and fometimes more. The head is large in proportion to
the body ;
and this difproportion, w'hich is ftill greater in the firft flage of the
foetus, continues during the period of infancy. The ikin of a new-born child is of
a reddifli colour, becaufe it is fo fine and tranfparent as to allow d flight tint of the
colour of the blood to fliine through. The form of the body and members is by
no means perfe6f in a child foon after birth ;
all the parts appear to be fwollen. At
the end of three days, a kind ofjaundice generally comes on, and at the fame time
milk is to be found in the breafts of the infant, which may be fqueezed out by the
fingers. The fwelling decreafes as the child grows up.
The liquor contained in the amnios leaves a vifcid whitifli matter upon the body
of the child. In this country we have the precaution to wafli the new-born infant
only ^with warm water; but it is the cuftom with whole nations, inhabiting the
coldefl climates, to plunge their infants into cold water as foon as they are born,
without their receiving the leafl: injury. It is even faid that the Laplanders leave
their
132 A KEY TO PHYSIC
their children in the fnow till the cold has almoft flopped their refpiration, and then
plunge them into a warm bath. Among thefe people, the children are alfo wafhed
thrice a-day during the firft year of their life. The inhabitants of northern coun-
tries are perfuaded that the cold bath tends to make men ftronger and more robuft,
and on that account accuftom their children to the ufe of it from their infancy.
The truth is, that we are totally ignorant of the power of habit, or how far it can
make our bodies capable of fuffering, of acquiring, or of lofing.
The child is not allowed to fuck as foon as it is born; but time is given for dif-
charging the liquor and (lime from the (lomach, and the meconium or excrement,
which is of a black colour, from the inteftines. As thefe fubflances might four the
milk, a little diluted wine mixed with fugar is fird given to the infant; and the
bread is not prefented to it before ten or twelve hours have elapfed.
The young of quadrupeds can of themfelves find the way to the teat of the mo-
ther: it is not fo with man; the mother, in order to fuckle her child, mud raife
it to her bread; and, at this feeble period of life, the infant can exprefs its wants
only by its cries.
New-born children have need of frequent nourilhment. During the day, the
bread ought to be given te them every two hours, and during the night as
often as they wake. At fird they deep almod continually ;
and they feem never
to wake but when prelTed by hunger or pain. Sleep is ufeful and refrediing to
them; and it fometimes becomes neceflfary to employ narcotic dofes, proportioned
to the age and conftitution of the child, for the purpofe of procuring them repofe*
The common way of appealing the cries of children is by rocking them in the
cradle; but this agitation (hould be very gentle, otherwife a great rifk is run of con-
fufing the infant’s brain, and of producing a total derangement. It is necelfary to
their being in good health, that their deep be long and natural. It is poffible, how-
ever, that they may deep too much, and thereby endanger their conditution. In
that cafe, it would be proper to take them out of the cradle, and awaken them by a
gentle motion, or by prefenting fome bright obje6l to their eyes. At this age we
receive the fird imprelTions from the fenfes, which, without doubt, are more im-
portant during the red of life than is generally imagined. Great care ought to be
taken to place the cradle in fuch a manner that the child IhalL'be diredly oppofite
to the light : for the eyes are always directed towards that part of the room where
the light is ftronged: and, if the cradle be placed fideways, one of them, by turn-
ing towards the light, will acquire greater ftrength than the other, and the child
will fquint. For the two fird months, no other food diould be given to the child,
but the milk of the nurfe; and, when it is of a weak and delicate conditution, this
nourilhment alone Ihould be continued during the third or fourth month. A child,.
however
133
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES.
however robuft and healthful, may be expofed to great danger and inconvenience,
if any other aliment is adminiftered before the end of the firft month. In Holland,
Italy, Turkey, and the whole Levant, the food of children is limited to the milk of
the nurfe for a whole vear. The favages of Canada give their children fuck for
four, five, and fometimes even feven, years. In this country, as nurfes generally
have not a fufficient quantity of milk to fatisfy the appetite of their children, they
commonly fupply the want of it by panada, or other light preparations.
The teeth ufually begin to appear about the age of feven months. The cutting
of thefe, although a natural operation, does not follow the common laws of nature,
which a6l continually on the human body without occaiioning the finalleft pain*
or even producing any fenfation. Here a violent and painful effort is made, accom-
panied with cries and tears. Children at firft lofe their fprightlinefs and gaiety;,
they become fad, reftlefs, and fretful. The gums are red, and fwelled; but they
afterwards become white, when the prelTure of the teeth is fo great as to ftop the
circulation of the blood. Children apply their fingers to their mouth, that they may
remove the irritation which they feel there. Some relief is given, by putting into
their hands a bit of ivory or of coral, or of fome other hard and fmooth body,
with which they rub the gums at the affected part. This prelTure, being oppofed
to that of the teeth, calms the pain for a moment, contributes to make the mem-
brane of the gum thinner, and facilitates its rupture. Nature here a6ts in oppo-
fition to herfelf; and an incifion of the gum muft fometimes take place, to allow
a paffage to the tooth.
When children are allowed to cry too long and too often, ruptures are fometimes
occafioned by the efforts they make. Thefe may eafily be cured by the fpeedy ap-
plication of bandages; but, if this remedy has been too long delayed, the difeafe
may continue through life. Children are very much fubjeft to worms. Some of
the bad effe6ls occafioned by thefe animals might be prevented by giving them a
little wine now and then, for fermented liquors have a tendency to prevent their
generation.
Though the body is very delicate in the ftate of infancy, it is then lefs fenfible of
cold than at any other part of life. The internal heat appears to be greater : the
pulfe in children is much greater than in adults from which we are certainly inti-
tled to infer, that the internal heat is greater in the fame proportion. For the fame
reafon, it is evident that fmall animals have more heat than large ones; for
the beating of the heart and of the arteries is always quicker in proportion to the
fmallnefs of the animal. The ftrokes of the heart in a fparrow fucceed one another
fo rapidly, that they can fcarcely be counted.
No. 9.. "
M m Till
134 A KEY TO PHYSIC
Till three years of age, the life of a child is Very precarious. In the two or three
following years, it becomes more certain ;
and at fix or feven years of age, a child
has a better chance of living than at any other period of life. From the bills of
mortality publiflied in London, it appears, that, of a certain number of children born
at the fame time, one half of them die the three firft years: according to
which, one half of the human race are cut off before they are three years of age.
But the mortality among children is not near fo great every-where as in London.
M. Dupr6 de Saint Maur, from a great number of obfervations made in France, has
fhown that half of the children born at the fame time are not extinQ; till feven or
eight years hav.e elapfed.
The period of infancy is followed by that of adolefcence. This begins, together
with puberty, at the age of twelve or fourteen, and commonly ends in girls at lix-
teenj and in boys at eighteen, but fometimes not till twenty-one, twenty-three,
or twenty-five, years of age. According to its etymology (being derived ftom
the Latin word adolefcentia,') it is completed when the body has attained its full
height. Thus, puberty accompanies adolefcence, and precedes youth. This is
the fpring of life; this is the feafon of pleafures, of loves, and of graces; but
alas ! this fmiling feafon is of fhort duration. Hitherto nature feems to have had
nothing in view but the prefervation and increafe of her work : the has made no
provifion for the infant except what is neceffary to its life and growth. It has lived,
or rather enjoyed a kind of vegetable exiftence, which was lliut up within itfelf, and
which it was incapable of communicating. In this firft ftage of life, reafon
is ftill afleep: but the principles of life foon multiply; and man has not only what
is neceffary to his own exiftence, but what enables him to give exiftence to others.
This redundancy of life, this fource of health and vigour, can no longer be con-
fined, but endeavours to diffufe and expand itfelf.
The age of puberty is announced by feveral marks. The firft fymptom is a kind
of numbnefs and ftiffnefs in the groins, acconipanied with a new and peculiar fenfa-
tion in thofe parts which diftiiiguifti the fexes. There, as well as in the arm- pits,
fmall protuberances of a whitifh colour appear, w hich are the germs of a new pro-
dudlion, of a kind of hair by which thefe parts are afterwards to be veiled. The
voice, for a confiderable time, is rough and unequal; after which it becomes ful-
ler, ftronger, and graver, than it was before. This change may eafily be diftin-
guiflied in boys ; but lefs fo in girls, becaufe their voices are naturally fiiarper.
Thefe marks of puberty are common to both fexes: but there are marks peculiar
to each, fuch as the difcharge of the menfes and growth of the breafts, in girls;
the beard, and the emiffion of femen, in boys : in fhort, the feeling of venereal
defire, and the appetite which unites the fexes. Among all races of mankind, the
females
135
i.
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES.
females arrive at puberty fooner than the males ;
but the age of puberty is different
in different nations, and feems partly to depend on the temperature of the climate
and the quality of the food. In all the fouthern countries of Europe, and in cities,
the greatefl part of girls arrive at puberty about twelve, and boys about fourteen,
years of age. But in the northern parts, and in the country, girls fcarcely arrive
at puberty till they are fourteen or fifteen, and boys not till they are fixteen or
feventeen. In our climate, girls, for the greateft part, have attained complete
maturity at eighteen, and boys at twenty, years of age.
At the age of adolefcence, and of puberty, the body commonly attains its full
height. About that time, young people fhoot out feveral inches almoft at once.
But there is no part of the human body which increafes more quickly and more
perceptibly than the organs of generation in both fexes. In males, this growth is
nothing but an unfolding of the parts, an augmentation in fize ;
but in females, it
often occafions a flirinking and contradtion, which have received different names
from thofe who have treated of the figns of virginity.
Marriage is a ftate fuitable to man, wherein he mull make ufe of thofe new fa-
culties which he has acquired by puberty. At this period of life, the defire of pro-
ducing a being like himfelf is ftrongly felt. The external form and the correfpon-
dence of the organs of fex occafion without doubt that irrefillible attradlion which
unites the fexes and perpetuates the race. By connedling pleafure with the pro-
pagation of the fpecies, nature has provided moft effedlually for the continuance
of her work. Increqfe and multiply is the exprefs command of the Creator, and
one of the natural fundlions of life. We may add, that at the age of puberty a
thoufand impreffions a6l upon the nervous fyllem, and reduce man to fuch a fitua-
tion, that he feels his exiftence only in that voluptuous fenfe, which then appears to
become the feat of his foul, which engroffes the whole fenfibility of which he is
fufceptible, and which at length proceeds to fuch a height, that its attacks cannot
long be fupported without a general derangement of the whole machine. The
continuance of fuch a feeling may fometimes indeed prove fatal to thofe who in-
dulge in exceffive enjoyment ;
but it is equally dangerous to thofe who obflinately
perfift in celibacy, efpecially when ftrongly folicited by nature to the contrary.
The femen, being too long confined in the feminal veffels, may, by its ftimulant
property, occafion difeafes in both fexes, and excite irritations fo violent as to
reduce man to a level with the brutes, which, when afted upon by fuch impref-
fions, are perfe6tly furious and ungovernable. When this irritation proceeds to
extremity, it produces what is called the furor uterinus in women. The oppofite
habit, however, is infinitely more commoil, efpecially in the temperate, and above
all in the frozen, zones. After all, excels is much more to be drqaded than conti-
nency.
1S5 A KEY TO PHYSIC
neficy. The number of diffolute and intemperate men afford us plenty of examples.
Some have loft their memory, fome have been deprived of fight, many have become
early bald, and forae have died, through mere weaknefs. In fuch a cafe, bleeding
is well known to be fatal. Young men cannot be too often warned of the irrepara-
ble injury they may do to their health ;
and parents, to whofe care they are en-
trufted, ought to employ all the means in their power to turn them from fuch dan-
gerous exceffes. But at the age of puberty, young men know not of how great
importance it is to prolong this finding feafon of their days, whereon the happinefs
or mifery of their future life fo much depends. Then they look not forward to fu-
turity, nor refle6l on what is paft, nor enjoy prefent pleafures with moderation.
How many ceafe to be men, or at leaft to have the faculties of men, before the age
of thirty? Nature muft not be forced : like a true mother, her 6bje6l is the fober
and difcreet union of the fexes. It is fufficient to obey when fhe commands, and
to anfwer when fhe calls. Neither mufl we forget here to mention and condemn an
outrage committed againft nature, the fhameful pradfice of which endangers the
lofs of health, and the total ruin of the conftitution ;
I mean that folitary liberti-
nifm, fo extenfively explained in the Medical Part of my edition of Culpeper, by
which a man or woman, deceiving nature as it were, endeavours to procure thofe
enjoyments which religion has forbidden except when connedled with the happinefs
of being a parent. Such then is the phyfical order which the Author of Nature, the
great preferver of the fpecies as well as the individual, has appointed to induce
man, by the attradlion of pleafure, to propagate and continue his race.
According to the ordinary courfe of nature, women are not fit for conception
till after the firft appearance of the menfes. When thefe ftop, which generally
happens about forty or fifty years of age, they are barren ever after. Their
breafts then fhrink and decay, and the voice becomes feebler. Some, however,
have become mothers before they have experienced any menftrual difcharge;
and others have conceived at the age of fixty, and fometimes at a more ad-
vanced age. Such examples, though not unfrequent, muft be confidered as
exceptions to the general rule ; but they are fufficient to ihow that the menftrual
difcharge is not abfolutely effential to generation. The age at which man ac-
quires the faculty of procreating is not fo diftindlly marked. In order to
the produ6lion of fernen, the body muft have attained a certain growth,
which generally happens between twelve and eighteen years of age. At fixty
or feventy, when the body begins to be enervated by old age, the voice be-
eomes weaker, the femen is fecreted in fmaller quantities, and it is often un-
prolific. There are inftances, however, of old men who have procreated at the
age of eighty or ninety. Boys have. been found>^who had the faculty of- generating
at
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 137
•at nine, ten, or eleven, years of age; and young girls who have become pregnant at
the age of feven, eight, or nine. But fuch fa6ls, which are very rare, ought to be
confidered as extraordinary phaenomena in the courfe of nature.
At the age of puberty, or a few years after, the body attains its full ftature.
Some young men grow no taller after fifteen or fixteen, and others continue to grow
till the age of twenty or twenty-three. At this period they are very flender; but by
degrees the members fwell and begin to affume their proper fliape; and, before the
age of thirty, the body in men has attained its greatefi: perfection with regard to
ftrength, confiftence, and fymmetry Adolefcence ends at the age of twenty or
twenty-five; and at this period youth (according to the divifion which has been
made of the years of man’s life into different ages) begins. It continues till the
age of thirty or thirty-five.
The common ftature of man is about five feet and three, four, five, fix, or feven,
inches.; and of women about five feet and two, three, and four, inches. Men be-
low five feet are of a fmall ftature. The Laplanders do not exceed four feet and
a half; and the natives of fome other countries are ftill fmaller. Women attain
their full height fooner than men. Haller computes, that, in the temperate climate*
of Europe, the medium ftature of men is about five feet and five or fix inches. It
is obferved by the fame author, that inSwifferland the inhabitants of the plains are
taller than thofe of the mountains. It is difficult to afcertain with precifion the
aClual limits of the human ftature. In furveying the inhabited earth, we find
greater differences in the ftatures of individuals than in thofe of nations. In the
fame climate, among the fame people, and fometimes in the fame family, there are
men whofe ftature is^either too tall or too diminutive.—The body, having acquired
its full height during the period of adolefcence, and its full dimenfions in youth,
remains for fome years in the fame ftate before it begins to decay. This is the pe-
riod of manhood, which extends from the age of thirty or thirty-five to that of
forty or forty-five years. During this ftage, the powers of the body continue in
full vigour, and the principal change which takes place in the human figure arifes
from the formation of fat in different parts. Exceftive fatnefs disfigures the body,
and becomes a very cumberfome and inconvenient load.
The body of a well-fliaped man ought to be fquare, the mufcles ought to be
ftrongly marked, the contour of the members boldly delineated, and the features
of the face well defined. In women, all the parts are more rounded and fofter, the
features are more delicate, and the complexion brighter. To man belong ftrength
and majefty ;
gracefulnefs and beauty are the portion of the other fex. —-Every
thing in both fexes points them out as the fovercigns of the earth; even the exter-
nal appearance of man declares his fuperiority to other living creatures. His body
No. 9. N n is
138 A KEY TO PHYSIC
is ereft; his attitude is that of command; his auguft countenance, which is turned'
towards heaven, bears the impreffion of his dignity. The image of his foul is
painted in his face; theexcellence of his nature pierces through the material organs,
and gives a fire and animation to the features of his countenance. His majeftic de-
portment, his firm and emboldened gait, announce the noblenefs of his rank. He
touches the eartli only with his extremity; he views it only at a diftance, and feem&
to defpife it. It has been juftly obferved, that the countenance of man is the mir-
ror of his mind. In the looks of no animal are the expreffions of paffion painted
with fuch energy and rapidity, and with fuch gentle gradations and fhades, as in
thofe of man. We know, that in certain emotions of the mind, the blood rifes to
the face, and produces blufliing; and that in others the countenance turns pale.
Thefe two fymptorns, the appearance of which depends on the flru6lure andtranf-
parency of the reticulum, efpecially rednefs, conftitute a peculiar beauty. In our
climates, the natural colour of the face of a man in good health is white, with a
lively red fuffufed upon the cheeks. Palenefs of the countenance is always a fuf-
picious fymptom. That colour which is fliaded with black is a fign of melancholy
and of vitiated bile; and conftant and univerfal rednefs is a proof that the blood is
carried with too great irnpetuofity to the brain. A livid colour is a morbid and dan-
gerous fymptom; and that which has a tint of yellow is a fign of jaundice or re-
pletion of bile. The colour of the fkin is frequently altered by want of fleep or of
nourifliment, or by loofenefs and diarrhoea.
Notwithftanding the general fimilitude of countenance in nations and families,
there is a wonderful diverfity of features. No one, however, is at a lofs to recol-
le61; the perfon to whom he intends to fpeak, provided he has once fully feen him.
One man has livelinefs and gaiety painted in his countenance, and announces be-"
forehand, by the cheerfulnefs of his appearance, the character which he is to fup-
port in fociety. The tears which bedew the cheeks of another man would excite
compaffion in the moft unfeeling heart. Thus the face of man is the rendezvous of
the fymptorns both of his moral and phyfical affe6lions; tranquillity, anger, threat-
ening, joy, frniles, laughter, malice, love, envy, jealoufy, pride, contempt, difdain
or indignation, irony, arrogance, tears, terror, aftonilhment, horror, fear, fliame or
humiliation, forrow and afflidion, compaffion, meditation, particular convulfions,
deep, death, &c. &c. The difference of thefe eharadters is of fufficient importance
to form a principal article in the natural hiftory of man.
When the mind is at eafe, all the features of the face are in a date of profound
tranquillity. Their proportion, harmony, and union, point out the ferenity of the
thoughts. But, when the foul is agitated, the human face becomes a living canvafs,
whereon the paffions are reprefented with equal delicacy and energy, where, every
T" , emotion
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 139
emotion of the foul is expreffed by fome feature, and every a6lion by fome mark;
the lively impreffion of which anticipates the will, and reveals by pathetic figns our
fecret agitation, and thofe intentions which we are anxious to conceal. It is
particularly in the eyes that the foul is painted in the ftrongeft colours and with the
moft delicate fhades.
The different colours of the eyes are, dark hazel, light hazel, green, blue, grey,
and w'hitifh-grey. The moft common of thefe colours are hazel and blue, both
of which are often found in the fame eye. Eyes which are commonly called black
are only dark hazel ;
they appear black in confequence of being contrafted with
the white of the eye. Wherever there is a tint of blue, however flight, it becomes
the prevailing colour, and outfliines the hazel, with which it is intermixed, to fuch
a degree, that the mixture cannot be perceived without a very narrow examination.
The moft beautiful eyes are thofe which appear black or blue. In the former, there
is more expreflion and vivacity; in the latter, more fweetnefs and perhaps delicacy.
Next tb the eyes, the parts of the face by which the phyfiognomy is moft ftrongly
marked are the eye-brows. Being of a different nature from the other parts, their
effedl is increafed by contraft. They are like a fliade in a pidlure, which gives relief
to the other colours and forms.
The forehead is one of the largeft parts of the face, and contributes moft to its
beauty. Every body knows of how great importance the hair is in the phyfiognomy,
and that baldnefs is a very great defedl. When old age begins to make its ap-
proaches, the hair which firft falls off is that which covers the crown of the head
and the parts above the temples. We feldom fee the hair of the lower part of the
temples, or of the back of the head, completely fall of. Baldnefs is peculiar to
men; women do not naturally lofe their hair, though it becomes white, as w^ell as
that of men, at the approach of old age.
The nofe is the moft prominent feature of the face; but, as it has very little mo-
tion, and that only in the moft violent paflions, it contributes lefs to the expreflion
than to the beauty of the countenance. The nofe is feldom perpendicular to the
middle of the face, but for the moft part is turned to one fide or the other. The
caufe of this irregularity, which, according to the painters, is perfedtly confiftent
with beauty, and of whicfi even the want would be a deformity, appears to be fre-
quent preflure on one fide of the cartilage of the child’s nofe againft the breaft of
the mother when it receives fuck. At this early period of life, the cartilages and
bones have acquired very little folidity, and are eafily bent, as may be obferved in
the legs and thighs of fome individuals, who have been injured by the bandages of
the fwaddling clothes.
Next
145 A KEY TO PHYSIC
Next to the eyes, the mouth and lips have the greateft motion and expreflion.
Thefe motions are under the influence of the palTions. The mouth, which is fet
off by the vermilion of the lips and the enamel of the teeth, marks, by the various
forms which it affumes, their different charadters. The organ of the voice like-
wife gives animation to this feature, and communicates to it more life and expref-
fion than is poffeffed by any of the reft. The cheeks are uniform f eatures,^ and
, have no motion or expreffion excepting from that involuntary rednefs or palenefs
with w'hich they are covered in different paflions ;
fuch as ftiame, anger, pride, and
joy, on the one hand; and fear, terror, and forrow, on the other.
In different paffions, the whole head affumes different pofitions, and is affe6ted
with different motions. It hangs forward during ftiame, humility, and forrow
;
it inclines to one fide in languor and compaffion ;
it is elevated in pride; ere6l and
fixed in obftinacy and felf-conceit; in aftoniftiment it is thrown backwards; and it
moves from fide to fide in contempt, ridicule, anger, and indignation.—In grief,
joy, love, ftiame, and compaffion, the eyes fwell and the tears flow. The effufion
of tears is always accompanied with an extenfion of the naufcles of the face, which
opens the mouth.—In forrow, the corners of the mouth are depreffed, the under
lip rifes, the eye-lids fall down, the pupil of the eye is raifed and half concealed by
the eye-lid. The other mufcles of the face are relaxed, fo that the diftance be-
tween the eyes and the mouth is greater than ordinary ;
and confequently the
countenance appears to be lengthened. —In fear, terror, confternation, and horror,
the forehead is wrinkled, the eye-brows are raifed, the eye-lids are opened as wide
as poffible, the upper lid uncovers a part of the white above the pupil, which is
depreffed and partly concealed by the under lid. At the fame time, the mouth
opens wide, the lips recede from each other, and difcover the teeth both above and
ijelow.—In contempt and derifion, the upper lip is raifed at one fide and expofes
the teeth, while the other fide of the lip moves a little, and wears the appearance of
a fmile. The noftril on the elevated fide of the lip ftirivels up, and the corner of
the mouth fails down. The eye on the fame fide is almoft thut, while the other is
open as ufual; but the pupils of both are depreffed, as when one looks down from
a height. —In jealoufy, envy, and malice, the eye-brows fall down and are wrinkled;
the eye-lids are elevated, and the pupils are d'eprefled. The upper lip is elevated
on both fides, while the corners of the mouth are a little depreffed, and the under
lip rifes to join the middle of the upper.-—In laughter, the corners of the mouth
are drawn, back and a little elevated; the upper part of the cheeks rife; the eyes
are more or lefs clofed; the upper lip rifes, and the under one falls down; the
mouth opens; and, in cafes of immoderate laugiiter, the fkin of the noTe wrinkles.
That gentler and more gracious kind of laughter which is called fmiling, is feated
wholly
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 141
wholly in the parts of the mouth. The under lip rifes; the angles of the mouth
are drawn back; the cheeks are puffed up; the eye-lids approach one another;
and a fmall twinkling is obferved in the eyes. It is very extraordinary, that
laughter may be excited either by a moral caufe withq,ut the immediate a6lion of
external objects, or by a particular irritation of the nerves without any feeling of
joy. Thus an involuntary laugh is excited by a flight tickling of the lips, of the
palm of the haod, of the foie of the foot, of the arm-pits, and below the middle
of the ribs. We laugh when two diffimilar ideas, the union of which was un-
expefted, are pre fented to the mind at the fame time; and when one or both of
thefe ideas, or their union, include fome abfurdity which excites an emotion of
difdain mingled with joy. In general, ftriking contrails never fail to produce
laughter.—-A change is produced in the features of the countenance by weeping
as well as by laughing. When we weep, the under lip is feparated from the
teeth, the forehead is wrinkled, the eye-brows are depreffed, the dimple, which
gives a gracefulnefs to laughter, forfakes the cheek ;
the eyes are more compreffed,
and almoll conllantly bathed in tears, which in laughter flow more feldom and lefs
copioufly.
The arms, hands, and every part of the body, contribute to the expreflion of
the paffions. In joy, for inllance, all the members of the body are agitated with
quick and various motions. In languor and forrow, the arms hang down, and
the whole body remains fixed and immoveable. In admiration and furprife, this
total fufpenfion of motion is likewife obferved. In love, defire, a,nd hope, the
head and eyes are railed to heaven, and feem to folicit the wiflied-for good ; the
body leans forward, as if to approach it; the arms are ftretched out, and feem to ,
feize beforehand the beloved obje6l. On the contrary, in fear, hatred, and horror,
the arms feem to pulh backward and repel the objedl of our averfion ;
we turn
away our head and eyes as if to avoid the fight of it; we recoil in order to Ihun it.
Although the human body is externally much more delicate than that of any
other animal, yet it is very nervous, and perhaps flronger in proportion to its fize
than that of the ftrongell animals. We are affured that the porters at Conllantinople
carry burdens of. nine hundred pounds weight, yet drink nothing but water. A
thoufand wonderful ftories are related of the Hottentots and other favages, concern-
ing their agility in running. Civilized man knows not the full extent of his powers,
nor how much he lofes by that effeminacy and ina6livity by which they are weakened
and deftroyed. He is contented even to be ignorant of the flrength and vigour
which his members are capable of acquiring by motion, and by being accuftomed
to fevere exercifes, as is obferved in runners, tumblers, and rope-dancers. The eon-
dufion is, therefore, founded on the mofi; juft and indifputableiindudion and;
No.. 10. Oo analogy,.
14^ A KEY TO PHYSIC
analogy.—The attitude of walking is lefs fatiguing to man than that in which he is
placed when he is flopped in running. Every time he fets his foot upon the ground,
he paffes over a more confiderable fpace; the body leans forward, and the arms fol-
low the fame diredlion; the refpiration increafes, and breathing becomes difficult
Leaping begins with great inflexions of the members; the body is then much
fliortened, but immediately flretches itfelf out with a great effort. The motions
which accompany leaping make it very fatiguing.
It is obferved that a celfation from exercife is not alone fufficient to reftore the
powers of the body when they are exhaufted by fatigue. The fprings, though not
in a6iion, are Itill wound up while we are awake, even when every movement is
fufpended. In Jleep nature finds that repofe which is fuited to her wants; and the
different organs enjoy a falutary relaxation. This is that wonderful ftate in which
man, unconfcious of his own exiffence, and funk in apparent death, repairs -the
lofs w'hich his faculties have fuffained, and feems to affume a new exiffence. In this
ffateof drowfinefs and repofe, thefenfes ceafe to a6l, the functions of the body are
fufpended, and it feems abandoned to itfelf. The external fymptoms of fleep, which
alone are the obJe6ls of our attention, are eafily diffinguiflied. At the approach of
fleep, the eyes begin to w'ink, the eye-lids fall down, the head nods and hangs
down: its fall affonifhes the fleeper; he ffarts up, and makes an effort to drive
away fleep, but in vain; a new inclination, ffronger than the former, deprives him
of the power of raifing his head ;
his chin reffs upon his breaff, and in this pofition
he enjoys a tranquil fleep.
The age of decline extends from forty or forty-five to fixty or fixty-five years of
age. At this time of life, the diminution of the fat is the caufe of thofe wrinkles
which begin to appear in the face and fome other parts of the body. The fkin, not
being fupported by the fame quantity of fat, and being incapable, from want of
elafficity, of contracting, finks down and forms folds. In the decline of life, a
remarkable change takes place alfo in vifion. In the vigour of our days, the cryf-
talline lens, being thicker and more diaphanous than the humours of the eye, enables
us to read letters of a fmall character at the diffance of eight or ten inches.
But, when the age of decline comes on, the quantity of the humours of the eye di-
miniflies, they lofe their clearnefs, and the tranfparent cornea becomes lefs convex.
To remedy this inconvenience, we place what we wifh to read at a greater diffance
from the eye: but vifion is thereby very little improved, becaufe the image of the
objeCl becomes fmaller and more obfcure. Another mark of the decline of life is a
weaknefs of the ffomach, and indigeffion, in moff people who do not take fufficient
exercife in proportion to the quantity and the quality of their food.—At fixty,
fixty-three, or fixty-five, years of age, the figns of decline become more and more
2 vifible,
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 143
vifible, and indicate old age. This period commonly extends to the age of feventy,
fometimes to feventy-five, but feldom to eighty. When the body is extenuated
and bent by old age, man then becomes crazy. Crazinefs therefore is nothing but
an infirm old age. The eyes and flomach then become weaker and breaker; leannefs
increafes the number of the wrinkles; the beard and the hair become white; the
ftrength and the memory begin to fail.—After feventy, or at moft eighty years of
age, the life of man is nothing but labour and forrow : fuch was the language of
David near three thoufand years ago. Some men of ftrong conftitutions, and in
good health, enjoy old age for a long time without decrepitude; but fuch inftances
are not very common. The infirmities of decrepitude continually increafe, arid at
length death concludes the whole. This fatal term is uncertain. The only con.
clufions which we can form concerning the duration of life, mufi: be derived from
obfervations made on a great number of men who were born at the fame time, and
who died at different ages.
The figns of decrepitude form a ftriking pidure cf weaknefs, and announce the
approaching diffolution of the body. The memory totally fails; the nerves be-
come hard and blunted; deafnefs and blindnefs take place; the fenfes of fmell, of
touch, and of tafte, are deftroyed; the appetite fails; the neceflity of eating, and
more frequently thaf^of drinking, are alone felt ;
after the teeth fall out, maftica-
tion is imperfeftly performed, and digeflion is very bad ;. the lips fall inwards
;
the edges of the jaws can no longer approach one another ;
the mufcles of the
lower jaw become fo weak, that they are unable to raife and fupport it; the body
finks down; the fpine is bent outward; and the vertebras grow together at the
anterior part ;
the body becomes extremely lean : the ftrength fails ; the decrepid
wretch is unable to fupport himfelf; he is obliged to remain on a feat, or flretched
in his bed : the bladder becomes paralytic ; the inteftines lofe their fpring ;
the
circulation of the blood becomes flower; the ftrokes of the pulfe no longer amount
to the number of eighty in a minute, as in the vigour of life, but are reduced to
twenty-four, and fometimes fewer: refpiration is flower; the body lofes its heat;
the circulation of the blood ceafes; death follows; and the dream of life is no
more.
Man, however, has no right to complain of the fliortnefs of life. Throughout
the whole of living beings, there are few who unite in a greater degree all the in-
ternal canfes which tend to prolong its different periods. The term of geflation is
very confiderable ;
the rudiments of the teeth are very late in unfolding; his
growth is flow, and is not completed before about twenty years have elapfed.—The
age of puberty, alfo, is much later in man than in any other animal. In fhort, the
parts of his body, being compofed of a fofter and more flexible fubftanee, are not
fo
144 A KEY TO PHYSIC
fo foon hardened as thofe of inferior animals. Man, therefore, feems to receive:
at his birth the feeds of a long life: if he reaches not the diftant period M'hich na-
ture feemed to promife him, it muft be owing to accidental or acquired caufes, fo-
reign to hiinfelf. Inftead of faying that he has finitlied his life, we ought rather to
fay that he has not completed it. —The natural and total duration of life is in fome
ineafure proportioned to the period of growth. A tree or an animal, which foon
acquires its full fize, decays much fooner than another which continues to grow for
a longer time. If it be true that the life of animals is eight times longer than the
period of their growth, we might conclude that the boundaries of human life may
be extended to a century and a half
It does not appear that the life of man becomes iliorter in proportion to the length
of time the world has exifted. In tlie days of the Pfalmift, the ordinary limits of
human life did not exceed feventy or eighty years. No king of Judah lived be-
yond that period. When the Romans, however, were numbered by Yefpafian,
there were found in the empire, in that age of effeminacy, ten men aged an hun-
dred and twenty and upw'ards. Among the princes of modern times, Frederic
the Great of Pruffia lived to the age of 74. George II. of Britain lived to that
of 77. Louis XIV. lived to the fame age. Staniflaus King of Poland and Duke
of Lorrain exceeded that age. Pope Clement XII. lived to the age of 80. George
I^of Britain attained the age of 83. William Lecomte, a fhe})herd, died fuddenly
in 177(1, in the county of Caux in Normandy, at the age of 110. Cramers, phy-
fician to til e emperor, faw at Temefwar two brothers, the one aged 110 and the-
other 1 12, both of whom were fathers at that age. Saint Paul the hermit was 1 1.3'
at his death. The Sieur Ifwan-Horwaths, knight of the order of St. Louis, died
at Sar-Albe in Lorraine, in 1775, aged almoft 111; he w'as a great hunter; he
undertook a long journey a fhort time before his death, and performed it on horfe-
back. Rofine Iwiwaroufka died at Minfk in Lithuania at the age of 1 13. Fockjek
Johannes died at Oldeborn in Friefland, aged 1 1
3 years and 16 days. Marfk Jones
died in the year 1775 at Villejac in Hungary, aged 1 IR. John Niethen of Bakler
in Zealand lived to the age of 120. Eleonora Spicer died in 1773, at Accomack in-
Virginia, aged 121. John Argus was born in the village of Laflua in Turkey,
and died the 6th of March 1779, at the age of 123; having fix fons and three
daughters, by whom he had pofterity to the fifth generation ;
they amounted to-
the number of 160 fouls, and all lived in the fame village: his father died at the
age of 120. In December 1777, there lived in Devonlhire a farmer named John
Brookey, who was 134 years of age, and had been fifteen times married. The Phi-
lofophical Tranfadtions mention an Englilhman, of the name of Ecclefton, who lived
to the age of 1 43. Another Englifiiman, of the name of Effingham, died in 1 757, at
the
145
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES.
the age of 144. Niels Jukens, of Hammerfet in Denmark, died in 1764, aged 146.
Chriftian Jacob Drakemberg died in 1770 at Archufen, in the !46th year of his
ager this old man of the north was born at Stavangar in Norway in 1624, and at
the age of 130 married a widow of 60. In Norway fome men have lived to the age
of 150. John Rovin, who was born at Szatlova-Carantz-Betcher, in the bannat
of Temefwar, lived to the age of 172, and his wife to that of 164, having been
married to him during the fpace of 147 years: when Rovin died, their youngeft
fon was 99 years of age. Peter Zoten, a peafant, and a countryman of John Rovin,
died in 1724, at the age of 185 : his youngeft fon was then 97 years of age. The
hiftory and whole-length pidtures of John Rovin, Henry Jenkins, and Peter
Zoten, are to be feen in the library of H. R. H. Prince Charles at Bruflels. Ha-
novins, profeffor at Dantzic, mentions in hi^ Nomenclature an old man who died
at the* age of 184; and another ftill alive in Wallachia, whole age, according to
this author, amounted to 186. Thomas Parr, of Shropfliire, died November 16,
1635, aged 152. Henry Jenkins, of Yorkfliire, died December 8, 1670, aged
169. Robert Montgomery, of Yorkfliire, died in 1670, aged 196. James Sands,
of Staffordfliire, aged 140, and his wife, 120. The Countefs of Defmond, of Ire-
land, aged 140. J. Sagar, of Lancafliire, died in 1668, aged 112. —— Laurence,
of Scotland, aged 140. Simon Sack, ofTrionia, died May 30, 1764, aged 141.
“
Col. Thomas Window, of Ireland, died Auguft 26, 1766, aged 146. Francis
Confift, of Yorkfliire, died in January 1768, aged 150. Margaret Forfter,
aged 136, and her daughter, aged 104, of Cumberland, were both living in
1771. Francis Eons, of France, died Feb. 6, 1769, aged 121. James Bowels,
-of Killingworth, aged 152. John Tice, of Worcefterfliire, died March 1774,
'
aged '125. John Mount, of Scotland, died Feb. 27, 1766, aged 136. A. Gold-
fmith, of France, died in June 1776, aged 140. Mary Yates, of Shropfliire, died
in 1776, aged 128. John Bales, of Northampton, died April 5, 1766, aged 126.
William Ellis, of Liverpool, died Auguft 16, 1780, aged 130. Louifa Truxo, *
a negrefs of Tucomea, South America, was living Oaober 5, 1780, aged- 175.
Margaret Patten, of Lockneugh near Paifley, aged 138. Janet Taylor, of Fin-
tray, Scotland, died Odtober 10, 1780, aged 108. Richard Lloyd, ofMontgo-
mery, aged 133. Sufannah Hilliar, of Piddington, Northamptonfliire, died Feb.
19, 1781, aged 110. Ann Cockbolt, of Stoke-Bruerne, Northamptonfliire, died
April 5, 1775, aged 105. James Ayley, of Middlewich, Chefliire, died March
17, 1781, aged 112. William Walker, who was a foldier at the battle of Edge-
hill, lived to the age of 112. Hippocrates, phyfician, of the ifland of Cos, aged 104.
Democritus, philofopher, of Abdera, aged 109. Galen, phyfician, of Pergamus, aged
140. Albuna Marc, of Ethiopia, aged 150. Dumitur Raduly, of Haromfzeck,
P p Tranfylvania,
146 A KEY TO PHYSIC
Tranfylvania, died Jan. 12, 1782, aged 140. Titus Fullonius, of Bononia, aged
150, Abraham Paiba, of Charleftown, South Carolina, aged 142. L. Tertulia,
of Arminium, aged 137. Lewis Cornaro, of Venice, aged 100. Robert Blake-
ney, Efq. of Armagh, Ireland, aged 114. Margaret Scott, of Dalkeith, Scotland,
aged 125. W. Gulftone, of Ireland, aged 140. J. Bright, of Ludlow, aged 105.
William Poflell, of P’rance, aged 120. Jane Reeves, of Effex, aged 103. W.
Paulet, Marquis of Winchefter, of Hamplliire, aged 106. John Wilfon, of Suf-
folk, aged 116,, Patrick Wian, of Le(bury, Northumberland, aged 115. M,
I.,aurence of Arcades, aged 140. Evan Williams, of Caermarthen workdioufe,,
was alive in Odfober 1782, aged 145. John Jacobs, of Mount Jura, aged 12L
This man, in 1789, at the age of 120, quitted his native hills, and from the
fummit of Mount Jura undertook a journey to Verfailles, to behold and return
thanks to the national affembly for the vote which had freed him and his poor
countrymen from the feudal yoke. In the early part of his life, he was a fervant
in the family of the Prince de Beaufremont. His memory continued good to the
lall dav of his life ;
and the principal inconveniences which he felt from his great
age were, that his fight was weakened, and the natural heat of his body was fo
diminilhed, that he fhivered wdth cold in the middle of the dog-days if he was
not fitting by a good fire. This old man was received in the body of the houfe
by the national affembly, indulged with a chair, and diredfed to keep on his hat
left he ftiould catch cold if he were to fit uncovered. A colledtion was made for
him by the members, which exceeded 5001. fterling; but he lived not to return to
Mount Jura. He was buried on Saturday the 31ft of January 1790, with great
funeral pomp, in the parifh-church of St. Euftace, at Paris. Mathew Tait, of
Auchinleck, Airlhire, died Feb. 19, 1792, aged 12.3: he ferved as a private at
the taking of Gibraltar in 1704. Donald Macleod, of the Ifle of Sky, w'as living
in May 1793, aged 105. There was living in Portfmouth poor-houfe, in May
*
1793, one Elizabeth Bennett, aged 104 years.
Before we proceed to aftign the common caufes of longevity, it is proper to iii-
(juire into the manner of life and the fituation of thofe by whom it has been enjoyed.
We find, then, that thofe who have lived to the greateft age have been fuch as* did
not attain their full growth till a very advanced period of life, arid who have kept
their appetites and paffions under the raoft complete fubjedtion. In a word, thofe
who have exceeded 100 years, have in general been robuft, laborious, fober, and
careful to obferve the ftridteft regimen. Enjoying a good conftitution from nature,
they have feldom or never been fubjedt to difeafe. They have even enjoyed the
greateft health and vigour, and retained the ufe of their fenfes, to the laft moment
of their lives.
Among
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 147
, Among thofe who have led a life of contemplation and ftudy, many have reached
a very advanced age. Longevity is frequent among the different orders of religious,
who by their ftatutes are confined to a moderate diet, and obliged to abflain from
wine and the ufe of meat. Some4 celebrated anchorets have lived to a great age
while they fed upon nothing but the wild roots and fruits which they found in the
defert whither they had retired. The philofopher Xenophilus, who lived to the
age of 106,
was of the Pythagorean fedt. It is well known, that thofe philofophers
who held the tranfmigration of fouls denied themfelves the ufe of meat, becaufe
they imagined that killing an animal would be to affaffinate another felf. A coun-
try life has produced many found and vigorous old men. It is fuppofed that a
happy old age is attained with greater difficulty in towns than in the country. Sir
Hans Sloane, Duverney, and Eontenelle, howxver, are inftances of men whofe
lives have been fpent in cities, and yet extended to a very great length. It has been
obferved, that men deprived of reafon live very long; which is to be imputed to
their being exempt from thofe inquietudes which are the naofl deadly poifon. Per-
fons poffeffing a fufficiently good underftanding, but deftitute of ambition, have
been found to enjoy very long life. Men who are devoid of pretenfions, who are
free from thofe cares which a defire of fliining by a difplay of talents, or of acquir-
ing dignity and power, neceffarily brings in its train, who feel no regret for the
paft nor anxiety about the future, are ftrangers to thofe torments of the mind which
wafte and confume the body. To that tranquillity of foul, which is fo excellent a
prerogative of infancy, they add that of being long young by phyfical conftitution,
on which the moral has a firiking and powerful influence.
Premature wifdom, and early talents, are often fitter to excite aftonifliment than
expedlation. The rapid unfolding of the moral faculties, by fliortening the period
of youth, feems to diminilh in proportion the total duration of life. We have known
a young lady of feventeen, w'ho could fpeak very corredlly feven languages: flie
tranflated and wrote Latin, Greek, Italian, Spanilli, German, Englilh, and French!
but Ihe died at the age of eighteen. The young man by whom die was alked in,
marriage, having been informed that he could not obtain her hand till he had made
himfelf worthy of her by the fame degree of talents and information, died the fame
year, and at the fame age.
From the preceding obfervations, Haller has attempted to deduce the caufes
why a few men are longer exempted than others from the common fate.—The cir-
cumftances which oppofe their influence are independent of our will; fuch as the
ravages of epidemic diftempers ;
trouble and anxiety of mind, which create difeafes
in the body: or the torments of ambition. It is neceffary to live in a falubrious
climate; to enjoy a fortune fufficiently eafy to exclude thofe uneafy defires which
A. create
14S A KEY TO PHYSIC
create a feeling of want and privation ;
to be defcended from healthy parents, to
avoid drinking wine in youih ;
to drink water ;
and to eat little meat, and a great
deal of vegetables. It is neceffary alfo to be temperate in meals; moderate in plea-
fures, ftudy, and exercife; to be naturally inclined to cheerfulnefs ;
and to allot
a due time to fleep and repofe. —Long life is certainly very rare; but, as has been
already obferved, we muft diftingui/h between what is natural to the conftitution
of man and that which is the confequence of his condition. By the former he is
made to be long lived: but nature is arcefted in her courfe by local and accidental
caufes, which it is not always in our power to avoid.
Let us take a retrofpedtive view of man’s life from his infancy, and enumerate
the chief of thefe different caufes. Of a thoufand infants, extradted from the Lon-
don bills of mortality, twenty-three died almoft as foon as they came into the world ;
teething carried off fifty, and convulfions two hundred and feventy-feven : eighty
died of the fmall-pox, and feven of the meafles. Among the adult females, eight
at lead died in child-bed; confumption and affhma, difeafes more frequent in Eng-
land than in France, carried off a hundred and ninety-one of the fame fex, and
almoft a fifth part of the full-grown men. A hundred and fifty died of fevers.
At a more advanced age, twelve died of apoplexy, and forty-one of dropfy, with-
out mentioning thofe to whom difeafes of little importance in themfelves became
mortal. There only remained feventy-eight whofe death could be aferibed to old
age; and of thefe twenty-feven lived to the age of eighty and upwards. Among
the different difeafes of which we have juft now feen the fatal effects, and which
carry off more than nine-tenths of mankind, not one, it mufl be allowed, is na-
tural to the conflitution. The inhabitants of this ifland are in general but little
fubje6t to difeafes, excepting the fmall-pox and the meafles ;
and many of them
enjoy uninterrupted health to old age. —And here it may be proper to mention
what are the moft prevalent difeafes in other countries, which prove equally
fatal to the duration of human life. In northern climates, feurvy, the cholic of
the Laplanders, and the difeafes of the lungs, mofl; frequently occafion death. In
temperate climates, dropfy carries off a great many at the beginning of old age,
which is the boundary of life in the greateft part of both fexes, when they have
efcaped the acute difeafes, fuch as putrid fever, &c. Acute difeafes are moft com-
mon in warm countries. In fome places, '
the rays of the fun kill in a few hours
thofe who are expofed to its burning heat. The air of Egypt and of Afia Minor
engenders the plague, by which one half of their inhabitants are carried off. Be-
tween the tropics men are fubjedl to dyfenteries and violent fevers. The cold of
the night, in warm climates, occafions fometimes violent difeafes, fuch as palfy,
quinfey, and a fwelling of the head. Damp and marfliy places give rife to fevers
of
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. m
of a different kind, but alfo very dangerous. The life of failors has a ^*eat ten-
dency to produce fcurvy. How many profeffions prove fatal to the health, and
haften that period which nature would have brought on by flow degrees ! Miners, •
ftone-cutters, gilders, perfons employed in emptying privies, &c. are fubjed to
difeafes of the lungs, and become paralytic. Other profeffions of life bring on
other accidents, of which it would carry us too far to give a particular account.
What has been faid is fufificient to fhow, that it is the dangers with which we ar&
furrounded that fhorten the period of human exiftence.
By examining the lift of thofe who have attained a great age, it will be found that
mankind are longer lived in northern than in fouthern countries. It has been
obferved, that there are more old men in mountainous and elevated fituations than
in plains, and low countries. We repeat it, if the duration of life among the inhabi-
tants of fouthern climates be compared with the duration of life in northern nationsj
it will be allowed, that the latter enjoy both longer life and better health than the
former. Their growth being retarded by the rigour of the climate, their decay
mufl alfo be flower, becaufe of the proportion which exifls between the growth of
animals and the length of their lives. Among ten perfons who have lived to the
age of an hundred, eight or nine will be found to have lived in the north.
It appears from the bills of mortality, that in the country more boys are born
than girls; in cities, on the contrary, the number of females is commonly greatefl.
Obfervations made with great care prove, that in mofl countries there are fewer men
alive than women, and that naore males die, chiefly at the firfl and lafl periods of
life. In Sweden, the whole number of females, in 1763, was to that of males in the
proportion of ten to nine. The number of old women who exceeded eighty years
of age' was to that of old men of the fame age in proportion of thirty-three to
nineteen ;
and there were more women than men who had attained the age of eighty-
fix, in proportion of almoft two to one.
Dr. Price made obfervations, after Dr. Percival, on the difference of longevity,
and the duration of human life, in towns, country-parifhes, and villages;
of which ,the following is the refult: a greater number in proportion die i»
great towns than in fmall ones, and a greater number in the latter than in vil-
lages. The caufe of this difference, which is found to be very great, muff be, in
the firfl place, the luxury and diffipation which prevail in towms; and, fecondly,
the badnefs of the air. In the town of Manchefler, according to obfervation, l-28th
of the inhabitants die annually; whereas in the neighbouring country, the nunrber
of deaths does not exceed l-46th of the whole inhabitants. It may be laid down
as a general principle, that in great towns, the number of deaths annually is from
No. 10. Q one
150 A KEY TO PHYSIC
one in nineteen to one in twenty-two or twenty-three ;
in middling towns, from
one in twenty-four to one in twenty-eight; and in country parilhes and villages
feldom more than one in forty or fiity. In 1763, the number of inhabitants in
Stockholm amounted to 72979. The average number of deaths for the fix years
preceding had been 3802, which makes one in nineteen annually; while through-
out all Sweden, including the towns and the country, not more than one in thirty-five
die annually. At Rome the inhabitants are numbered every year. In 1771 they
were found to amount to 159675: the average number of deaths for ten years was
7367 ;
which makes one in twenty-three and a half annually. In London not lefs
than one in twenty three-fourths of the inhabitants die every )'ear.
M. Daubenton has given, in the Encyclopedic Methodique, a table of th e proba-
bilities of the duration of life, conflrudled from that which is to be found in the
feventh volume of the Supplemens a I’Hiftoire Naturelle de M. de BufFon. The,
following is an abridgement of it
:
Of twenty-three thoufand nine hundred and ninety-four children, born at the
fame time, there will probably die.
In one year 7998
Remaining 2-3ds, or 15996.
In eight years . 11997
Remaining 1-half, or 11997.
In thirty-eight years . 15996
Remaining l-3d, or 799B.
In fifty years 17994
Remaining l-4th, or 5998
In fixty-one years 19995
Remaining l-6th, or 3.999.
In feventy years 21595
Remaining 1-lOth, or 2599.
In eighty years 22395
Remaining l-40th, or 599.
In ninety years 23914
Remaining l-300th, dr 79.
In one hundred years . 23992
Remaining 1-1 0000th, or 2.
It thus appears, that a very fmall number of men indeed pafs through all the pe-
riods of life, and arrive at the goal marked out by nature. Innumerable caufes ac-
celerate our diflblution. The life of man, we have obferved, confifts in the adlivity
and
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. lil
and exercife of his organs-, which grow up and acquire llrength during infancy,
adolefcence, and youth. No fooner has the body attained its utmoft perfe^ion,
than it begins to decline. Its decay is at firft imperceptible ;
but in the progrefs of
time the membranes become cartilaginous, the cartilages acquire the confiftence of
bone; the bones become more folid, and all the fibres are hardened. Alraofi; all
the fat waftes away; the fkin becomes withered and fcaly ;
wrinkles are gradually
formed; the hair grows white; the teeth fall out; the face lofes its fliape; the
body is bent; and the colour and confiftence of the cryftalline humour become
more perceptible. The firft traces of this decay begin to be perceived at the age
of forty, and fometimes fooner; this is the age of decline. They increafe by flow
degrees till fixty, which is the period of old age. They increafe more rapidly till the
age of feventy or feventy-five. At this period" begins, and continues
always to increafe. Next fucceeds decrepitude, when the memory is gone, the ufe of
the fenfes loft, the ftrength totally annihilated, the organs worn out, and the func-
tions of the body almoft deftroyed. Little now remains to be loft; and, before the
age of ninety or a hundred, death terminates at once decrepitude and life.
The body then dies by little and little; its motion gradually diminiflies; life is
extinguifhed by fucceffive gradations, and death is only the laft term in the fuc-
ceffion. When the motion of the heart, which continues longeft, ceafes, man has
then breathed his laft ;
he has pafted from the ftate of life to the ftate of death ;
and,
as at his birth a breath opened to him the career of life, fo with a breath he finiflies
his courfe.
This natural caufe of death is cornmon to all animals, and even to vegetables.
We may obferve that the centre of an oak firft pefifhes and falls into the duft, be-
caufe thefe parts, having become harder and more compadl, can receive no further
nourifliment. The caufes of our diffolution, therefore, are as neceflary as death is
inevitable; and it is no more in our power to retard this fatal term than to alter
the eftabliflied laws of the univerfe. Hence the following maxim has been uni-
verfally adopted; Contra mm mortis, nullum medicamentum inhortis. In whatever
manner death happens, the time and circumftances thereof are unknown. It is
confidered, however, as at all times terrible, and the very thoughts of it fill the
mind with fear and trouble. It is notwithftanding our duty frequently to direct
our thoughts to that event, which muft inevitably happen, and by a life of virtue
and innocence to prepa,re againft thofe confequences which we fo much dread.
As in women the bones, the cartilages, the mufcles, and every other part of the
body, are fofter and lefs folid than thofe of men, they muft require more time in
hardening to that degree which occafions death.—Women of courfe ought to live
longer than men. This reafoning is confirmed by experience; for, by confulting
4 the
\5t A KEY TO PHYSIC
the bills of mortality, it appears, that, after women have palled a certain age, they
live much longer than men who have arrived at the fame age.—In like manner, it
is found by experience, that in women the age of youth is diorter and happier than
in men, but that the period of old age is longer, and attended with more trouble.
Cilius pubefcuut, citius fenefcunt.
After death, the organization of the body begins to be dilfolved, and all the parts
relax, corrupt, and feparate. This is produced by an intelline fermentation,
which occafions putrefaction, and reduces the body to volatile alkali, fetid oil,,
and earth.
The defire of felf-prefervation, and of protracting the lliort fpan of life, is fo in-
timately interwoven with our conllitution, that it is juftly elleemed one of the firll
principles of our nature, and, in fpite even of pain and mifery, feldom quits us to
the laft moments of our exiltence. It feems, therefore, to be no lefs our duty than
our interell to examine minutely into the various means that have been confidered
as conducive to health and long life; and, if poffible, to diftinguifli fuch circum-
flances as are effential to that great end, from thofe which are merely accidental.
It has long been known that frelli air is more immediately neceffary to life than
food; for a man may live two or three days without the latter, but not many mi-
nutes without the former. The vivifying principle contained in the atmofphere, fo
effential to the fupport of flame, as well as animal life, concerning which authors
have propofed fo many conjectures, is nothing elfe but the pure oxygenated
fluid difcovered by that ingenious philofopher Lavoifier. The common atmofphere
may well be fuppofed to be more or lefs healthy in proportion as it abounds
with this animating principle. As this exhales in copious ftreams from the green
leaves of all kinds of vegetables, even from tho.fe of the moft poifonous kind, may
we not, in fome meafure, account why inftances of longevity are fo much more
frequent in the country than in large cities; where the air, inftead of partaking fo
largely of this falutary impregnation, is daily contaminated with noxious animal
effluvia.
With refpeCl to climate, various obfervations confpire to prove, that thofe regions
which lie within the temperate zones are bell calculated to promote long life.
Hence, perhaps, may be explained, why Italy has produced fo many long livers,
and why iflands in general are more falutary than continents; of which Bermudas
and fome others afford examples. And it is a pleaflng circumftance that our own
jfland appears to contain far more inftances of longevity than could well be ima-
gined. The ingenious Mr. Whitehurft affures us, from certain faCls, that Englifli-
men are in general longer lived than North Americans; and that a Britifli confti-
tution will laft longer, even in that climate, than a native one. But it muft be
allowed
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 153
allowed in general, that the human conftitution is adapted to the peculiar ftate and
temperature of each refpeftive climate, fo that no part of the habitable globe can
be pronounced too hot or too cold for its inhabitants. Yet, in order to promote a
friendly intercourfe between the moft remote regions, the Author of nature has
wifely enabled the inhabitants to endure great and furprifing changes of temperature
with impunity.
Though foods and drink of the moft fimple kinds are allowed to be the beft cal-
culated for fupporting the body in health, yet it can hardly be doubted but variety
may be fafely indulged occafionally, provided men would reftrain their appetites
within the bounds of temperance; for bountiful Nature cannot be fuppofed to have
poured forth fuch a rich profufion of provifions, merely to tantalize the human
fpecies, without attributing to her the part of a cruel ftep-dame, inftead of that of
a kind and indulgent parent. Befides, we find, that, by the w^onderfui powers
of the digeftive organs, a variety of animal and vegetable fubftances, of very dif-
cordant principles, are happily affimilated into one bland homogeneous chyle;
therefore it feems natural to diftruft thofe cynical writers, who would rigidly confine
mankind to one fimple difli, and their drink to the mere water of the brook.
Nature, it is true, has pointed out that mild infipid fluid as the univerfal .diluent,
and therefore moft admirably adapted for our daily beverage : but experience has
equally proved, that vinous and fpirituous liquors, on certain occafions, are no
lefs falutary and beneficial, w'hether it be to fupport ftrength againft ficknefs or
bodily fatigue, or to exhilarate the mind under the prelTure of heavy misfortunes.
But, alas ! what Nature meant for innocent and ufeful cordials, to be ufed only
occafionally, and according to the dire6tion of reafon, cuftom and caprice have,
by degrees, rendered habitual to the human frame, and liable to the moft enormous
and deftrudlive abufes. Hence it may be juftly doubted, whether gluttony and in-
temperance have not depopulated the world more than even the fword, peftilence,
and famine. True, therefore, is the old maxim, Modus utendi ex veneno facit medU
camcntum, ex mtdicarnenio xenenum.
It is allowed on all hands, that alternate motion and reft, and fleep and watch-
ing, are neceffary conditions to health and longevity; and that they ought to be
adapted to age, temperaujent, conftitution, temperature of the climate, &c. but
the errors which mankind daily commit in thefe refpe^is become a fruitful fource of
difeafes. While fome are bloated and relaxed with eafe and indolence, others are
emaciated and become rigid through hard labour, w'atching, and fatigue.—Where
the animal fun6lious are duly performed, the fecretions go on regularly ; and the
different evacuations fo exaftly correfpond to the quantity of aliment taken in, in a
given time, that the body is found.to return daily to nearly the fame weight- If any
No. 10. E r particular
154 A KEY TO PHYSIC
particular evacuation happen to be preternaturally diminifhed, fome other eva-
cuation is proportionally augmented, and the equilibrium is commonly preferved
;
but continued irregularities, in thefe important fundtions, cannot but terminate in
difeafe. —The due regulation of the paffions, perhaps, contributes more to health
and longevity than'that of any other of the non-naturals. The animating paffions,
fuch as joy, hope, love, &c. when kept within proper bounds, gently excite the
nervous influence, promote an equable circulation, and are highly conducive to
health ;
while the deprcffing affedlions, fuch as fear, grief and defpair, produce the
contrary eflfe6t, and lay the foundation of the moft formidable difeafes.
From the light which hiftory affords us, as well as from the foregoing lifl; of
long lives, there is great reafon to believe, that longevity is in fome meafure here-
ditary; and that healthy long-lived parents would commonly tranfmit the fame to
their children, were it not for intemperance, and the frequent errors in medical ad-
vice, which fo evidently tend to the abbreviation of human life. —Where is it, but
from thefe caufes, and the unnatural modes of living, that, of all the children which
are born in the capital cities of Europe, nearly one half die in early infancy? To
whatelfe can we attribute this extraordinary mortality? Such an amazing proportion
of premature deaths is a circumllance unheard-of among favage nations, or among
the young of other animals! In the earlieft ages, we are informed, that human life
was protra6led to a very extraordinary length; yet how few perfons, in thefe latter
times, arrive at that period which nature feerns to have defigned! Man is by na-
ture a field-animal, and feems deftined to rife with the fun, and to fpend a large
portion of his time in the open air, to inure his body to robuft exercifes and the
inclemency of the feafons, and to niake a plain homely repaft only w hen hunger
dictates. But art has ftudioufly defeated the kind intentions of nature; and, by
enflaving him to all the blandifhments of fenfe, has left him, alas ! an eafy vidtim
to folly and caprice. Let the confideration of the following fubje6ts dire6l every
one, who values health and long life, to purfue the means nature has pointed out
for their prefervation and fuftenance.
Of nutrition.
NUTRITION, in the animal oeconomy, is the acceffion of new parts to the
body, either for its augmentation, or for the reparation of fuch as are worn off,
or exhaled through the pores and perfpiiing veffels, whereby the fluids are dimi-
niflied, and the body falls away. So that, to preferve life, it is neceffary that a
reftitution be made to the juices and folids of the body, at leaft equal to what is
loft by thofe motions; which is what we call the a^ion of nutrition. Now the
loft juices are eafily and quickly fupplied by aliment, air, &c. but the nutrition
/
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 155
of the folid parts is much more obfcure. This, indeed, has proved a fubjeft of
infinite doubts and differences among authors; nor had we any rational or fatisfac-
tory account of the fame, till that of the accurate Boerhaave, whofe do^rine is as
follows.
Every folid part of the body confifts of other fmaller ones, in all refpe6ls like tfce
larger; veffels, of veficles, and thofe of others ftill fmaller; bones, of officles, 8cc,
Which ftru6lure goes beyond all limits of fenfe, however affifled by art; as appears
by the experiments and obfervations of Malpighi, Ruyfch, Leeuwenhoek, and
Hooke. Yet it is fcarcely ppffible this divifion and fubdivifion fhould be infinite, as
thofe of foods and juices are. Again, it appears from microfcopes, injediions,
fmall wounds, exficcations, &c. that the folid parts of the body are very fmall,
compared with the fluids; and it is alfo demonftrable, from confidering the rife
and generation of the veffels, and the refolution of the greater veffels into their
fmaller conflituent ones, that all the folid mafs of the body is conftrudled of mere
nerves, as its elements. And, in effedl, all this mafs, an incredible fmall particle
only excepted, at firft arofe out of what was a very fmall colliquament, much like
the nervous juice itfelf; as is abundantly fliown by the great Malphighi, in his two
treatifes on incubated eggs. For neither does the white of the egg nourifh, till, by
means of the incubation, it has paffed innumerable degrees of fluidity, from its
firft thicknefs, to that exceeding fubtilty wherein it terminates. But, even then,
the liquor, thus given to the embryo, is exceedingly thick, in comparifon with
what it is to be when converted into its veffels and vifcera. Now, the firft tender
folids, arifing from this fubtle humour, do again pafs infinite intermediate degrees,
before they arrive ^t their utmoft ftate and confiftence ; as is Ihovvn by Malpighi in
eggs, and by Ruyfch in embryoes and fostufes. Hence, therefore, it follows, that
the folids, in their firft formation out of the liquids whence they arife, only differ
from them in reft, cohefion, and figure. Therefore fuch a particle, now in its
fluid ftate, will become a part of the folid to be formed out of it, as foon as there
happens to be a power to effe6l its cohefion with the other folid parts, howfoever
that cohefion be effected.
This cohefion is eafily produced in a fibre already formed, if there happen to be
a proper cavity in the folid, left open by forae loft particle^; and, at the fame time,
a particle in the fluid, anfwerable thereto in bulk, figure, and nature; and, laftly,
if there be a power wherewithal to intrude it into that place, or accomodate it
thereto. Thus will arife a real nutrition of the folids in the minute veffels, by
whofe union the large ones are formed ;
that is, in the nerves, or in veffels fimilar
thereto. Which being imprafticable by any other liquid than that brought into
thefe veffels, it appears very evident, that the nervous juice, at leaf!; a juice perfeQ;ly
like
156 A KEY TO PHYSIC
^
like it, is the immediate matter of nutrition: whence nutrition appears one of the
laft and mofi; perfedl adtions of the body ;
fince, to have this laudable, all the pre-
cedent actions muft of neceffity have been fo. The chyle, therefore, which fome
make the immediate matter of nutrition, is, indeed, fitted to fill the larger veffels ;
but it cannot nourifii or reftore them. This, when attenuated, changed, more
intimately mixed in the lungs by means of refpiration, and thus fitted for the
paffage of certain veflels, is indeed rendered fitter, yet far from being quite fit, to
be the matter of nutrition. But, by the repeated a6lion of the lungs, the vifcera,
veffels. See. there is formed, out of this humour, a foft, tenacious, plaftic, infipid,
ferum, which, thickening by the fire, becomes perfedlly like the white of an egg.
This fluid, therefore, has in it all the conditions found in that, from whence, by
fure experience, we know all the folid parts of an animal arife by mere incubation.
It is, therefore, a ftep nearer; but is mot yet quite difpofed for nutriment; much
lefs is the cruor, or red globular part of the blood, fo. Neither are yet fitted to
enter the veffels; yet both the one and the other are, by different authors, made
the nutritive juice. But, as the heat of the incubation, fo the action of the vifcera
and veffels on the ferum, introduces various changes therein, till at length a part of
it be rendered fubtile enough for the purpofe required. This, when exbaufled,
is inftantly repaired: and thus we have the true immediate matter of nutrition.
The matter of nutrition thus afeertained, the manner wherein, and the caufe
whereby, it is effedled, are as follows : A juice being driven diredlly through a full,
conic or cylindric, elaftic or rigid, canal ;
if its courfe be from a wider to a nar-
rower part, or if it have any thing to o[>pofe its motion, w ill endeavour to ftretch
the fides of its canal, according to the axis of its length. This muft be the cafe
every-where in the body, except, perhaps, in the veins and receptacles. By this
n^us, or endeavour, how weak foever, continually repeated, the veffels will be
infenfibly lengthened out; and, in lengtheninL^ they will be made more and more
flender. Hence the laft extremi ies of the veffels. which in man are extremely
fmall, are continually ftretched, and rendered lefs and lefa coherent, i. e. ftill
nearer and nearer to a diffolution; and thus at length will they cohere fo w'eakly,
as fcarcely to differ from fluids. While fuch motion goes bn, therefore, and the
propulfion is continued, there will, of neceffity, happen thefe two things: Firft,
the outmoft particles of the minuteft tubes being torn off, will again be converted
into a kind of humour, what part of the body foever they ftick in. Secondly, the
fmalleft particles, which, by their union, compofed the flendereft fibrill®, will be
fo feparated from each other, as to leave open interftices in thofe places, where,
before, they cohered. Both thefe effects will be produced at all times, and in all
parts of the body, fo long as life continues, efpecially where nature is ftrong, and
AND THD OCCULT SCIENCES. U7
the aftions of the body violent.. But the fame humour whereby thefe eflfe6ls are pro-
duc«d|, containing abundance of particles fimilar to thofe thus feparated and loft, con-
veys and applies them to thofe interftices, by tha,t veryimpetus whereby it endeavours
to diftend the canals; and, thus intercepted, at length it forms, adapts, and faftens,
them, fo as to adhere in the fame manner as the former. The matter, preparation,
application, energy of motion, ftill remaining the fame; what, from time to time,
is loft, is thus prefently reftored ; and the folids continue in the fame ftate as before,
that is, they are perpetually nourifhed, and fupjilied, and preferved.
In this the Creator’s wifdom is very confpicuous; dn that the fame power which
inevitably deftroys does repair again at the fame time, and by the fame a6tion;
and that, the greater the lofs is, the more copious the fupply; and, laftly, that
thofe parts firft fpent in the a6tion of the body are the firft reftored. Farther, it
is evident, that the newer, the more tender, and the nearer to the moving caufe,.
thefe veflels are, the more eafily will they be lengthened,- diftended, deftrOyed, and
repaired : our bodies, therefore, the nearer to the origin, the more do they grow.
For, the action ftill continuing, the greater veflels become more extended by their
fluid; and at the fame time the fmaller, whereof the membranes or coats, of the
larger fort are compofed, are comprefled, dried, and at laft concreted, and grow
up ;
whence arifes a firmnefs, indeed^ of the fibres, but a lofs of the veficles. Thus
what were formerly veflels commence There hard ligaments; and thus, the fluids
being once fixed,, the feveral veflels coalefce; from the concurrence of thefe caufes
arife the ftrength, hardnefs, rigidity, and thicknefs, of the folid parts. Hence the
number of veflels is greateft in embryoes, and; as age comes on, it fenfibly dimi-
niflies ;
and hence it is, that their weaknefs ‘conftantly declines, and their ftrength
and firmnefs increafe. In young people, therefore, the quantity of humours is
redundant, and greatly exceeds the folids: in old men, the folids exceed the fluids.
And hence we fee the reafon, manner, and appearance, ofgrowth, ftate, declenfion,
and, at length, of death from pure old age.
A perfon who confiders this account, and compares it with what is a6tually ob-
fervable in the body, will find every circumftance to obtain : thus the whole cuti-
cula is every-where, and at all times, conftantly defqua mating, peeling off, and
again renewdng; and thus the hair, nails, teeth, continually rubbed, torn, and
worn off, come again :
parts taken off from the veflels and the bones foon grow
again : and the fordes, or filth, rubbed off from the extremities of the veflels,
when examined by amicrofcope, or diluted, and viewed in water, appear plainly to
Gonfift both of folid and fluid parts; and thofe carried off by wafliing, fliaving, &c.
are' the fame. Hence too, we fee, that a general increafe of the bulk of the body,
with regard to habit, as in fat, flefliy, brawny, perfons, does not arife from any
No. 11. S f increafe
158 A KEY TO PHYSIC
increafe of the folids, but by their extenfion into larger cavities, 'Crowded with flag*
nant humours. And hence fatnefs becomes hurtful, as it loads, weakens, and
fuffocates. Whence arifes a very confiderable diftin6lion between nutrition and
repletion, to which a phyfician fliould have fpecial regard; the one ftrengthening
and condenfing the veffels ;
the other weakening, loofening, and extending, the
fame. Hence, laftly, we fee why the fabric of the folids is not deftroyed by the
contained fluids; how our machine comes to fubfift fo long; why, when a neive
is corrupted, the nutrition of that part it belongs to ceafes; and why the fame
obtains in an artery ;
why in an embryo there are no folids, in a foetus very few,
in old men a great deal ;
and why even the nerves, tendons, ai teries, and recep-
tacles, become firft cartilaginous, and then bony. Dr. Prieftley concludes, from
fome experiments undertaken with a view of difcovering the principle of nutrition
in vegetable and animal fubftances, that this principle is phlogifton, in fuch a ftate
as to be capable of becoming, by putrefaction, a true inflammable air, (hydro-
genous gas ;) but not generally fuch as to burn with explofion, but rather with a
blue and lambent flame, mixed with a certain proportion of fixed air. This prin-
ciple in nutrition is immediately held in folution by the gaftric juice, and in the
chyle formed by it ;
and, when it has entered into the circulation with the chyle, and
anfwered the purpofe in the animal oeconomy for w'hich it is defigned, it is thrown
out again by means of the blood in the lungs, and communicated to the air, which
is phlogifticated with it.
Of food, or aliment.
FROM aliment, or food, by the procefs of digeftion, is prepared a very mild, .
fweet, and whitifii, liquor, refembling milk, and diftinguiflied by the name of
chyle; which, being abforbed by the laCleal veins, by them conveyed into the cir-
culation, and there alfimilated into the nature of blood, affords that fupply of nu-
trition, which, as we have feen above, the continual wafle of the body is found to
require. Food is the moft neceffary thing for the prefervation of our bodies : and,
as on the choice thereof our health greatly depends, it is of much importance to un-
derlland, in general, what is the propereft for our nourifhment; and, in particular
deviations from health, what is the beft adapted to reftore us. Our blood and
juices naturally incline to become putrid and acrimonious : frefli chyle, duly re-
ceived, prevents this deftru6live tendency, and preferves in them that mild ftate
which alone confifts with health. An animal diet affords the moft of this bland
nutritious mucilage ;
watery fluids dilute the too grofs parts, and carry off what
is become unfit for ufe. It is only the fmall portion ofjelly which is feparated from
the farinaceous parts of vegetables, that, after being much elaborated, is con-
verted
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 159
verted into the animal nature ;
yet the ufe of vegetables prevents both repletion and
a too great tendency to a putrefcent acrimony of the blood. In hot climates, as
well as againft the conftitutional heat of particular perfons', vegetables are deraand-
=ed in the iargeft portion; animal fubftances afford the bigheft relifh while our ap-
petite continues; but will fate the appetite before the ftomach is duly filled. Ve-
getables may be eaten after either flefli or fifli : few herbs or fruits fatiate fo much
as that the ftomach may not be filled with them when it is already fatisfied vi-ith
flefli or fifli; whence it may be obferved, that no diet which is very nourifliing can
be eaten to fulnefs, becaufe its nutritious parts are oily and fatiating. Health de-
pends almoft wholly on a proper crafis of the. blood; and to preferve this, a mixture
of vegetables in fome degree is always required, for a loathing is foon the confe-
quence of animal food alone : hot acrid habits, too, receive from milk and vegeta-
bles the needful for corre6ting their excefles ;
but in cold, pituitous, and nervous,
habits, which want moft nourifhment from leaft digeftion, and from the fmalleft
quantity of food, animal diet is to be ufed more freely.
As the blood, the nutritive juice, and in general all the parts of the body, are
made up of three elements, viz. of one which is fulphureous, oily, and inflam-
mable; of one of an earthy, fubtile, alkaline, nature; and of one of an aqueous
nature : fo the feveral kinds and virtues of food may be moft commodioufly re-
duced to thefe three claffes; and aliments of thefe three feveral qualities, duly mix-
ed with one another, afford a proper nourifhment for the human body.—The flefh
of animals, efpecially when roafted, affords the body its principal fupply of the
fulphureous part; but it-is to be obferved, that wild animals are preferable in this
refpeft to the tame and domeftic kind, becaufe their oils and falts are exalted by.
habitual exercife. Among the aliments which furnifh the blood with its humid
parts, of animals, fifh; and of vegetables, pot-herbs, the milder roots, and fome
fummer-fruits; are reckoned the principal. To the third clafs, which fupplies the
blood with its fixed and earthy parts, belong all kinds of grain, as the feveral forts
of bread, rice, peafe, beans, lentils, chefnuts, almonds, cocoa, cheefe, &c. From
what has been faid, it will appear that all fuch aliments as are of a mild quality,
and refemble the chyle and blood, are fit for nourifhment ;
that all fuch food as
either recedes from, or is quite oppofite to, the nature of the chyle and blood, is
unfit for nourifhing the parts; that all food in which there is too much of an acid,
is improper for nourifhment, becaufe milk and blood will not mix with an acid,
which is quite oppofite to their natures, and induces a coagulation of the circulat-
ing juices ;
that all falts, and all foods too highly failed, mull be unfit for nou-
<rilhment, becaufe no fait whatever can be mixed with the blood, chyle, and milk;
and
160 A KEY TO PHYSIC
and laftly, that the free ufe of fpirits inuft, be very detrimental both to health and
nourilhment, becaufe blood and chyle never incorporate with fpirituous liquors, but
rather feparate from them.
Thus much being obvious as general principles vvith refped to the matter and
quality of our aliment, the valetudinarian may eafily regulate his diet with fome ad-
vantage to himfelf by an attention to the few enfuing particulars. In winter, eat
freely, but drink fparingly ; roaft meat is to be preferred, and what is drunk fliould
be ftronser than at other feafons. In fummer, let thirft determine the quantity to
be drunk; cold ftomachs never require much: boiled meats and vegetables, if
not otherwife contradidted, may now be more freely ufed. Lax habits require
the winter’s diet to be continued all the year, and rigid ones diould be confined to
that of fummer. Occafional fading will prevent the neceffity of periodical bleeding,
&c. Thofe who are troubled with erudlations occafioned by their food fliould
drink but little, and ufe fome unaccuftomed -exercife. The thirfty lliould drink
freely, but eat fparingly. In general, let moderation be obferved; and, though no
dinner hath been had, a light fupper is at all times to be preferred. After verr
high feafoned meats, a glafs of water acidulated wdth the acid elixir of vitriol, or in
very weak ftomachs the fweet elixir of vitriol, is far more afliftant to the work of
digeftion than tlie common method of taking brandy.
As to common drink, water alone is fufficient and effedlual for all the purpofes of
nature. Strong liquors were never defigned for common ufe. They were formerly
kept here in England, as other medicines are, in apothecaries’ fliops, and prefcribed
by phyficians, as they do diafcordiumj and Venice treacle, to refrefli the weary,
ftrengthen the weak, and raife the low-fpirited. The effedt of the ordinary ufe of
wine and fpirituous liquors, as natural caufes will always produce their effedts,
is to inflame the body into gout, ftone, and rheumatifm, fevers, pleurifies, fmall-
pox, &c. to dry up the juices, and fcorch and flirivel the folids. Thofe whofe ap-
petite and digeftion are good and entire, never want ftrong liquors to fupply them
with fpirits ;
fuch fpirits are too volatile and fugitive for any folid or ufeful pur-
pofes of life. Two ounces of flefli-meat, well digefted, beget a greater ftock of
more durable and ufeful fpirits than ten times as much ftrong liquor.
All ftrong liquors are as hard to digeft, and require as much labour of the con-
coflive powers, as ftrong food itfelf. Water is the only univerfal dilfolvent, or
menftruum, and the moft certain diluter of all bodies proper for food. There are
a great many fpirituous liquors, which not only will not diffolve, but which will
harden, and make more indigeftible, certain parts, efpecially the falts of bodies,
wherein their active qualities, that is, thofe which can do moft harm to human con-
ftitutions,
161
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES.
ftitutions, confift. And we have known perfons of tender conftitutions, who could
neither eat nor digeft upon drinking wine, but who, by drinking at meals common
water, warmed, have recovered their appetites and digeftion, and have thriven
and grown plump. It is true, ftrong liquors, by their heett, and ftimulation on the
organs of conco61;ion, by increafing the velocity of the motion of the fluids, and
thereby quickening the other animal fun6lions, will carry off the load that lies upon
the ftomach, with more prefe?it cheerfulness. But then, befides the future damage
of fuch a quantity of wine to the ftomach and fluids, by its heat and inflammation,
the food is hurried into the habit unconco6led, and lays a foundation for a fever,
a fit, of the cholic, or fome chronical difeafe. With refpe6l to fermented liquors,
which are commonly ufed, it may be obferved, that thofe which are too ftrong
hurt digeftion, and are fo far from ftrengthening the body, that they weaken and
relax it. They keep up a conftant fever, which exhaufts the fpirits, heats and in-
flames the blood, difpofes to numberlefs difeafes, and occafions a premature olft
age. But fermented liquors may be too weak, as well as too ftrong : thefe muft
either be drunk new, before the fermentation is over, and in this cafe will generate
air in the bowels, and occafion flatulencies ;
or they foon become ftale, four the
ftomach, and injure digeftion. On this account all malt liquors, cider, &c. ftiould
be fufficientlV ftrong to keep till they are ripe, and then they ftiould be ufed ;
and
neither fooner nor later. Liquors that are adulterated with a mixture of ingredi-
ents of the opiate kind, which are poifonous in their quality, as they moftly are by
thofe who make them for fale, hurt the nerves, relax and w'eaken the ftomach, and
fpoil its digeftive powers.
A due regulation of the quantity and quality of our meat and drink, and a nice
adjuftment thereof to the conco6live powers, is of the utmoft confequence to health
and long life. What we expend in motion, excretion, effluvia, &c. is but a deter-
minate quantity; and the fupply ftiould only keep pace with the expence; a juft
proportion of the two would, probably, prefsrve us from acute diftempers, as it
certainly would from chronical ones; moft or all of which proceed from reple-
tion, as appears fromitheir being cured by evacuation.
Phyficians have attempted to determine the healthful quantity of food for a hu^
man body. Some fay, that in winter, when the perfpiration of an unexercifed per-
fon is only equal to the urine, the diet for twenty-four hours ought not to exceed four
pounds, or four pounds and a half. In fummer, the diet may be fix pounds and
a half, which may be carried off without the help of exercife, when the air is hot
and dry. If the quantity of food be fuch as to make the perfpiratien and urine of
a natural day always nearly equal, and the morning weight of the body always
nearly the fame, that quantity is the truly healthful quantity of food for grown
No. 11. Tt bodies
152 A KEY TO PHYSIC
bodies which ufe but little exercife. The quantity of food neceffary to keep a
grown body in health, will be better and more eafily digefted, when it is fo divided
as to make the meals equal, than when they are very unequal. The diftance be-
tween one meal and another fhould bear fome proportion to the largenefs of the pre-
ceding meal. Good and conftant health confifts in a juft quantity of food, and a
juft proportion of the meat to the drink; and, in order to be freed from chronical
diforders contradfed by intemperance, the quantity of food ought to be lefleued,
and the proportion of the meat to the drink increafed, more or lefs, according to
the greatnefs of the diforders ;
and both the quantity of food, and the proportion
of meat to the drink, ought to be fuch as ftiall make perfpiration anti urine nearly
equal at all feafons of the year.
The quantity of animal food confumed by the Englifti is generally pernicious,
becaufe it produces b'ut little of that air which is autifeptic: hence they are fubje^l
to the fcurvy, and its numerous train of confequences, indigeftion, low fpirits,
hypochondriacifm, &c. w'hereas, if vegetables and milk, whofe antifeptic quality,
arifing from the gas or air which they plentifully afford, were more ufed as food,
we fhould have lefs fcurvy, and likewife fewer putrid and inflammatory fevers.
One great reafon why leproftes, hot fcurvies, dyfenteries, plagues, peftilential
fevers, and the like diftempers, formerly fo frequent in London, are now fo rare,
is the change that has been made in the food of the inhabitants. Hopped beer,
and wine, coming into general ufe, have been a great means of fupprefling putrid
difeafes; greens and fruit are likewife more univerfally eaten, and failed meats
make a much lefs part of our food than formerly: to which may be added the more
general confumption of tea and fugar.
Vegetable food is moft proper for fcorbutic and hedtical perfons, and does very
well with people who have much exercife; but in other circumftances, a mixed diet
of vegetable and animal fubftances, fuch as is commonly ufed, feems beft calculated
to nourifli and preferve the body from decay.
The fofter and milder kinds of aliment are proper for children, and for youth the
ftronger. Old people ought to leflen the quantity of their food, and increafe that
of their drink : but yet fome allowance is to be made for cuftom, efpecially in
cold climates; for, as in thefethe appetite is keener, fo is thedigeftion ftronger and
better performed.
Different fexes alfo require a different food and regimen. Women are weaker
than men, and for that reafon require a food and regimen peculiar to themfelves
;
they are of a fpungy and lax habit, and for the moft part addidled to indolence and
pleafure, drink little, have bodies of a highly delicate and fenfible nature, much
inclined to fpafms and convulftve motions, and difpofed to generate a redundance
of
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. ;if)3
of blood, Befides, at certain Hated times they have a regular evacuation by the
veins of the uterus; and in confequences of thefe circumftances it is neceffary that
women, rather than men^ ihould obferve a regimen and method of living peculiarly
and accurately adapted to their habit and conllitution.
Hence it is obvious, that the phyfician a6ts a prepofterous and unaccountable
part who to every one prefcribes the fame method of living; or thinks, that what
contributes to the health of one will without diftin6fion orreferve prove falutary to
all. For we are fufficiently taught by daily experience, that all fubftahces are not
equally adapted to all patients; and that what one may bear without being fenfible
of any bad effe6ls, may to another prove prejudicial, and even fatal. Time itfelf
has a confiderable influence in determining the falutary or noxious effe6ts of ali-
ments; fince fome fubftances may fafely, and without any bad confequence, be
ufed at one feafon, which at another may contribute not a little to the deflru61;ion
of health.
As to the effedfs of food on the mind, it is plain, that delicacy of feeling, live-
linefs of imagination, quicknefs of apprehenfion, and acutenefs of judgment, very
frequently accompany a weak flate of the body. True it is, indeed, that the fame
Hate is liable to timidity, flm^uation, and doubt ;
while the ftrong have that fteadi-
nefs of judgment, and firmnefs of purpofe, which are proper for the higher and
more active fcenes of life. The mofl; valuable Hate of the mind, however, ap-
pears to refide in fomewhat lefs firmnefs and vigour of body. Vegetable aliment,
as never over-diftending the velfels or loading the fyflem, never interrupts the
flronger motions of the mind ;
while the heat, fulnefs, and weight, of animal food,
are an enemy to Us vigorous efforts. Temperance, then, does not fo much confifl;
in the quantity, for that always will be regulated by our appetite, as in the quality,
viz. a large proportion of vegetable aliment.
Of air.
IT is no eafy talk to afcertain the nature and origin of air, as being a fluid im-
perceptible to all our fenfes, except that of feeling. Indeed, from the refiflance
and impreffion it makes, we know that there is fuch a body, which every-where
furrounds our earth, and is of the utmoft importance, not only to mankind, in pro-
moting many ufeful arts, but abfolutely neceffary for the prefervation of health
and life.
The wholefomenefs or unwholefomenefs of air is certainly owing to the differ-
ent effluvia with which it abounds, and ought to be particularly attended to by the
valetudinarian. The befl air is to be met with in open champaign countries ;
where the foil is dry, not parched or fandy, and fpontaneoufly produces wild
4 thyme.
164 A KEY TO' PHYSIC
thyme, wild marjoram, and the like fweet-feented plants. That near rivers is
rather prejudicial, unlefs they are final!, clear, and have a gravelly channel. The
morning air is deemed more refrefliing than that of the evening, and air agitated
with breezes than that which is ferenc and ftill. As good air contributes greatly
to health, fo that wnich is bad is no leis prejudicial to it. Stagnating air is pro-
du6tive of putrid and malignant diforders, as dyfenteries, bilious .fevers, &c. and
that which is too moift, of inflammatory ones, as coughs, rheumatifms, &c.
Moift and rainy feafons, however, differ widely in this refpecl; fince, in marfliy
countries, intenfe and continued heats occafion the greateft moifture in the air:
whereas frequent fliowers, during the hot feafon, cool it, check the excefs of va-
pour, dilute and refrefli the corrupted ftagnating water, and precipitate all noxious
and putrid effluvia.
To the preffure of air we are to attribute the coherence of the parts of bodies.
Breathing too, on which depends animal life, is owing to the preffure and fpring
of the air; and to the fame caufe may be attributed the produdlion of fire and
flame, as appears from the fudden extindiion of a coal or candle in the exhaufted
receiver. It is likewife neceffary for the exiftence and preparation of founds, for
the germination and growth of plants, for conveying all the variety of fmells, and
for tranfmitting the rays and influence of the celeftial bodies. In fhort, fuch is the
generating and vivifying power of air, that fome of the ancient philofophers confi-
dered it as the firft principle of all things. Air not only adls upon all bodies by its
common properties of weight and elafticity, but by the peculiar virtues of the in-
gredients whereof it is compofed. By means of a corroding acid, it diffolves iron
and copper, unlefs well defended by oil. Even gold, in the chemift’s laboratory,
when the air is impregnated with the effluvia of aqua regia, contradts a ruff like
other bodies. It fixes volatile bodies, and volatilizes thofe which are fixed. From
the different effluvia, diffufed through the air, proceed a variety of effedls. Near
mines of copper, it will difcolour filver and brafs; and in London, the air of
which abounds with acid and corrofive particles, metalline utenfils ruff fooner than
in the country. It is very difficult to obtain oil of fulphur in a clear dry air, as its
parts are then more ready to evaporate; whereas in a moift cloudy air it may be
obtained in abundance. All falts melt moft readily in cloudy weather; and fepa-
rations fucceed beft in the fame ftate of the air. If pure wine be carried into a place
where the air is full of the fumes of wine then fermenting, it will begin to ferment
afrefh.
Wherever air ftagnates long, it becomes unwholefome. Hence the unhsTppy
perfons confined in gaols not only contradf malignant fevers themfelves, but often
communicate them to others. Nor are many of the holes, for we cannot call them
houfes,,
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 16S
houfes, poffeffed by the poor in great towns, innch better than gaols. Thefe low
dirty habitations are the very lurking-places of bad air and contagious difeafes.
Such as live in them feldom enjoy good health; and their children commonly die
young. In tiie choice of ahoufe, thofe who have it in their power ought always to
pay the greatefi; attention to open free air. The various methods which luxury has
invented to make houfes clofeand w'arm, contribute not a little to render them un-
wholefome. No houfe can be wholefome unlefs the air has a free paffage through
it. For which reafon houfes ought daily to be ventilated, by opening oppofite
windows, and admitting a current of frefli air into every room. Beds, inftead of
being made up as foon as people rife out of them, ought to be turned down, and
expofed to the frediair from the open windows through the day. This w'ould expel
any noxious vapour, and could not fail to promote the health of the inhabitants.
In hofpitals, gaols, fliips, &c. where that cannot be conveniently done, ventilators
fliould be ufed. The method of expelling foul, and introducing frefh, air, by
means of ventilators, is a moft falutary invention, and is indeed the moft ufeful of
all our modern medical improvements. It is capable of univerfal application, and
is fraught with numerous advantages, both to thofe in health and in licknefs. In all
places where numbers of people are crowded together, ventilation becomes abfo-
lutely necelfary. Air which flagnates in mines, wells, cellars, &c. is extremely
noxious. That kind of air is to be avoided as the moft deadly poifon. It often
kills almoft as quickly as lightning. For this reafon, people fliould be very cautious
in opening cellars that have been long fhut, or going dowm into deep wells, or pits,
efpecially if they have been kept clofe covered. We have daily accounts of per-
fons who lofe their lives by going down into deep wells and other places where the
air ftagnates. All thefe accidents might be prevented by only letting down a lighted
candle before them, and ftopping w hen they perceive it go out :
yet this precaution,
Ample as it is, is feldom ufed.
If frefti air be necelfary for thofe in health, it is ftill more fo for the fick, w’ho
often lofe their lives for want of it. Xhe notion that fick people muft be kept very
hot, is fo common, that one can hardly enter the chamber where a patient lies, with-
out being ready to faint, by reafon of the hot fuffocating fmell. How this muft af-
fe6l the lick any one may judge. No medicine is fo beneficial to the fick as frelh
air. It is the moft reviving of all cordials, if it be adminiftered with prudence. We
are not, however, to throw open doors and windows at random upon the fick. Frefh
air is to be let into the chamber gradually, and, if poffible, by opening the windows
of fome other apartment.
There are many kinds of air, produced by accidental or artificial caufes, of which
the following are the moft material
:
No. 11. U u Deplilogijiicafed
166 A KEY TO PHYSIC
Dephlogijlicated air, the oxygenous gas, or vital air, of the new cherniftry, is an
elaftic fluid naturally extricated in the procefs of vegetation; but artificially pro-
cured from nitre, minium, rnagnefia, water, &c. This is eminently capable of fup-
porting flame and animal life, and is one of the component parts of our atmofphere.
Phlogijiicateclair, or azotic gas, is produced in great quantities during putrefa6lion
and fermentation; and is alfo obtained in the calcination of metals and other phlo-
giflic proceffes. Itdeftroys animal life, and extinguiflies flame; but is very friendly
to vegetation, and is another of the component parts of our atmofphere.
Fixed air, or carbonic acid gas, derives its name from the property of adhering to
certain bodies, and fixing itfelf in them. It confifts of dephlogifticatcd air united to
charcoal ;
this is obtained by fermentation, and in all phlogiflic procefles, and mani-
fefts the properties of an acid. It extinguiflies flame, and deflroys animal life.
Inflammable air, (hydrogenous gas,) confifts wholly of charcoal and water rarefied
by heat; and is remarkable for being the lighteft of all gravitating fubftances. It is
produced naturally fromall putrid w-aters, and may be artificially procured from cer-
tain metallic folutions, by paffing the fteam of water over red-hot iron, and by diftil-
ling vvood, pit-coal, &c. with a ftrong heat, or by oppofing charcoal to the heat of a
burning lens in vacuo. It extinguiflies flame, unlefs it be mixed with a certain pro-
portion of atmofpherical, or dephlogifticatcd, air; in which cafe, it explodes vio-
lently. It deftroys animal life, but is friendly to vegetation.
Nitrous air, or nitrous gas, is procured artificially by diflblving metallic or other
fubftances in nitrous acid. Being mixed with dephlogifticatcd air, both the fluids
lofe their elafticity, and a fmall quantity of nitrous acid is produced. Itinftantly
kills animals and extinguiflies flame. By union with fome metals it is converted
into volatile alkali. In fome cafes it may be made to fupport flame, and even ani-
mal life. Its property of condenfing with dephlogifticatcd air, renders it a teft of
the falubrity of the atmofphere.
Marine acid air, the muriatic acid gas of the new chemiftry, is the fame as marine
acid reduced into vapour, and deprived of moft of its waters.
Dephlogijlicated marine acid air, or oxygenated muriatic acid gas, is fuppofed by
fome to be the marine acid deprived of its phlogifton; by others, to be the fame acid
with an addition of pure air. It deftroys many kinds of colours, and, with inflam-
mable air, regenerates common marine acid.
Alkcdine air, or ammoniacal gas, is the fame w ith pure volatile alkali, and is form-
ed by an union of phlogifticated and inflammable air.
Hepatic air, or fulphureous acid gas, is produced from the decompofition of liver
of fulphur by acids; and in the common atmofphere it is inflammable, but does not
burn with explofion.
Atmofpherical
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 167
Minofpherical air, is coaipofed of dephlogifticated and phlogifticated air, and thus
fupports and fuftains both animal life and vegetation.
The exterior part of our habitable world is the air or atinofphere, a fpringy
body, that encompaffes the folid earth on all fides, and is near a thoufand times
lighter Chan water; and the higher it is, the lefs it is compreffed by the fuperior
incumbent air; and fo confequently, it being a fpringy body, the thinner it is.
And, as a pillar of air^f any diameter is equal in weight to a pillar of quickfilvef
of the fame diameter of between twenty-nine and thirty inches high, we may
infer that the top of the atinofphere is not very near the furface of the folid earth-
Now, as quickfilver is near fourteen times heavier than water, the atmofphere will
fuflain a column of water about fourteen times higher than the column of quick-
filver, that is, about thirty-four feet; and, if we confider that air is a thoufand times
lighter than water, then a pillar of air, equal in \veight to a pillar of quickfilver of
thirty inches high, will be thirty-four thoufand feet; whereby we come
to know, that the air or atmofphere is at leaft 34,000 feet, that is, about fix
miles, high, but probably much more. And if we confider that the air is a
fpringy body, and that that which is neareft the earth is compreffed by the
weight of all the atmofphere above it, we fliall find that the air near the furface
of the earth is much denfer and thicker than it is in the upper regions. On this
theory it may be accounted for why great cities are not fo healthful to refide in as
fmall towns and country villages; and why London is much more prejudicial to
health, owing to the many works containing noxious effluvia poffeffed of the com-
ponent pa,rts mentioned in the different kinds of air, and confequently forms an air
to breathe in that is not congenial to the life of Man.
Of exercise.
EXERCISE may be faid to be either a6tive or paffive. The a6live is walking,
hunting, dancing, playing at bowls, and the like ; as alfo fpeaking, and other
labour of the body and mind. The paffive is riding in a coach, on horfeback, or
in any other manner. Exercife may be continued to a beginning of wearinefs,
and ought to be ufed before dinner in a pure light air; for which reafon, journeys,
and going -into the country, contribute greatly to preferve and re-eftablifh health.
Exercife increafes the circulation of the blood, attenuates and divides the fluids,
and promotes a regular perfpiration, as well as a due fecretion of all the humours
;
for it accelerates the animal fpirits, and facilitates their diftribution into all the fibres
of the body, Rrengthens the parts, creates an appetite, and helps digeftion. Whence
it arifes, that thofe who accuftom themfelves to exercife are generally very robuft,
and feldom fubjed to difeafes.
Boerhaave
168 A KEY TO PHYSIC
Boerhaave recommends bodily exercife in difeafes of a weak and lax fibre. By
riding on horfeback, the pendulous vifeera of the abdomen are fiiaken every mo-
ment, and gently rubbed as it were one againft another, while in the mean time
the pure air a6ts on the lungs with greater force. But it is to be obferved, that a
weak man fhould not ride with a full flomach, but either before dinner or after
the digeflion is near finiflied; for, when the flomach is diflended, weak people do
not bear thefe concuffions of th&horfe without difficulty; but, when the primce vise
are near empty, the remaining fasces are difcharged by this concuffion. Sailing in
a fiiip isalfo an exercife of great ufe to weak people. If the veffel moves with an
even motion, by increafing perfpiration it ufually excites a wonderful alacrity,
creates an appetite, and promotes digeflion. Thefe exercifes are more efpecially
ferviceable to weak people; but, in order to flrengthen the body by mufcular mo-
tion, running and bodily exercifes are to be ufed. In thefe we fhould begin
w'ith the mofl gentle, fuch as walking, and increafe it by degrees till we come to
running. Thofe exercifes of the body are more efpecially ferviceable which give
delight to the mind at the fame time, as tennis, fencing, &c. for which reafon,
the wifdom of antiquity appointed rewards for thofe who excelled in thefe gym-
naflic exercifes, that by this means the bodies of their youth might be hardened for
warlike toils.
As nothing is more conduciv£ to health than moderate exercife, fo violent exer-
cife diffipates the fpirits, weakens the body, deflroys the elafticity of the fibres,
and exhaufls the fluid parts of the blood. No wonder, then, that acute and mor-
tal fevers often arife from too violent exercife of the body ;
for the motion of the
venous blood towards the heart being quickened by the contradlion of the mufcles,
and the veins being thus depleted, the arteries more eafily propel their contained
humours through the fmalleft extremities into the now lefs-refifling veins ;
and
therefore the velocity of the circulation will be increafed through all the veflels.
But this cannot be performed without applying the humours oftener, or in a
greater quantity, to the fecretory organs in the fame time, whence the more fluid
parts of the blood will be diffipated, and what remains will be infpiffated; and, by
the greater adlion of the velfels upon their contained fluids, and of the re-a6ling
fluids upon the veffels, the blood acquires an inflammatory denfity. Add to this,
that by the violent attrition of the folids and fluids, together with the heat thence
arifmg, all the humours will incline to a greater acrimony, and the falts and oils
of the blood will become more acrid and volatile. Hence thofe fevers which arife
from too much exercife or motion, are cured by the reft of body and mind, with fuch
aliments and medicines as moiften, dilute, and foften or allay acrimony.
The exercife of afoldier in camp, confidered as conducive to health. Dr. Pringle
diftinguifties into three heads; the firft relating to his duty, the fecond to his
169
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES,
living more comlnodioully, and the third to his diverfions. The firft, confifting
chiefly in the exercife of his arms, will be no lefs the means of preferving health than
of making him expert in his duty: and frequent returns of this, early, and before
the fun grow's hot, will be more advantageous than repeating it feldom, and
flaying out long at a time; for, a camp affording little convenience for refrefhment,
all unneceffary fatigue is to be avoided. As to the fecond article, cutting boughs
for fliading the tents, making trenches round them for carrying off the water, airing
the flraw, cleaning their clothes and accoutrements, and affifting in the bufinefs of
the mefs, ought to be no difagreeable exercife to the men for fome part of the day.
Laftly, as to diverfions, the men muft be encouraged to them either by the example
of their officers, or by fmall premiums to thofe who fhall excel in fuch kind of fport®
as fliall be judged moft conducive to health: but herein great caution is neceffary,
not to allow them to fatigue themfelves too much, efpecially in hot weather or fickly
limes; but above all, that theirclothes be kept dry, wet clothes being frequent caufes
of difeafes and death.
Exercife, above all, is peculiarly neceffary to the philofopher, the ftudent, and
young gentlemen at fchool. How ufeful, how agreeable foever, ftudy may be to
the mind, it is very far from being equally falutary to the body. Every one ob-
ferves, that the Creator has formed an intimate conne6tion between the body and
the mind ;
a perpetual a6tion and re-a6tion, by which the body inftantly feels the
diforders of the mind, and the mine! thofe of the body. The delicate fprings of
our frail machines lofe their activity and become enervated, and the veffels are
choaked by obflru6tions, when we totally defift from exercife ;
and the confequences
neceffarily affe6l the brain: a life entirely ftudious and fedentary is therefore
equally prejudicial to body and mind. The limbs likewife become ftiff; we con-
tra6l an aukward conftrained manner; a certahi difguftful air attends all our
a6lions, and we are very near being as difagreeable to ourfelves as to others. An
inclination to ftudy is highly commendable; but it ought not, however, to in-
fpire us with an averfion to fiuciety. The natural lot of man is to live among his
fellows: and, whatever may be the condition of our birth or our fituation in life,
there are a thoufand occafions where a man muft naturally defire to render hiinfelf
agreeable; to be a6tive and adroit; to dance with a grace; to command the fiery
fteed ;
to defend, himfelf againft a brutal enemy ;
to preferve his life by dexterity,
as by leaping, fwimming. See, Many rational caufes have therefore given rife
to the pra6lice of particular exercifes; and the moft fagacious and benevolent le-
giflators have inftituted, in their academies and univerfities, proper methods of
Enabling youth, who devote themfelves to ftudy, to become expert alfo in laudable
athletic exercifes.
No, 11. , Xx Whoever
170 A KEY TO PHYSIC
Whoever confiders the ftru6ture of the human body will foon be convinced of
the neceffity of exercife for the health of children. The body is compofed of an
infinite number of velfels, whofe fluids cannot be puflied on without the adlion
and preflure of the mufcles. But, if the fluids remain inadtive, obflrudtions muft
happen, and the humours will, of courfe, be vitiated, which cannot fail to occafion
difeafes. Nature has furnilhed both the velfels which carry the blood and lymph
with numerous valves, in order that the adlion of every mufcle might pufli for-
ward their contents; but, without adlion, this admirable contrivance can have no
effedt. This part of the animal oeconomy proves to a demonftration the neceflity
of exercife for the prefervation of health. Without exercife, the circulation of the
blood cannot be properly carried on, nor the different fecretions duly performed;
without exercife, the humours cannot be properly prepared, nor the folids rendered
ftrong or firm. The adlion of the heart, the motion of the lungs, and all the
vital fundlions, are greatly ^affi fled by exercife. But to point out the manner in
which thefe effedls are produced, would lead us farther into the oeconomy of the
human body than moft of th.ofe for whom this treatife is intended would be able
to follow. We fliall therefore only add, that, where exercife is negledled, none
of the animal fundlions can be duly performed; and, when that is the cafe, the whole
conftitution muft go to wreck.
The love of activity fliows itfelf very early in man. So ftrong is this principle,
that a healthy youth cannot be reftrained from exercife, even by the fear of punifli-
ment. Our love of motion is furely a ftrong proof of its utility. Nature implants
no difpofition in vain. It feems to be a catholic law throughout the whole animal
creation, that no creature, without exercife, fliould enjoy health, or be able to find
fubfiftence. Every creature, except man, takes as much of it as is neceffary. He
alone, and fuch animals as are under his diredlion, deviate from this original law
and they fuffer accordingly. Inadlivity never fails to induce an univerfal relaxa-
tion of the folids, which difpofes the body to innumerable difeafes. When the
folids are relaxed, neither the digeftion nor any of the fecretions can be duly per-
formed. In this cafe, the worft confequences muft enfue. How can perfons who
loll all day in eafy chairs, and fleep all night on beds of down, fail to be relaxed ?
Nor do fuch greatly mend the rjiatter, who never ftir abroad but in a coach, fedan,
or fuch like. Thefe elegant pieces of luxury are become fo common, that the in-
habitants of great towns feem to be in fome danger of loftng the ufe of their limbs
altogether. It is now below anyone to walk, who can afford to be carried. How
ridiculous would it feem, to a perfon unacquainted with modern luxury, to behold
the young and healthy fwinging along on the flioulders of their fellow-creatures 1
or to fee a fat carcafe, over-run with difeafes occafioaed by inadlivity, dragged
through the ftreets by half a dozen horfcs
!
Giandular
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 171
Glandular obftrudlions, now fo common, generally proceed from ina6livity.
'
Thefe are the moft obflinate of maladies. So long as the liver, kidneys, and other
glands, duly perform their functions, health is feldom impaired; but, when they
fail, nothing can reftore it, Exercife is almoft the only cure we know for glan-
dular obftrudbons; indeed, it does not always fucceed as a remedy
;
but there is.
reafon to believe that it would feldam fail to prevent thefe complaints, were it
ufed in due time,. One thing is certain, that, amongft thofe who take fufficient.
exercife, glandular difeafes are very little known ; whereas the indolent and
inadive are feldom free from them. Weak nerves are the conftant companions of
inadivity. Nothing but exercife and open air can brace and ftrengthen the nerves,,
or prevent the endlefs train of difeafes which proceed from a relaxed date of thefe.
organs. We feldom hear the adive or laborious complain of nervous difeafes;.
thefe are referved for the fons of eafe and affluence. Many have been completely
cured of thefe diforders by being reduced from a ftate of opulence to labour for
their daily bread. This plainly points out the fources from whence nervous dif-
eafes flow, and the means by which they may be prevented. It is abfolutely im-
poffible to enjoy health, where the perfpiration is not duly carried on; but that
can never be the cafe where exercife is negleded. When the matter which ought
to be thrown oft' by perfpiration is retained in the body, it vitiates the humours,,
and occafions the gout, fevers, rheumatifm, &c. Exercife alone would prevent
many of thofe difeafes which cannot be cured, and would remove others where
medicine proves ineftedual.
No piece of indolence hurts the health more than the modern ciiftom of Lying
a-bed too long in a morning. This is the general pradlice in great towns- The
inhabitants of cities feldom rife before nine or ten o’clock; but the morning, is
undoubtedly the beft time for exercife, while the ftomach is empty, and the body
refrefhed with fteep- Belides,. the morning air braces and ftrengthens the nerves,,
and, in feme meafure, anfwers the purpofe of a cold bath. Let any one who has
been accuftomed to lie a-bed late, rife by fix or feven, fpend a couple of hours in
walking, riding, or any a6live diverfion without doors, and he will find his fpirits
cheerful and ferene through the day, his appetite keen, and his body braced and
ftrengthened. Cuftom foon renders early rifing agreeable, and nothing contributes
more to the prefervation of health. The inadtive are continually complaining of
pains of the ftomach, flatulencies, indigeftions, &c. Thefe complaints, which
pave the way to many others, are not to be removed by medicine : they can
only be cured by a vigorous courfe of exercife, to. which they feldom fail to
yield.
Exercife, if poftible, ought always to be taken in the open air. When that;
cannot be done, various methods may be contrived for exercifing the body withini
172 A KEY TO PHYMC
doors. It is not neceffary to adhere ftridlly to any particular kind of exercife. The
beft way is to take them by turns, and to ufe that longed which is mod fuitable to
the drength and conditution. Thofe kinds of exercife which give adtion to mod
of the bodily organs, are always to be preferred, as walking, running, riding, digging,
fwimming, andfuch like. It is much .to be regretted, that adtive and manly diver-
dons are now' fo little pradtifed. Diverdons make people take more exercife than
they otherw'ife w'ould do, and are of the greated fervice to fuch as are not under the
neceldty of labouring for their bread. As adtive diverdons lofe ground, thofe of a
fedentary kind feem to prevail. Sedentary diverdons are of no other ufe but to
confume time. Indead of relieving the mind, they often require more thought than
either dudy or budnefs. Every thing that induces people to fit dill, unlefs it be
feme necedary employment, ought to be avoided.
The diverdons which afford the bed exercife are hunting, diooting, playing at
cricket, bowls, &c. Thefe exercife the limbs, promote perfpiration, and the other
fecretions. They likewife drengthen the lungs, and give drmnefs and agility to the
\vhole body. Such as can, ought to fpend two or three hours a-day on horfeback
;
thofe who cannot ride, diould employ the fame time in walking. Exercife fhould
never be continued too long. Over-fatigue prevents the benedt of exercife, and
indead of drengthening the body tends to weaken it. Every man diould lay himfelf
under dome fort of necedity to take exercife. Indolence, like other vices, when in-
dulged, gains ground, and at length becomes agreeable. Hence many who were
fond of exercife in the early part of life, become quite averfe from it afterwards.
This is the cafe of mod hypochondriac and gouty people, which renders their dif-
cafes in a great meafure incurable. Indolence not only occadons difeafes, and
renders men ufelefs to fociety, but promotes all manner of vice. To fay a man is
lazy, is little better than calling him vicious. The mind, if not engaged in dome
ufeful purfuit, is condantly in qued of ideal pleafures, or impreded with the ap-
.prehendon of fome imaginary evil. From thefe fources proceed mod of the miferies
of mankind. Certainly man was never intended to be idle. Inaftivity frudrates
the very dedgn of his creation: whereas an adtive life is the bed guardian of virtue,
and the greated prefervative of health.
Of sleep.
SLEEP, as w'ell as food, ought to be duly regulated. Too little deep weakens
the nerves, exhaufts the fpirits, and occadons difeafes; and too much renders the
mind dull, the body grofs, and difpofes to apoplexies, lethargies, and other com-
plaints of a dmilar nature. A medium ought therefore to be obferved ; but this
is not eafy to dx. Children requipe more deep than grown perfons, the laborious
than
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 17S
than the idle, and fuch as eat and drink freely than thofe who live abftemioufly.
RefideSj.the real quantity of ileep cannot be meafured by time, as one perfon will
be more refrelhed by five or fix hours fleep than another by eight or ten. Chil-
dren may always be allowed to take as much fleep as they pleafe; but, for adults,
fix or feven hours are certainly fufficient, and no one ought to exceed eight. Thofe
who lie a-bed more than eight hours may {lumber, but they can be hardly faid to
fleep ;
fuch generally tofs and dream away the fore part of tije night, fink to reft
towards morning, and doze till noon. The beft way to make fleep found and re-
frefliing is to rife betimes. The cuftom of lying a-bed for nine or ten hours, not
only makes the fleep lefs refrefliing, but weakens the conftitution. Nature points
out night as the proper feafon for fleep. Nothing more certainly deftroys the con-
ftitution than night-watching. It is a great pity that a practice fo deftruftive to
health fliould be fo much in fafliion. How quickly the want of reft in due feafon
will blaft the moll blooming complexion, or ruin the beft conftitution, is evident
from the gbaftly countenances of thofe who, as the phrafe is, turn day into night,
and night into day. To make fleep refrefliing, the following things are requifite:
Firft, to take fufficient exercife in the open air; to avoid ftrong tea or coffee; next,
to eat a light fupper; and laftly, to lie down with a mind as cheerful and ferene
as poffible.
It is certain that too much exercife will prevent fleep, as well as too little. We
feldom, however, hear the active and laborious complain of reftlefs nights. It is
the indolent and flothful who generally have thefe complaints. Is it any wonder
that a bed of down fliould not be refrefliing to a perfon who fits all day in an eafy
chair? A great part of the pleafure of life conlifts in alternate reft and motion ;
but they who negledt the latter can never relifli the former. The labourer enjoys
more true luxury in plain food and found fleep, than is to be found in fumptuous
tables and downy pillows, where exercife is wanting. That light fuppers caufc
found fleep, is true even to a proverb. Many perfons, if they exceed the leafl at
that meal, are fure to have uneafy nights ;
and, if they fail afleep, the load and
oppreflion on their ftomach and fpirits occafion frightful dreams, broken and
difturbed repofe, the night-mare, &c. Were the fame perfons to go to bed with
a light fupper, or fit up till that meal was pretty well digefted, they would enjoy
found fleep, and rife refrelhed and cheerful. There are indeed fome people who
cannot fleep unlefs they have fome folid food at night ; but this does not imply
the neceffity of a heavy fupper.
Nothing more certainly difturbs our repofe than anxiety. When the mind is
not at eafe, one feldom enjoys found fleep. That greateft of human bleflings flies
the wretched, and vifits the happy, the cheerful, and the gay. This is a fufficient
No. 12. Y y reafon
174 A KEY TO PHYSIC
reafon why every man fliould endeavour to be as eafy in his mind as poffible when
he goes to reft. Many, by indulging grief and anxious thought, have banidied
found fteep fo long, that they could never afterwards enjo}^ it. Sleep, when taken
in the fore part of the night, is generally reckoned moft refrelliing. Whether this
be the eftedl ot habit or not is hard to fay ;
but, as moft people are accuftomed
to go early to bed when young, it may be prefumed that deep, at this feafon, will
prove moft refreihing to them ever after. Whether the fore part of the night be
bcft for deep or not, lurely the fore part of the day is fitteft both for bufinefs and
amufement; and we hardly ever find an early-rifer who does not enjoy a good
ftato of health.
Experience proves that, the more a perfon deeps, the more he is inclined to deep:
if in the morning we deep an hour beyond our cuftom, the confequence is, that
we diall be dull and heavy all the day; and, as to thefe fadts, there are fome very
remarkable.—A youth in Germany, of immenfe wealth, was fummoned by his
prince to take up a title of nobility; on which occafion he drank to fuch an excefs,
that the prince, in order to cure him of fuch a fcandalous vice, had him carried
into a dark and remote place, where he dept three days and three nights ;
for,
whenever he awoke, believing it to be the middle of the nisht, he betook himfelf
to deep again. —The Memoirs of the Academy of Sciences at Paris mention a deep
of two months, caufed by a catalepfy, a difeafe by which the patient is inftantly
rendered as immoveable as a ftatue. —Samuel Chilton, a labourer in Somerfetdiire,
fell, and without any vifible caufe, into a profound deep, out of which no means
could recover him, till, after a month’s time, he arofe of himfelf. His inother,
fearing he would be ftarved in that fullen humour, as fhe called it, put bread and
cheefe and fmall beer by him, and it was daily fpent. On the ninth of April,
1696,
he was feized with a like deepy fit, which lafted till the feventh of Auguft,
when he awoke, without knowing he had dept above a night. He occafionally
ufed the food fet by him, and had evacuations, till, about the tenth week, his
jaws feemed to be fet, and his teeth clinched fo clofe that his mouth could not be
opened; and all the nouridiment he received, during thefe feven weeks, was about
three pints of tent infinuated through a cavity in one of his teeth. He had made
water but once, and never had a ftool all the time. On the 17th of Auguft, lft97,
his fit returned ; and Dr. Oliver, the author of the memoir, in order to try whe-
ther there might not be fome impofture in this extraordinary phenomenon, went
to the houfe; he put his mouth to his ear, and called him feveral times, by his
name, as loud as he could ;
pulled him by the dioulders, pinched his node, ftop-
ped his mouth and node at the fame time ;
lifted up his eye-lids, when he found
the balls drawn up under the brows ;
he, farther, held a phial of fpirit of fal ammo-
niac
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 175
niac under one noftril ;
that producing no effed, he poured up bis nofe near a
half-ounce bottle, and the fpirit, he fays, being drawn from quicklime, was almoil
as hot as fire itfelf. Not fatisfied with this, he crammed the fame noftril with pow-
der of white hellebore : all thefe experiments producing no other effed than to
make his eyes ftiiver a little. Dr. Oliver left him, convinced that he was really
afieep. A few days after, an apothecary drew fome ounces of blood from his arm,
and bound up the orifice, without his making the leaft motion : likewife, a gentle-
man, ,
though fomewhat indifcreetly, ran a pin into his arm, up to the very bone
;
and in this ftate of infenfible fteep he continued till the nineteenth of November ;
during all this time he ate and evacuated, but never fouled his bed. The above
inftance of deep is to be seen at large in Jones’s Abridgement of the Philofophical
Tranfadions, vol. v.
Of dreams.
SCARCELY any part of nature is lefs open to our obfervation than the human
mind in this ftate. The dreamer himfelf cannot well obferve the manner in which
dreams arife or difappear to. him. When he awakes, he cannot recoiled the cir-
cumftances of his dreams with fufficient accuracy. Were we to watch over him
with the moft vigilant attention, we could not perceive with certainty what emotions
aae excited in his mind, or what thoughts pafs through it, during his deep. But,
even though we could afcertain thefe phenomena, many other difficulties would
ftill remain. What parts of a human being are adive, what dormant, when he
dreams ? Why does he not always dream while adeep ? Or why dreams he at all
Do any circumftances in our conftitution, fituation, and peculiar charader, deter-
mine the nature of our dreams ? We may lay before the reader fuch fads^ as have
been afcertained concerning dreaming, and the moft plaufible conjedures that have
been offered to explain thofe particulars, about w'hich we can only conjedure, or
have at leaft hitherto obtained nothing more certain than conjedure.
In dreaming, we are not confcious of being adeep. This is well known from a
tlioufand circumftances. When awake, we often recoiled our dreams ;
and we
remem ber' on fuch occafions, that, while thofe dreams were paffing through our
minds, it never occurred to us that we were feparated by deep from the adive
world. We are often obferved to ad and talk in dreaming as if we were bufily
engaged in the intercourfe of focial life. In dreaming we do not confider ourfelves
as witneffmg or bearing a part in a fiditious fcene ;
we feem not to be in a fimilar
fituation with the adors in a dramatic performance, or the fpedators before whom,
they exhibit, but engaged in the bufinefs of real life. All the varieties of thought
that pafs through our minds when awake may alfo occur in dreams ;
all the images
3 which
176 A KEY to PHYSIC
'
which imagination prefents in the former ftatefhe is alfo able to call up in the latter
all the fame emotions may be excited, and we are often a6luated by equal violence
of palTion ;
none of the tranfa6lions in which we are capable of engaging while
awake is impoffible in dreams : in Ihort, our range of aftion and obfervation is
equally wide in one ftate as in the other ;
and, while dreaming, we are not fenfible
of any dillin6lion between our dreams and the events and tranfa6lions in w-hich we
are actually concerned in our intercourfe with the world.
Though in dreams imagination appears to be free from all reftraint, and indulges
in the moft wanton freaks, yet it is generally agreed, that the imaginary tranfa6lions
of the dreamer bear always feme relation to his particular character in the world,
his habits of a61ion, and the circumftances of his life. The lover, we know,
dreams of his miftrefs, and the mifer of his money ; the philofopher renews his re-
fearches in deep often with the fame pain and fatigue as w hen awake ;
and even-
the merchant, at times, returns to balance his books, and compute the profits of
an adventure, when numbering on his pillo w. And not only do the more general
circumftances of a perfon’s life influence his dreams; his paflious and habits are
nearly the fame when afleep as when awake. <A perfon whofe habits of life are vir-
tuous, does not in his dreams plunge into a feries of crimes ; nor are the vicious
reformed when they pafs into this imaginary world. The choleric man finds him-
felf offended by flight provocations as w'ell in his dreams as in his ordinary inter-
courfe with the world, and a mild temper continues pacific in deep. The charac-
ter of a perfon’s dreams is influenced by his circumftances when awake in a dill
more unaccountable manner. Certain dreams ufually arife in the mind after a per-
fon has been in certain fituations. Dr. Beattie relates, that he once, after riding
thirty miles in a high wind, pafl’ed a part of the fucceeding night in dreams beyond
defcription terrible. The ftate of a perfon’s health, and the manner in which the
vital funftions are carried on, have a conflderable influence in determining the cha-
ra6ter of dreams. After too full a meal, or after eating of an unufual fort of food,
a perfon has always dreams of a certain nature. In dreaming, the mind for the moft
part carries on no intercourfe through the fenfes with furrounding obje6ts. Touch
a perfon gently who is afleep, he feels not the impreftion. You may awake him
by a fmart blow ;
but, when the ftroke is not fufficiently violent to effeft that, he
remains infenfible of it. We fpeak foftly befide a perfon afleep without fearing
that he overhears us. His eye-lids are fliut; and, even though light fhould fall upon
the eye-ball, yet ftill his powers of vifion are not awakened to active exertion, un-
lefs the light be fo ftrong as to roufe him from deep. He is infenfible both to
fweet and difagreeable fmells. It is not eafy to try whether his organs of tafte retain
their aftivity, without awakening him ; yet from analogy it may be prefumed
that
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 177
that tbefc too are ina6tive. With refpe6t to the circumftances here eiiiunerated, it
is indifferent whether a perfon be dreaming or buried' in deep.
Yet there is one remarkable fact concerning dreaming which may seem to con-
tradict what has been here afferted. In dreams, w'e are liable not only to fpeak aloud
in confequence of the fuggeftions of imagination, but even to get up, and w'alk
about, and engage in little enterprifes, without awaking. Now, as we are in this
inftance fo aClive, it feetirs that we cannot be then infenfible of the prefence of fur-
rounding objects. The fleep-walker is really fenfible, in a certain degree, of the pre-
fence of the objects around him ;
but he does not attend to them with all their cir-
cumftances, nor do they excite in him the fame emotions as if he were awake. He
feels no terror on the top of a houfe, or the brink of a precipice ;
and, in confe-
quence of being free from fear, he isalfo without danger in fuch a fituation, unlefs
fuddenly awaked. This is one of the moft inexplicable phenomena of dreaming.
There is alfo another faCt not quite confonant with w'hat has been above advanced.
It is faid, that in fleep a perfon w'ill continue to hear the noife of a cataraCl in the
neighbourhood, or regular ffrokes with a hammer, or any fimilar found fufficiently
loud, and continued uninterruptedly from before the time of his falling afleep.
We know not whether he awakes on the fudden ceffation of the noife. This faCl
is afferted on fufficient evidence : it is curious. Even when awake,^ if very deeply
intent on any piece of ftudy, or clofely occupied in bufinefs, the found of a clock
ftriking in the neighbourhood, or the beating of a drum, will efcape us unnoticed ;
and it is therefore the more furprifmg that we fliould thus continue fenfible to
founds w'hen afleep. Not only do a perfon’s general character, habits of life, and
Hate of health, influence his dreams ;
but thofe concerns in which he has been
moft deeply interefted during the preceding day, and the views which have
arifen moft frequently to his imagination, very often afford the fubjeCls of his
dreams. When I look forward w'ith anxious expe^ation towards any future event,
I am likely to dream either of the difappointment or the gratification of my w'iftieSi
Have I been engaged through the day, either in bufinefs or amufements which I
have found exceedingly agreeable, or in away in which I have been extremely un-
happy, either my. happinefs or my mifery is likely to be renewed in my dreams.
Though dreams have been regarded among alinoft all nations through the world,,
at leaft in fome periods of their hiftory, as prophetic of future events, yet it does
not appear that this populat opinion has been eftabliflied on good grounds. Chrif-
tianity, indeed, teaches us to believe, that the Supreme Being may, and aClually
does, operate on our minds, and influence at times the determinations of our rvill,
without making us fenfible of the reftraint to which we are thus fubjeCted. And,
in the fame manner, no doubt, the fuggeftions which arife to us in dreams may be
No. 12. Z z. produced.
17S A KEY TO PHYSIC
produced. The imaginary tranfadlions in which we are then engaged, maybe
fuch as are adiually to occupy us in life; the ftrange and feemingly incoherent
appearances which are then prefented to the mind’s eye, may allude to fome events
which are to befal ourfelvcs or others. It is, therefore, by no means impoffible,
or inconfiftent with the general analogy of nature, that dreams iliould have a refpeH
to futurity. We have no reafon to regard the dreams which are related in the Holy
Scriptures to have been prophetic of future events as not infpired by heaven, or
to laugh at the idea of a prophetic dream as abfurd or ridiculous.
We know of no other fa6ls that have been fully afcertained concerning dreaming.
But we are by no means fufficiently acquainted with this important phenomenon in
the hiftory of the mind. We cannot tell by what laws of our conftitution we are
thus liable to be fo frequently engaged in imaginary tranfadtions, nor what are the
particular means by which the delufion is accompliflied. The delufion is indeed
remarkably fti ong. One will fometimes have a book prefented to him in a dream,
and fancy that he reads, and adlually enter into the nature of the compofition be-
-fore him, and even remember, after he awakes, what he knows that he only
fancied himfelf reading. Can this be delufion? If delufion, how or for what
purpofes is it produced? The mind, it would appear, does not, in deep, be-
come ina6live like the body ;
or at leaft is not always ina6live while we are afleep.
When we do not dream, the mind muft either be inadtive, or the connedlion be-
tween the mind and the body muft be confidered as in fome manner fufpended i
and, when we dream, the mind, though it probably a6ls in concert with the body,
yet does not act in the fame manner as when we are awake. It feems to be clouded
or bewildered, in confequence of being deprived for a time of the fervice of the
fenfes. Imagination becomes more aftive and more capricious : and all the other
powers, efpecially judgment and memory, become difordered and irregular in
their operation. '
Various theories have been propofed to explain what appears here moft inexpli-
cable. The ingenious Mr. Baxter, in his treatife on the Immateriality of the Hu-
man Soul, endeavours to prove that dreams are produced by the agency of fome
fpiritual beings^ who either amufe or employ themfelves ferioufly in engaging man-
kind in all thofe imaginary tranfadlions with which they are employed in dreaming.
This theory, however, is far from being plaufible. It leads us entirely beyond
the limits of our knowledge. It requires us to believe without evidence. It is
unfupported by any analogy. It creates difficulties ftill more inexplicable than
thofe which it has been propofed to remove. Till it appear that our dreams can-
not poffibly be produced without the interference of other fpiritual agents, pof-
feffing fuch influence over our minds as to deceive us with fancied joys, and involve
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 179
us in imaginary ,afBi6tions, we cannot reafonably refer them to fuch a caufe. Befides,
from the fads which have been dated as well known concerning dreams, it appears
that their nature depends both on the date of the human body and on that of the
mind. But, were they owing to the agency of other fpiritual beings, how could they
be influenced by the date of the body? Thofe mud be a curious fet of fpiritual
beings who depend in fuch a manner on the date of our corporeal frame. Better
not to allow them exidence at all, than to place them in fuch a dependance.
Wolfius, and after him M. Formey, have fuppofed, that dreams never arife in
the mind except in confequence of fome of the organs of fenfation having been
previoudy excited. Either the ear or the eye, or the organs of touching, lading,
or fmelling, communicate information, fomehow, in a tacit, fecret, manner; and
thus partly roufe its faculties from the lethargy in which they are buried in deep,
and engage them in a feries of confufed and imperfedf exertions. But what pafles
in dreams is fo very different from all that we do when awake, that it is impoflible
for the dreamer himfelf to didinguidi whether his pawers of fenfation perform any
part on the occadon. It is not neceffary that imagination be always excited by fen-
fation. Fancy, even when we are awake, often wanders from the prefent fcene.
Abfence of mind is incident to the dudious ;
the poet and the mathematician many
times forget what they are. We cannot difcover, from any thing that a perfon in
dreaming difplays to the obfervation of others, that his organs of fenfation take a
part in the imaginary tranfa6tions in which he is employed. In thofe indances, in-
deed, in whu:h perfons adeep are faid to hear founds ;
the founds which they hear
are faid alfo to influence, in fome manner, the nature of their dreams. But fuch
indances are fingular. Since then it appears that the perfon who dreams is himfelf
incapable of didinguidiing either during his dreams, or by recollection when awake,
whether any new impreffions are communicated to him in that date by his organs
of fenfation ;
that even by watching over him, and comparing our obfervations of
his circamdances and emotions, in his dreams, with what he recolleCls of them after
awaking, we cannot, except in one or two dngular indances, afcertain this faCt ;
and
that the mind is not incapable of aCting while the organs of fenfation are at red, and
on many occafions refufes to liden to the information which they convey ;
we may,
without hedtation, conclude, that the theory of Wolfius and Formey has been
too.haftily and incautioudy advanced.
Other phyfiologifts tell us, that the mind, when we dream, is in a date of
delirium. Sleep, they fay, is attended with what is called a collapfe of the brain ;
during which either the whole or a part of the nerves of which it confids, are in a
date in which they cannot carry on the ufual intercourfe between the mind and the
organs of fenfation. When the whole of the brain is in this date, we become en-
7 tirel\
180 A KEY TO PHYSIC
tirely unconfcious of cxiftence, and the mind finks into inaftivity : when only apart
of the brain is collapfed, as they term it, we are then neither afleep nor awake, bu|
in a fort of delirium between the two. This theory, like the laft-mentioned, fup-
pofos the mind incapable of aViling without the help of fenfation : it fuppofes that
we know the nature of a ftate of which we cannot afcertain the phenomena ;
it alfo
Gontradiftsa known fa6f,in.reprefenting dreams as confufed images of things around
us, not fanciful combinations of things not exifting together in nature or in human
life. We mull confider it likewife, therefore, as a bafelefs fabric.
Infiead of the attendant fpirits watching over our bodies, and inciting us to
good or evil in our dreams, may we not more rationally fuppofe, that thefe
incitements, or rather exertions towards real and fenfible actions, are produced
by the loul or fpirit w'ithin us, w hich, being immortal, never fleeps ;
but which
rather, during that paffive ftate of the body, alfumes an endeavour to aft-
w'ithout it, or to efcape from it, as from a prifon, wherein it is reftrained to
certain limits, and obliged to aft under the will of its keeper. This furely
will beft explain the fafts attending fleep-w'alkers, who, in the darkeft nights
vifit different apartments, walk up and down ftairs, lock and unlock doors,
open window's, and crawl over the roofs of houfes, with the utmoft eafe and
celerity ;
which, if the perfons were awake, would be impoffible. May we not
likewife attribute to the fame fource, thofe elevated ideas, and fublime com-
politions, which Milton and other celebrated authors have confeffed, were
communicated nightly in their dreams?
It lately happened, that a young gentlemen, about fifteen years of
age, from one of the public fchools, flept in the fame room with me.
He chofe to go to bed early; and, when I came into the fame apartment
about two hours after, he appeared remarkably intent upon his ftudies,
though faft locked in the arms of lleep. I ftood fome time at his bed-fide,
and heard him repeat feveral lines from Homer and Virgil. After this
he» repeated, with a bold and nervous accent, the whole of the He-
brew alphabet : then, turning, feemed to fall into a more compofed fleep.
The next morning at breakfaft I related this cireumftance to the company, in
the prefence of the young gentleman; and all began to commend the great
progrefs he muft have made in his ftudies. The young man inftantly
declared, that, however converfant he might be with Virgil and Homer, he
had never heard the Hebrew alphabet repeated, nor did he ever know the
name of any one of its charafters. —The nature of the conneftion by which the
foul and body are united, feems to be almoft beyond our comprehenfion ;
and,
till we can apply experiment and obfervation in a better manner to this branch of
phyfiology,
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. r«i
phyfiology, it muft undoubtedly remain unknown. To fomething myfterious in
the nature of that connedtion, the delulion produced in dreams is in all pro-
bability owing.
'
Amid this uncertainty with refpe^l to the manner in which our powers of mind
and body perform their functions in dreaming, it is pleafing to find that we can,
however, apply to ufeful purpofes the imperfect knowledge which we have been
able to acquire concerning the feries of phenomena. Our dreams are affedted by
the ftate of our health, by the manner in which w'e have paffed the preceding day,
fey our general habits of life, by the hopes w'hich we moft fondly indulge, and the
fears which prevail moft over our fortitude when we are awake. From recollecting
our dreams, therefore, we may learn to correCt many improprieties in our conduCl;
to refrain from bodily exercifes, or from meats and drinks, that have unfavora-
ble effects on our conftitution; to refift in due time evil habits that are ftealing
upon us ; and to guard againft hopes and fears which detach us from our proper
concerns, and unfit us for the duties of life. Inftead of thinking what our dreams
may forebode, we may, with much better reafon, refleCt by what they have been
occafioned, and look back to thofe circumftances in our paft life to which they are
owing. The deep of innocence and health is found and refrefliing ;
their dreams
delightful and pleafing. A diftempered body, and a polluted or perturbed mind,
are haunted in fleep with frightful, impure, and unpleafing, dreams.
Of intemperance.
It is univerfally agreed, that temperance and eitercife are the tw'o beft phyfi-
cians in the w’orld, and that, if thefe were duly regarded, there would be little oc-
cafion for any other. Temperance mayjujlly be called the parent of health ; yet
numbers of mankind aCt as if they thought difeafes and death too flow in their pro-
grefs, and, by intemperance and debauch, feem, as it were, to folicit their approach.
The danger of intemperance appears from the very conftruCtion of the human body.
Health depends on the ftate of the folids and fluids which fits them for the due
performance of the vital functions ;
and, while thefe go regularly on, we are
found and well ;
but whatever difturbs them neceffarily impairs health. Intem-
perance never fails to diforder the whole animal osconomy ;
it hurts the digeftion,
relaxes the nerves, renders the different fecretions irregular, vitiates the humours,
and occafions numberlefs difeafes.
The analogy between the nourifhment of plants and animals affords a ftriking
proof of the danger of intemperance. Moifture and manure greatly promote ve-
getation ;
yet an over-quantity of either will entirely deftroy it. The beft things
become hurtful, nay deftruCtive, when carried to Cxcefs. Hence we learn, that
No. 12. 3 A the
A KEY TO PHYSIC
182
A-
the higheft degree of human wifdom confifts in regulating our appetites and paf-
lions fo as to avoid all extremes. It is this chiefly which entitles us to the cha-
racter of rational beings. The (lave of appetite will ever be the difgrace of human
nature.—The Supreme Being hath endued us with various paffions for the pro-
pagation of the fpecies, the prefervation of the individual, &c. Intemperance is
the abufe of thefe paffions ;
and moderation confilts in the proper regulation of
them. Men, not contented with fatisfying the Ample calls of Nature, create arti-
ficial wants, and are perpetually in fearch of fomething that may gratify them ;;
but imaginary wants can never be gratified. Miture is content with little ; bid
luxury knows no bounds. Hence the epicure, the drunkard, and the debauchee,
feldom Hop their career, till their money, or their conftitution, fails : then, indeed,
they generally fee their error when too late.
It is impoffible to lay down fixed rules with regard to diet, on account of the
different conftitutions of mankind. The mofi; ignorant perfon, how’ever, certainly
knows what is meant by excefs ;
and it is in the power of every man, if he choofes,,
to avoid it. The great rule of diet is to ftudy fimplicity. Nature delights in the
moft plain and Ample food ; and every animal, except man, follows her dictates.
Man alone riots at large, and ranfacks the whole creation in queft of luxuries, to
his own deftruClion. An elegant writer of the lafl age fpeaks thus of intemperance
in diet ;
“ For my partj when I behold a fafliionable table fet out in all its mag-
nificence, I fancy that I fee gouts and dropfies, fevers and lethargies, with other
innumerable diftempers, lying in ambufcade among the difhes.” Nor is intem-
perance in other things lefs deftruClive than in diet. How quickly does the im-
moderate purfuit of carnal pleafures, or the abufe of intoxicating liquors, ruin the
befl conftitution ! Indeed thefe vices generally go hand in hand. Hence it is that
we fo often behold the votaries of Bacchus and Venus, even before they have ar-
rive at the prime of life, worn out with difeafe, and hafting with fwift pace to an
untimely grave. Did men refleCt on the painful difeafes, and premature deaths,
which are daily occafioned by intemperance, it would be fufficient to make them
fhrink back with horror from the indulgence even of their darling pleafures.
Intemperance does not hurt its votaries alone ;
the innocent too often feel the
direful effeCls of it. How often do we behold the miferable mother, with her
helplefs infants, .pining in want, while the cruel father is indulging his infatiate
appetites ? Families are not only reduced to mifery, but even extirpated, by inr
temperance. Nothing tends fo much to prevent propagation, and to Jhorten the
lives of children, as the intemperance of parents-. The poor man \vho labours all
day, and at night lies down contented with his humble fare, can bpaft a numeri^us
olTspring ;
while his pampered lord, funk in eafe and luxury, often languiffies
without
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 183
without an heir to his ample fortunes. Even ftates and empires feel the influence
of inteniperance, and rife or fall as it prevails. Inftead of mentioning the different
kinds of intemperance, and pointing out their influence upon health, we ffiall onlj,
by way of example, make a few obfervations on one particular fpecies of that vice,
viz. the abufe of intoxicating liquors.
Every aSi of intoxication puts Nature to the expenfe of a fever, in order to
difcharge the poifonous draughts. When this is repeated almoft every day, it is eafy
to forefee the confequences. That conftitution muft be ftrong indeed, which is able
long to hold out under a daily fever ! But fetters occajioued hy drinking do not
fdways go off in a day ; they frequently end in an infiammation of the hreajt,
liver, or brain, and produce fatal effeHs. Though the drunkard ffiould not
fall by an acute difeafe, he feldom efcapes thofe of a^ chronic kind. Intoxica-
ting liquors, when ufed to cxcefs, weaken the bowels, and fpoil the digeftion j
they deftroy the power of the nerves, and occafion paralytic and convulfive dif-
orders : they hkewife heat and inflame the blood, deftroy its balfamic quality,
render it unfit for circulation, and for the nourilliment of the body. Hence ob-
ftru6lions, atrophies, dropfies, and confumptions of the lungs. Thefe are the
common ways in which drunkards make their exit. Difeafes of this kind, when
brought on by hard drinking, feldom admit of a cure. Many people injure their
health by drinking, who feldom get drunk. The continual habit of foaking, as
it is called, though its effe6ts be not fo violent, is not lefs pernicious. When the
velfels are kept conftantly full and upon the ftretch, the different digeftions can
neither be duly performed, nor the humours properly prepared. Hence moft
people of this charadter are aflli6led with the gout, the gravel, ulcerous fores in
the legs, &c. If thefe diforders do not appear, they are feized with low fpirits,
hypochondriacal affe6liohs, and other fymptoms of indigeftion.
Confumptions are now fo common, that it is thought one-tenth of the inhabitants
of great towns die of that difeafe. Hard drinking is no doubt one of the caufes to
which we muft impute the increafe of confumptions. The great quantities of vifeid
malt-liquor drunk by the common people of England cannot fail to render the
blood fizy and unfit for circulation ;
from whence proceed obftru6lions and in-
flammations of the lungs. There are few great ale-drinkers who are not phthifical;
nor is that to be wondered at, confidering the glutinous and almoft indigeftible
nature of ftrong ale. Thofe who drink ardent fpirits or ftrong wines run ftill
greater hazard ;
thefe liquors heat and inflame the blood, and tear the tender'
veffels of the lungs in pieces; yet, fo great is the confumption of them in this coun-
try,* that one would almoft be induced to think the inhabitants lived upon them.
The habit of drinking proceeds frequently from misfortunes in life. The mifera-
ble
184 A KEY TO PHYSIC
ble fly to it for relief. It affords them indeed a temporary eafe. But alas ! this
folace is fhort-lived ; and, when it is over, the fpirits fink as much below their
ufual tone as they had before been raifed above it. Hence a repetition of the dofe
becomes neceffary ;
and every frefli dofe makes way for another, till the unhappy
wretch becomes a Have to the bottle, and at length falls a facrifice to what at firft
perhaps was taken only as a medicine. No man is fo deje6led as the drunkard
when his debauch is gone off. Hence it is, that thofe who have the greateft flow
of fpirits while the glafs circulates freely, are of all others the mofl melancholy
when fober, and often put an end to their own miferable exiftence in a fit of
fpleen or ill humour.
Drunkennefs not only proves dejlru^ive to health, hut likewife to the faculties
of the mind. It is ftrange that creatures who value themfelves on account ©f a
fuperior degree of reafon to that of brutes fhould take pleafure in finking fo far
below them. Were fuch as voluntarily deprive themfelves of the ufe of reafon
to continue ever after in that condition, it would feem but a juft punifliment; and,
though this be not the confequence of one a6l of intoxication, it feldom fails
to fucceed a courfe of it. By a habit of drinking, the greateft genius is often re-
duced to a mere idiot. Intoxication is peculiarly hurtful to young perfons. It
heats their blood, impairs their ftrength, and obftru6ls their growth ;
befides, the
frequent ufe of ftrong liquors in the early part of life deftroys any benefit that
might arife from them afterwards. Thofe who make a praBice of drinking ge-
nerous liquors rchen young, cannot expeB to reap any benefit from them as a cor-
dial in the decline of life. Drunkennefs is not only in itfelf a moft. abominable
vice, but is an inducement to many others. There is hardly any crime fo horrid
that the drunkard will not perpetrate for the love of liquor. We have known mo-
thers fell their children’s clothes, the food that they fhould have eaten, and after-
wards even the infants themfelves, in order to purchafe the accurfed draught.
It is amazing that our improvements in arts, learning, and politenefs, have not
put the barbarous cuftom of drinking to excefs out of fafhion. It is indeed lefs
common in South Britain than it was formerly : but it ftill prevails very much in
the North, where this relic of barbarity is miftaken for hofpitality. In Ireland, no
man is fuppofed to entertain his guefts well, who does not make them drunk.
Forcing people to drink, is certainly the greateft piece of rudenefs that any man
can be guilty of. Bravado, complaifance, or mere good-nature, may induce a
man to take his glafs, if urged to it, at a time when he might as well take poifon.
The cuftom of drinking to excefs has long been out of fafhion in France; and, as
it begins to lofe ground among the politer part of the Englifh, we hope it wdll foon
be banifhed from every part of the united kingdom.
5 Of
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCE! 185
Of the passions.
THE paflions have great influence both in the caufe and cure of difeafes. How
the mind aflTedts the body, will, in all probability, ever remain a fecret. It is
fufficient for us to know, that there is eftablifhed a reciprocal influence betwixt
the mental and corporeal parts, and that whatever injures the one diforders the
other.
Of Anger.—The paffion of anger ruffles the mind, diftorts the countenance,
hurries on the circulation of the blood, and diforders the whole vital and animal
fundlions. It often occafions fevers, and other acute difeafes, and fometimes even
fudden death. This paffion is peculiarly hurtful to the delicate, and thofe of weak
nerves. I have known fuch perfons frequently lofe their lives by a violent fit of
anger, and would advife them to guard againft the excefs of this paffion vvith the
utmoft care. It is not indeed always in our power to prevent being angry ;
but
we may furely avoid harbouring refentment in our breafl. Refentment preys upon
the mind, and occafions the moll obftinate chronical diforders, which gradually
wafte the conftitution. Nothing fhows true greatnefs of mind more than to forgive
injuries: it promotes the peace of fociety, and greatly conduces to our own eafe,
health, and felicity. Such as value health fhould avoid violent gufts of anger as
they would the moll deadly poifon. Neither ought they to indulge refentment,
but endeavour at all times to keep their minds calm and ferene. Nothing tends
fo much to the health of the body as a conftant tranquillity of blind. Add to this,
the indecency of extravagent anger ;
how it renders us, wliilft it lafts, the fcorn
and fport of all about us, of which it leaves us, when it ceafes, fenfible and alliam-
ed ;
the inconveniences and irretrievable mifcondudt into which our irrafcibility
has fometimes betrayed us ;
the friendfiiips it has loft us ;
the diftreffes and em-
barraffments in which we have been involved by it, and the fore repentance which
on one account or other it always cofts us.
Phyficians and naturalifts aftbrd inftances of very extraordinary effedls of this
paffion.—Borrichius cured a woman of an inveterate tertian ague, which had baffled
the art of phyfic, by putting the patient in a furious fit of anger. Valeriola made
ufe of the fame means, with the like fuccefs, in a quartan ague.—The fame paffion
has been equally falutary to paralytic, gouty, and even dumb, perfons; to which
laft it has fometimes given the ufe of fpeech. Etmuller gives divers inftances of
very Angular cures wrought by anger ;
among others, he mentions a perfon laid
up in the gout, who, being provoked by his phyfician, flew upon him, and was
cured. It is true, the remedy is fomewhat dangerous in the application, when a
patient does not happen to ufe it with moderation. We meet with feveral in-
No. 12. SB fiances
186 A KEY TO PHYSIC
ftances of princes to whom it has proved mortal; for example, Valentinian the
Firft, Wenceflas, Matthias Corvinus king of Hungary, and others. There are
alfo inftances wherein it has produced the epilepfy, jaundice, cholera-morbus,
diarrhoea, &c. In fa6l, this paffion is of fuch a nature, that it quickly throws
the whole nervous fyftem into preternatural commotions, by a violent ilridlure o^
the nervous and mufcular parts; and furprifingly augments not only the fyftoie of
the heart and of its contiguous veffels, but alfo the tone of the fibrous parts in
the whole body. It is alfo certain that this paffion, by the fpafmodic ftridlure it
produces in the parts, exerts its power principally on the ftoraach and inteflines^
which are highly nervous and membranous parts ;
whence the fymptoms are more
dangerous, in proportion to the greater confent of the ftomach and inteftines with
the other nervous parts, and almoft with the whole body. The unhappy influence
of anger, iikewife, on the biliary and hepatic dudls, is very furprifing ;
fince, by an
intenfe conllridlion of thefe, the liver is not only rendered fcirrhous, but ftones alfo
are often generated in the gall-bladder and biliary du6ts; thefe accidents have
fcarcely any other origin than an obftrudlion of the free motion and efflux of the
bile, by means of this violent ftridlure. From fuch a ftridlure of thefe dudls like-
wife proceeds the jaundice, which in procefs of time lays a foundation for calculous
concretions in the gall-bladder. Laftly, by increafing the motion of the fluids, or,
the fpafms of the fibrous parts, by means of anger, a larger quantity of blood is
propelled with an impetus to certain parts ;
whence it happens that they are too
much diflended, and the orifices of the veins diftributed there are too much open-
ed. It is evident from experience, that anger has a great tendency to excite hae-
morrhages, either from the nofe, the aperture of the pulmonary artery, the veins of
the anus ;
or, in women, from the uterus, efpecially in thofe previoufly accuftomed
and difpofed to fuch evacuations.
Of Fear.—The influence of fear, both in occafioning and aggravating difeafes,
is very great. No man ought to be blamed for a decent concern about life; but
too great a defire to preferve it, is often the caufe of lofing it. Fear and anxiety,
by depreffing the fpirits, not only difpofe us to difeafes, but often render thofe
difeafes fatal which an undaunted mind would overcome. Sudden fear has gene-
rally violent effedls. Epileptic fits, and other convulfive diforders, are often oc-
cafioned by it. Hence the danger of that pradtice, fo common among young
people, of frightening one another. Many have loft their lives, and others have
been rendered miferable, by frolics of this kind. It is dangerous to tamper with
the human paflions. The mind may eafily be thrown into fuch diforder as never
again to a6l with regularity.
But
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES, 187
But the gradual effe6ts of fear prove moft hurtful. The conftant dread of fome
future evil, by dwelling upon the mind, often oecafions the very evil itfelf. Hence
it comes to pafs, that fo many die of thofe very difeafes of which they long had a
dread, or which bad been impreffed on their minds by fome accident or foolifh
predidlion. This, for example, is often the cafe w'ith women in child-bed. Many
of thofe who die in that fituation are impreffed with the notion of their death a
long time before it happens; and there is reafon to believe, that this impreffion is
often the caufe of it. The methods taken to imprefs the minds of women with
the apprehenfions of the great pain and peril of child-birth, are very hurtful. Few
women die in labour, though many lofe their lives after it; which may be thus ac-
counted for. A woman after delivery, finding herfelf weak and exhaufled, imme-
diately apprehends flie is in danger; and thfs fear feldom fails to ofirufft the ne-
ceffary evacuations upon which her recovery depends. Thus the fex often fall a
facrifice to their own imaginations, when there would be no danger, did they appre-
hend none. It feldom happens, when two or three women, in a great towp, die in
child-bed, but their death is followed by many others. Every woman of their ac-
quaintance who is with child dreads the fame fate, and the difeafe becomes epide-
mical by the mere force of imagination. This fliould induce pregnant women to
defpifefear, and by all means to avoid thofe tattling goffips who are continually
buzzing in their ears the misfortunes of others. Every thing that may in the leafi
alarm; a patient, or a child-bed woman, ought with the greateft care to be guarded
againfl.
In general, the effedls of terror are a contradlion of the fmall velfels and a repul-
fion of the blood in the large and internal ones ;
hence proceed a fuppreffion of
perfpiration, a general oppreffion, trembling, and anguifh of the heart and lungs,
overcharged with blood. Frights often occafion incurable difeafes, as epilepfy,
ftupor, madnefs, &c. In acute difeafes, they have evidently killed many, by the
agitation into which they have thrown the fpirits, already too much diforderedi
We have alfo accounts of perfons abfolutely killed by terrors when in perfedt health
at the time of receiving the fliock from them: people ordered to be executed, but
with private orders for a reprieve, have expired at the block without a wmund.
Out of many inftances of the fatal effedts of fear recorded in writers, the follow-
ing is felecled .as one of the moft fingular. “ George Grochantzy, a Polander,
who had inlifted as a foldier in the fervice of the King of Pruffia, deferted during
the war. A fmall party was fent in purfuit of him ;
and, when he leaft expedted it,
they furprifed him finging and dancing among a company of peafants, who were
got together at an inn and were making merry. This event, fo ludden and un-
forefeen, and at the fame time fo dreadful in its confequences, ftruck him in fuch a
manner,
188 A KEY TO PHYSIC
manner, that, giving a great cry, he became at once altogether ftiipid and in-
fenfible, and was feized without the leaft refiftance. They carried him away to
Glocfau. where he was brought before the council of war, and received fentence
as a deferter. He fulfered himfelf to be led and difpofed of at the will of thofe
about him, without uttering a word, or giving the leaft fign that he knew what
had happened or would happen to him. He remained immoveable as a flatue
wherever he was placed, and was wholly paffive with refpedl to ail that was done
to him or about him. During all the time that he was in cuflody, he neither ate,
nor drank, nor flept, nor had any evacuation. Some of his comrades were fent
to fee him ;
after that he »vas vilited by fome officers of his corps and by fome
priefts ; but he flill continued in the fame date, without difcovering the leaft figng
of fenfibility. Promifes, intreaties, and threatenings, were equally ineffedlual.
The phyficians who were confulted upon his cafe were of opinion, that he was in
a ftate of hopelefs idiotcy. It was at firft fufpedled, that thofe appearances were
feigned ;
but thefe fufpicions neceffarily gave way when it was known that he took
no fuftenance, and that the involuntary fundlions of nature were in great meafure
fufpended. After fome time they knocked off his fetters, and left him at liberty
to go whither he would. He received his liberty with the fame infenfibility that he
had ftiown on other occafions : he remained fixed and immoveable ; his eyes
turned wildly here and there without taking cognizance of any obje6l:, and the
mufcles of his face were fallen and fixed like thofe of a dead body. Being left to
himfelf, he paffed twenty days in this condition, without eating, or having any
evacuation, and died on the twentieth day. He had been fometimes heard to fetch
deep fighs ;
and once he ruflied with great violence on a foldier, Avho had a mug of
liquor in his hand, forced the mug from him, and, having drank the liquor with
great eagernefs, let the mug drop to the ground.”
When a perfon is affedled with terror, the principal endeavour fliould be to re-
ftore the circulation to its due order, to promote perfpiration, and to allay the
agitation of the patient. For thefe purpofes he may drink a little warm liquor*
as camomile-tea, &c. the feet and legs may be put into warm water, the legs rub-
bed, and the camomile-tea repeated every fix or eight minutes ;
and when the fkin
is warm, and there is a tendency to perfpiration, fleep may be promoted by a
gentle opiate. But frights have been known not only to caufe, but alfo to cure,
difeafes. Mr. Boyle mentions agues, gout, and fciatica, cured by this means.
To turn from the ferious to the ludicrous effedls of fear, the following inftance
of the latter fort, quoted from a French author by Mr. Andrews in his volume
of Anecdotes, fhows upon what flight occafions this paffion may be fometimes ex-
cited in a very high degree, even in perfons themoft unlikely to entertain fuch a
2 gueft,
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 189
gueft. “ Charles Guftavus (the fucceffor of Chriftinaof Sweden) was befieging
Prague, when a boor of moft extraordinary vifage defired admittance to his tent
;
and, being allowed entrance^ offered, by way of amufing the king, to devour a
whole hog of one hundred w’eight in his prefence. The old general Koningfmark,
who flood by the king’s fide, and who, foldier as he was, had not got rid of the
prejudices of his childhood, hinted to his royal mafter that the peafant ought to be
burnt as a forcerer. ‘
Sir,’ faid the fellow, irritated at the remark, ‘
if your ma-
jefly will but make that old gentleman take off his fword and his fpurs, I will eat
him immediately, before I begin the hog.’ General Koningfmark (who had, at the
head of a body of Swedes, performed wonders againfl the Auftrians, and who was
looked upon as one of the bravefl men of the age) could not Hand this propofal,
efpecially as it was accompanied by a moft hideous and preternatural expanfion of”
the frightful peafant’s jaws. Without uttering a word, the veteran fuddenly turned
round, ran out of the tent, nor thought himfelf fafe until he had arrived at his
own quarters, where he remained above twenty-four hours locked up fecurely, be-
fore he got rid of the panic which had fo feverely affe6led him.”
Fear fliould not rife higher than to make us attentive and cautious ;
when it
gains an afcendency in the mind, it becomes an infupportable tyranny, and ren-
ders life a burden. The object of fear is evil; and to be exempt from fear, or at
lead not enflaved to it, gives dignity to our nature, and invigorates all our facul-
ties. Yet there are evils which we ought to fear. Thofe that arife from ourfelves,
or which it is in our power to prevent, it would be madnefs to defpife, and auda-
city not to guard againfl. External evils, which we cannot prevent, or could
not avoid without a breach of duty, it is manly and honourable to bear with for-
titude. Infenfibility to danger is not fortitude, any more than the incapacity of
feeling pain can be called patience ;
and to expofe ourfelves unneceffarily to evil is
worfe than folly, and very blameable prefumptien.
Of IMPOTENCY occasioned by FEAR.
IT has been proved by Dr. Hunter, that impotency is frequently the refult of
fear. He obferves, that as the “ parts of generation are not neceffary for the
exiftence or fupport of the individual, but have a reference to fomething elfe in
which the mind has a principal concern ;
fo a complete adlion in thofe parts can-
not take place without a perfect harmony of body and of mind : that is, there mufl
be both a power of body and difpofition of mind ;
for the mind is fubjedl to a
thoufand alarms which aifefl; the a6lions of thefe parts. Copulation is an a6l of
the body, the fpring of which is in the mind ;
but it is not volition : and according
No. 13. 3 C to
ipo A KEY TO PHYSIC
to the ftate of the mind, fo is the a6I performed. To perform this a6l well, the
body fliould be in health, and the mind perfedfly confident of the powers of
the body : the mind fhould be in a ftate entirely difengaged from every thing
elfe; it ftiould have no difficulties, no fears, no apprehenfions, not ev«n an
anxiety to perform the a6t well; for even this anxiety is a ftate of mind different
from what fhould prevail ;
there ftiould not be even a fear that the mind itfelf
may find a difficulty at the time the atH ftiould be performed. Perhaps nofun6tion
of the machine depends fo much upon the ftate of the mind as this. —The will and
reafoning faculty have nothing to do with this power ;
they are only employed in
the a6l, fo far as voluntary parts are made ufe of ;
and if they ever interfere, w'hich
they fometimes do, it often produces another ftate of mind which deftroys that
which is proper for the performance of the a6I ; it produces a defire, a wifti, a
hope, which are all only diffidence and uncertainty, and create in the mind the
idea of a poffibility of the want of fuccefs, which deftroys the proper ftate of mind,
or neceffary confidence. —There is perhaps no a6l in which a man feels himfelf
more interefted, or is more anxious to perform well ;
his pride being engaged in
fome degree, which, if within certain bounds, would produce a degree of perfection
in an aCt depending upon the will, or an a6t in voluntary parts ;
but, when it pro-
duces a ftate of mind contrary to that ftate on which the perfection of the aCl de-
pends, a failure muft be the confequence. —The body is not only rendered inca»
pable of performing this a6t by the mind being under the above influence of fear,
but alfo by the mind being, though perfectly confident of its power, yet confcious
of an impropriety in performing it ;
this, in many cafes, produces a ftate of mind
W'hich fliall take away all power. The ftate of a man’s mind refpeCting his After
takes away all power. A confcientious man has been known to lofe his powers on
finding the woman he was going to be connected with unexpectedly a virgin. —Shed-
ding tears arifes entirely from the ftate of the mind, although not fo much a com-
pound action as the aCt in queftion ;
for none are fo weak in body that they can-
not filed tears ; it is not fo much a compound aCtion of the mind and ftrength of
body joined, as the other aS is ;
yet, if we are afraid of ftiedding tears, or are de-
firous of doing it, and that anxiety is kept up through the whole of an affeCling
fcene, we certainly ftiall not ftied tears, or at leaft not fo freely as would have
happened from our natural feelings.”
Erom this account of the neceffity of having the mind independent refpeCting the
aCt, we muft fee that it may very often happen that the ftate of mind will be fuch
as not to allow the animal to exert his natural powers ;
and every failure increafes
the evil. We muft alfo fee from this ftate of the cafe, that this aCt muft be often
interrupted ;
and, the true caufe of this interruption not being known, it will be
2 laid
AND tHE OCCULT SCIENCES. 191
laid to the charge of the body, or want of powers. As thefe cafes do not arife from
real inability, they are to be carefully diftinguiflied from fuch as do ;
and perhaps
the only way to diftinguifh them is, to examine into the ftate of mind refpe6i,ing
this adl. So trifling often is the circnmftance which fliall produce this inability
depending on fear, that the very defire to pleafe lliall have that effedl, as in making
the woman the foie objedl to be gratified.
Cafes of this kind we fee every day ;
one of which I fiiall relate as an illuftration
of this fubje6t, and alfo of the method of cure.—A gentleman told me, that he
had lofi; his virility. After above an hour’s inveftigation of the cafe, I made out
the following '
fafts : that he had at unneceffary times fi:rong erections, which
fhowed that tie had naturally this power ;
that the erections were accompanied
with defire, which are all the natural powders wanted; but that there was ftill a
defe6t fomew'here, which I fuppofed to be from the mind. 1 inquired if all women
were alike to him? His anfwer was. No; fome women he could have connedtion
with as well as ever. This brought the defedt, whatever it was, into a fmaller
compafs ; and it appeared there was but one woman that produced this inability,
and that it arofe from a defire to perform the a6t with this woman well ; which
defire produced in the mind a doubt or fear of the want of fuccefs, which was
the caufe of the inability of performing the a6l. As this arofe entirely from the
ftate of the mind produced by a particular circumftance, the mind was to be ap-
plied to for the cure ;
and I told him that he might be cured, if he could perfectly
rely on his own powder of I’elf-denial. When I had explained what I meant, he told
me that he could depend upon every a6l of his will or refolution. I then told him
thatj if he had a perfect confidence in himfelf in that refpe6t, he was to go to bed
to this woman, but firft promife to himfelf that he would not have any conne6tion
with her for fix nights, let his inclinations and powers be what they would ;
which
he engaged to do, and alfo to let me know' the refult. About a fortnight after,
he told me, that this refolution had produced fuch a total alteration in the ftate
of his mind, that the power foon took place ;
for, inftead of going to bed with the
fear of inability, he went with fears that he fhould be pofleffed with too much
defire, too much power, fo as to become uneafy to him j which really happened;
for he would have been happy to have fhortened the time : and, when he had once
broke the fpell, the mind and powers went on together, and his mind never re-
turned to its former ftate.
Impptency alfo happens from a want of proper correfpondence between the
aftion of the tefticles and penis ; for we find that an irregalarity in the a6i:ions of
thefe parts fometimes happens in men, producing impotence; and fomething fimilar
probably may be one caufe of baiTennefs in women. In men the parts fubfervient
to
195 A KEY TO PHYSIC
to generation may be divided into two ;
the effential and the accelTory. The
tefticles are the effential ; the penis, &c. the acceffory. As this divifion arifes
from their ufes or a^biens in health, which exactly correfpond with one another, a
want of exa6tnefs in the correfpondence or fufeeptibility of thofe a6tions may alfo
be divided into two
:
where the a6tions are reverfed, the acceffory taking place
without the firft or effential, as in the ere6tions of the penis, where neither the mind
nor the tefticles are ftimulated to a6tion ;
and the fecond is where the tefticles per-
form the a6lion of fecretion too readily for the penis, which has not a correfpond-
ing eredlion. The firft is called ; and the fecond is what ought to be
called feminal weaknefs. —The mind has confiderable effedf on the correfpondence
of the a6lions of thefe two parts : but it would appear in many inftances, that
eredlions of the penis depend more on the ftate of the mind than the fecretion of
the femen does ;
for many have the fecretion, but not the erection ;
but in fuch,
the want of eredlion appears to be owing to fears of the mind only.
Priapifm oiien arifes fpontaneoufly ;
and often from vifible irritation of the
penis, as in the venereal gonorrhoea, efpecially when violent. The fenfation of
fuch eredlions is rather uneafy than pleafant ; nor is the fenfation of the glands at
the time fimilar to that arifing from the erections of defire, but more like to the
fenfation of the parts immediately after coition. Such as arife fpontaneoufly are
of more ferious confequence than thofe from inflammation, as they proceed pro-
bably from caufes not curable in themfelves or by any known methods. The pria-
pifm arifing from inflammation of the parts, as in a gonorrhoea, is attended with
nearly the fame fymptoms; but generally the fenfation is that of pain, proceeding
from the inflammation of the parts. It may be obferved, that what is faid of pria-
pifm is only applicable to it when a difeafe in itfelf, and not when a fymptora of
other difeafes, which is frequently the cafe.
Seminal weaknefs, or a fecretion and emiflion of the femen without eredlion,
is the reverfe of a priapifm, and is by much the worft difeafe of the two. There
is great variety in the degrees of this difeafe, there being all the gradations from
the exa6l correfpondence of the adlions of all the parts to the tefticles a6i;ing alone;
in every cafe of the difeafe, there is too quick a fecretion and evacuation of the fe-
men. Like to the priapifm, it does not arife from delires and abilities ;
although
when mild it is attended with both, but not in a due proportion ;
a very flight de-
fire often producing the full effe6l. The fecretion of the femen fliall be fo quick,
that Ample thought, or even toying, fliall make it flow.—Dreams have produced
this evacuation repeatedly in the fame night; and even when the dreams have been
fo flight, that there has been no confeioufnefs of them when the fleep has been
broken by the aft of emiflion. I have known cafes where the tefticles have been
fo
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 193
fo ready to fecrete, that the ieaft fri6lion on the glans has produced an emiffion :
I have known the fimple adtion of walking or riding produce this effe6l, and that
repeatedly in a very lliort fpace of time. A young man, about four or five and
twenty years of age, not fo much given to venery as mofl: young men, had thefe
lafl-inentioned complaints upon him. Three or four times in the night be would
emit ;
and if he walked faff, or rode on horfeback, the fame thing would happen.
He could fcarcely have connedtion with a woman Irefore he emitted, and in the
emiffion there was hardly any fpafm. He tried every fuppofed ftreng'hening me-
dicine, as alfo the cold bath and fea-bathing, but with no effeOt, By taking twenty
drops of laudanum on going to bed, he prevented the night-emiffions ;
and, by
taking the fame quantity in the morning, he could walk or ride without the before-
mentioned inconvenience. I diredted this practice to be continued for fome time;
although the difeafe did not return, that the parrs might be accuftomed to this healthy
ftate of a6lion ;
and I have reafon to believe the gentleman is now well. It was
found neceffary, as the conftitution became more habituated to the opiate, to increafe
the dofe of it. —The fpafms, upon the evacuation of the femen in fuch cafes, are
extremely flight, and a repetition of them foon takes place ; the firft emiffion not
preventing a fecond ;
the conftitution being all the time but little affected. When
the tefticles a6l alone, without the acceffory parts taking up the neceffary and natural
confequent adlion, it is ftill a more melancholy difeafe : for the fecretion arifes from
no vifible or fenfible caufe, and does not give any vifibleor fenfible effe6l, but runs
off fimilar to involuntary ftOols or urine. It has been obferved that the femen is more
fluid than natural in fome of thefe cafes.
There is great variety in the difeafed adlion of thefe parts; of which the follow-
ing cafe may be confidered as an example. A gentleman has had a ftridlure in the
urethra for many years, for which he has frequently ufed a bougie, but of late has
negledted it. He has had no connection with women for a confiderable time, being
afraid of the confequences. He has often in his fleep involuntary emiflions, which
generally awake him at the paroxyfm ;
but what furprifes him molt is, that often
he has fuch without any femen pafling forwards through the penis, which makes
him think that at thofe times it goes backwards into the bladder. This is not
always the cafe, for at other times the femen paffes forwards. At the time the
femen feems to pafs into the bladder, he has the ereClion, the dream ; and is
awaked with the fame mode of aClion, the fame fenfation, and the fame pleafure,
as when it paffes through the urethra, whether dreaming or waking. My opinion
is, that the fame irritation takes place in the bulb of the urethra without the femen,
that takes place there when the femen enters, in confequence of all the natural
preparatory fteps, whereby the very fame actions are excited as if it came into
No. 13. 3 D the
194 A KEY TO PHYSIC
the paflage; from which one would fuppofe, that either the femen is notfeereted,
or, if it be, that a retrograde motion takes place in the a6lion of the acceleratores
urince. But, if the firft be the cafe, then we may fuppofe, that in the natural flate
the afilion of thofe mufcles does not arife fimply from the ftimulus of the femen in
the part, but from their adlion being a termination of a preceding one, making
part of a feries of actions. Thus they may depend upon the fri6tion, or the ima-
gination of a friction, on the penis : the tefticles not doing their part, and the
fpafm in fuch cafes arifing from the fridiion and not from the fecretion. In many
of thofe cafes of irregularity, when the ere^ion is not ftrong, it lhall go off with-
out the emiflion ;
and at other times an emiffion ihall happen almoft without an
ere6tion ; but thefe arife not from debility, but affedlions of the mind. In many
of the preceding cafes, wafliing the penis, fcrotum, and perinaeum, with cold
water, is often of fervice; and, to render it colder than we find it in fome feafons
of the year, common fait may be added to it, and the parts waihed when the fait is
almofl diffolved.
Of grief.
GRIEF is the moll dellru6live of all the palTions. Its effe6ls are per-
manent, and when it finks deep into the mind, it generally proves fatal. An-
ger and fear, being of a more violent nature, feldom laft long ; but grief often
changes into a fixed melancholy, which preys upon the fpirits, and waftes the
conftitution. This paffion ought not to be indulged. It may generally be con-
quered at the beginning ;
but, when it has gained llrength, all attempts to remove
it are vain. No perfon can prevent misfortunes in life ; but it Ihows true great-
nefs of mind to bear them with ferenity. Many perfons make a merit of indulging
grief; and, when misfortunes happen, they obflinately refufe all confolation,
till the mind, overwhelmed with melancholy, finks under the load. Such condu6l
is not only dellruftive to health, but inconfiftent with reafon, religion, and common
fenfe.
Change of ideas is as neceffary for health as change of pofture. When the
mind dwells long upon one fubje6l, efpecially of a difagreeable nature, it hurts
the whole fundions of the body. Hence grief indulged fpoils the digeftion and
deftroys the appetite ; by w hich means the fpirits are depreffed, the nerves relaxed,
the bowels inflated with wind, and the humours, for want of frefli fupplies of chyle,
vitiated. Thus many an excellent conftitution has been ruined by a family-mif-
fortune, or any thing that occafions exceflive grief. It is utterly impoflible, that
any perfon of a dejeded mind Ihould enjoy health. Life may indeed be dragged
out for a few years: but whoever would live to a good old age muft be good-
humoured
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 195
humoured and cheerful. This indeed is not altogether in our own power; yet
our temper of mind, as well as our a6lions, depend greatly upon ourfelves. We
can either affociate with cheerful or melancholy companions, mingle in the amufe-
ments and offices of life, or fit flill and brood over our calamities, as we choofe.
Thefe, and many fuch things, are certainly in our power ;
and from thefe the
mind generally takes its call. The variety of fcenes which prefent themfelves to
the fenfes, were certainly defigned to prevent our attention from being too long
fixed upon any one obje6l. Nature abounds with variety ;
and the mind, unlefs
fixed down by habit, delights in contemplating new objects. This at once points
out the method of relieving the mind in diftrefs. Turn the attention frequently to
new objefts : examine them for fome time : when the mind begins to recoil, fhift
the fcene : by this means a conftant fucceffion of new ideas may be kept up, till the
difagreeable ones entirely difappear. Thus travelling, the ftudy of any art or
fcience, reading or writing on fuch fubjedts as deeply engage the attention, will
fooner expel grief than the moft fprightly amufements.
It has already been obferved, that the body cannot be healthy unlefs it be exer-
cifed ;
neither can the mind. Indolence nourifhes grief. When the mind has no-
thing elfe to think of but calamities, no wonder that it dwells there. Few people
who purfue bufinefs with attention are hurt by grief. Inftead therefore of abftradl-
ing ourfelves from the world or bufinefs, when misfortunes happen, we ought to
engage in it with more than ufual attention, to difcharge with double diligence the
functions of our ftation, and to mix with friends of a focial and cheerful temper.
Innocent amufements are by no means to be neglected. Thefe, by leading the mind
infenfibly to the contemplation ofagreeable objects, help to difpel the gloom which
misfortunes caft over it. They make time feem lefs tedious, and have many other
happy effe6ts. Some perfons, when overwhelmed with grief, betake themfelves to
drinking. This is making the cure worfe than the difeafe. It feldom fails to end in
the ruin of fortune, character, and conftitution.
Of love.
LOVE is perhaps the ftrongeft of all the paffions ; at leaft, when it becomes
violent, it is lefs fubje6t to the controul either of the underftanding or will than
any of the reft. Fear, anger, and feveral other paffions, are neceflary for the
prefervation of the individual ; but love is neceflary for the continuation of the
fpecies itfelf: it was therefore proper that this paffion ffiould be deeply rooted in
the human breaft.—^Though love be a ftrong paffion, it is feldom fo rapid in its
progrefs as feveral of the others. Few perfons fall defperately in love all at once.
We would therefore advife every one, before he tampers with this paffion, to con-
fider
196 A KEY TO PHYSIC
fider well the probability of his being able to obtain the object of his love.
When that is not likely, he fliould avoid every occafion of increafing it. He
ought immediately to fly the company of the beloved obje6t ;
to apply his mind
attentively to bufinefs or ftudy ;
to take every kind of amufement; and, above
all, to endeavour, if poffible, to find another object which may engage his affec-
tions, and which it may be in his power to obtain. There is no pafllon with
which people are fo ready to tamper as love, although none is more dangerous.
Some men make love for amufement, others from mere vanity, or on purpofe to
fhow their confequence with the fair. This is perhaps the greateft; piece of cruelty
which any one can be guilty of. What we eagerly with for, we eafily credit
Hence the too-credulous fair are often betrayed into a fituation which is truly de-
plorable, before they are able to difeoverthat the pretended lover was only injeft.
But there is no jelling with this pallion. When love is got to a certain height, it
admits of no other cure but the poffeflion of its object, w'hich, in this cafe, ought
always, if poffible, to be obtained. The condu6l of parents with regard to the dif-
pofal ot their children in marriage is often very blameable. An advantageous
match is the conftant aim of parents ;
wdiile their children often fuffer a real mar-
tyrdom between their inclination and their duty. The firfl thing which parents
ought to confult, in difpofingof their children in marriage, is certainly their inclina-
tions. Were due regard always paid to thefe, there would be fewer unhappy
couples ;
and parents would not have fo often caufe to repent the feverity of their
conduct, after a ruined conftitution, a loft character, or a diftradled mind, has fhown
them their miftake.
With regard to love in its ufual and more appropriate fignification, it may
be defined, “ that affe6lion which, being compounded of animal defire, efteem,
and benevolence, becomes the bond of attachment and union between individuals
of the different fexes ; and makes them feel in the fociety of each other a fpecies
of happinefs which they experience no-where elfe.” We call it an (tffeElion rather
than a paflion, becaufe it involves a defire of the happinefs of its object : and that
its conftituent parts are thofe which have been juft enumerated, we fhall firft en-
deavour to prove, and then proceed to trace its rife and progrefs from a felfifh
appe tite to agenerous fentiment.
Animal defire is the a6lual energy of the fenfual appetite ;
and that it is an
effential part of the complex affedion, which is properly called love, is apparent
from this confideration, that, though a man may have fentiments of efteem and bene-
volence towards women who are both old and ugly, he never fuppofes himfelf to
be in love with any woman towards whom he feels not the fenfual appetite to have
a ftronger tendency than to other individuals of her fex. On the other hand, that
2 animal
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 197
animal defire alone cannot be called the afFedtion of love is evident; becaufe he
who gratifies fuch a defire without efteeming its object, and vvifliing to communi-
cate at the fame time that he receives enjoyment, loves not the w'oman, but him-
felf. Mere animal defire has nothing in view but the fpecies and the fex of its
objeft ;
and, before it make a feledlion, it muft be combined with fentiments very
different from itfelf. The firft fentiment with which it is combined, and by
which a man is induced to prefer one woman to another, feems to be that by which
we are delighted with gracefulnefs of perfon, regularity of features, and beauty of
complexion. It is not indeed to be denied that there is fomething irrefiftible in
female beauty. The moft fevere will not pretend that they do not feel an imme-
diate prepoffefllon in favour of a handfome woman; but this prepoffeffion, even
when combined with animal defire, does not conftitute the whole of that affedlion
which is called love. Savages feel the influence of the fenfual appetite, and it is
extremely probable that they have fome ideas of beauty; but among favages
the affedtion of love is feldom felt. Even among the lower orders in civil fociety
it feems to be a very grofs paffion, and to have in it more of the felfiffinefs of
appetite than of the generofity of efteera. To thefe obfervations many exceptions
will no doubt be found ;
but we fpeak of favages in general, and of the great body
of the labouring poor, who in the choice of their mates do not ftudy—who indeed
are incapable of Undying—that reditude of mind and thofe delicacies of fentiment,
without which neither man nor woman can deferve to be efteemed.
In the favage ftate, and even in the firft ftages of refinement, the bond of
union between the fexes feems to confift of nothing more than mere animal defire
and inftindlive tendernefs for their infant progeny. The former impels them to
unite for the propagation of the fpecies ;
and the latter preferves the union till
the children, who are the fruit of it, are able to provide for their own fubfiftence.
That in fuch unions, whether cafual or permanent, there is no mutual efteem and
benevolence, is apparent from the ftate of fubjeftion in which women are held
in rude and uncultivated nations, as well as from the manner in which niarriages
are in fuch nations contra6ted.
Sweetnefs of temper, a capital article with us in the female character, difplays
itfelf externally in mild looks and gentle manners, and is the firft and perhaps the
moft powerful inducement to love in a cultivated mind. But fuch graces are fcarcely
difcernible in a female favage; and even in the moft polifhed woman would not
be perceived by a male favage. Among favages, ftrength and boldnefs are the
only valuable qualities. In thefe females are commonly deficient; for which
reafon they are contemned by the males as beings of an interior order. The North-
American tribes glory inidlenefs; the drudgery of labour degrades a man in their
No. 13. 3E opinion,
19S A KEY TO PHYSIC
opinion, and is proper for woman only. To join young perfons in marriage is-
accordingly the bufinefs of the parents ;
and it would be unpardonable meannefs in
the bridegroom to fhow any fondnefs for the bride. In Guiana a woman never
eats with her husband, but after every meal attends him with water for wafliing
;
and in the Caribbee iflands die is not permitted to eat even in the prefence of her
hufband. Dampier obferves in general, that among all the wild nations with
which he was acquainted the women carry the burdens, while the men walk be-
fore, and carry nothing but their arms ;
and that women even of the higheft rank
are not better treated. In Siberia, and even in Ruffia, the capital excepted, men
till very Igitely treated their wives in every refpe6l like (laves. It might indeed be
thought, that animal defire, were there nothing elfe, (hould have raifed women
to fome degree of eftimation among men ;
but male favages, utter ((rangers to
decency and refinement, gratify animal defire with as little ceremony as they do
hunger or third.
Hence it was that in the early ages of fociety a man purchafed a woman to be
his wife as one purchafes an ox or a (heep to be food ;
and valued her only as (he
contributed to his fenfual gratification. Inftances innumerable might be collefted
from every nation of which we are acquainted with the early hiftory ;
but we (liall
content ourfelves with mentioning a few. Abraham bought Rebekah, and gave
her to his fon Ifaac for a wife. Jacob, having nothing to give, ferved Laban
fourteen years for two wives. To David, demanding Saul’s daughter in marriage,
it was faid, “ The king defireth not any dowry, but an hundred forelkins of the
Philiftines.” In the Iliad, Agamemnon o(Fers his daughter to Achilles fora wife;
and fays that he would not demand for her any price. By the laws of Ethelbert,
king of England, a man who committed adultery with his neighbour’s wife w'as
obliged to pay the hulband a fine, and to buy him another wife. But it is needlefs
to multiply inftances ;
the practice has prevailed univerfally among nations emer-
ging from the favage (late, or in the rudeft ftage of fociety ;
and, wherever it pre^
vailed, men could not polTibly have for the fex any of that tender regard and
efteem which conftitute fo effential a part of the complex a(Fe6lion of love.
But, if among favages and the vulgar love be unknown, it cannot polfibly be
an inftinftive affe6lion ;
and therefore it may be a(ked. How it gets poffelTion of
the human heart; and by what means we can judge whether in any particular
inftance it be real or imaginary? Thefe queftions are of importance, and deferve
to be fully anfvvered ;
though many circumftances confpire to render it no eafy
talk to give to them fuch anfwers as (hall be perfe6lly fatisfa^ory. Love can fub-
fift only between individuals of the diiferent fexes. A man can hardly love two
women at the fame time; and we believe that a woman is ftill lefs capable of loving
ssi
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES.
at once more than one man. Love, therefore, has a natural tendency to make
men and women pair j
or, in other words, it is the fource of marriage : but in po-
liihed foeiety, where alone this affedlion has any place, fo many things befides mu-
tual attachment are necelTary to make the married life comfortable, that we rarely
fee young perfons uniting from the impulfe of love, and have therefore but few op-
portunities of tracing the rife, progrefs, and confequences, of the affection. W"e
fhall, however, throw together fuch refle6tions as have occurred to us on the fub-
jeft, not without indulging a hope, that they may be ufeful to the younger part of
our readers when forming the moft important conne6tion in life.
We have faid, that the perfe6tion of beauty, combined with animal defire, i-S'
the firft inducement which a man can have to prefer one woman to another. It
may be added, that elegance of figure, a placid mafculine countenance, with a
perfon which indicates llrength and agility, are the qualities which firfl; tend to
attach any woman to a particular man. Beauty is defined, “ That particular form
which is the mofi common of all particular forms to be met with in the fame fpe-
cies of beings.” Let us apply this definition to our own fpecies, and try, by
means of it, to afcertain what conftitutes the beauty of the human face. It is
evident, that of countenances we find a number almoft infinite of different forms,
of which forms one only conftitutes beauty, whilfl the reft, however numerous,
conftitute what is not beauty, but deformity or uglinefs. To an attentive ob-
ferver, however, it is evident, that of the numerous particular forms of uglinefs,
there is not one which includes fo many faces as are formed after that particular
caft which conftitutes beauty. Every particular fpecies of the animal as well as of
the vegetable creation may be faid to have a fixed or determinate form, to which,
as to a centre, nature is continually inclining. Or it may be compared to pendu*-
lams vibrating in different dire6tions over one central point; and, as they all crofs
the centre, though only one paffes through any other point, fo it will be found
that perfed; beauty is oftener produced by nature than deformity: we do not
mean than deformity in general, but than any one kind and degree of deformity.
To inftance in a particular part of a human feature ; the line which forms the
ridge of the nofe is deemed beautiful when it is ftraight; but this is likewife the
central form, which is oftener found than any one particular degree of concave,
convex, or any other irregular form that lhall be propofed. As we are then more
accuftomed to beauty than deformity, we may conclude that to be the reafon why
we approve and admire it, juft as we approve and admire falhions of dj efs for no
other reafon than that we are ufed to them. The fame thing may be faid of colour
as of form: it is cuftom alone which determines our preference of the colour of
the Europeans to that of the Ethiopians, and which maiies ttera prefer their own
colour
200 A KEY TO PHYSIC
colour to ours ;
fo that, though habit and cuftom cannot be the caufe of beauty
they are certainly the caufe of our liking it. That we do like it cannot be denied.
Every one is confcious of a pleafing emotion when contemplating beauty either in
man or woman ;
and, when that pleafure is combined with the gratification of the
fenfual appetite, it is obvious that the fum of enjoyment muft be greatly increafed.
The perception of beauty, therefore, neceffarily direds the energy of the fenfual
appetite to a particular objed ;
but ftill this combination is a mere felfifli feeling,
which regards its objed only as the beft of many fimiiar inftruments of pleafure.
Before it can deferve the name of love, it muft be combined with efteem, which is
never beftowed but upon moral charader and internal worth ;
for, let a woman be
ever fo beautiful, and of courfe ever fo defirable as an inftrument of fenfual grati-
fication, if the be not poffeffed of the virtues and difpofitions which are peculiar to
her fex, ftie will infpire no man with a generous affedion. With regard to the
outlines, indeed, whether of internal difpofition or of external form, men and
women are the fame; but nature, intending them for mates, has given them dif-
pofitions, which, though concordant, are however different, fo as to produce
together delicious harmony. The man, more robuft, is fitted for fevere labour,
and for field-exercifes ;
the woman, more delicate, is fitted for fedentary occu-
pations, and particularly for nurfing children. The man, bold and vigorous, is
qualified for being a protedor ; the woman, delicate and timid, requires protec-
tion. Hence it is, that a man never admires a woman for poffeffing bodily ftrength
or perfonal courage ; and women always defpife men who are deftitute of them.
The man, as a protedor, is direded by nature to govern ;
the woman, confcious
of inferiority, is difpofed to obey. Their intelledual powers correfpond to the
deftination of nature. Men have penetration and folid judgment to fit them for
governing; women have underftanding to make an engaging figure under good
government; a greater proportion would excite dangerous rivalftiip between the
fexes, which nature has avoided by giving them different talents. Women have
more imagination and fenfibility than men, which make all their enjoyments more
exquifite ; at the fame time that they are better qualified to communicate enjoy-
ment. Add another capital difference of difpofition : the gentle and infinuating
manners of the female fex tend to foften the roughnefs of the other fex ;
and, where-
ever women are indulged with any freedom, they polifii fooner than men.
Thefe are not the only particulars that diftinguilh the fexes. With refped to
the ultimate end of love, it is the privilege of the male, as fuperior and proteftor,
to make a choice : the female, preferred, has no privilege but barely to confent
or to relufe. Whether this diftin^lion be the immediate refult of the originally-
different difpofitions of the fexes, or only the effect of affociations inevitably form-
7 ed,
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 201
ed, may be qneftioned ; but among ail nations it is the practice for men to court,
and for women to be courted : and, were the mod beautiful woman on earth to
invert this pra6lice, flie would forfeit the efteem, however by her external grace
Ihe might excite the defire, of the man whom Ihe addreffed. The great moral
virtues, which may be comprehended under the general term integrity, are all ahfo-
lutely neceffary to make either men or women efiimable ;
but, to procure efteem
to the female character, the modejly peculiar to their fex is a very eflential circum-
ftance. Nature hath provided them with it as a defence againft the artful folici-
tations of the other fex before marriage, and alfo as a fupport of conjugal fidelity,
A woman, therefore, whofe difpofitions are gentle, delicate, and rather timid
than bold, who is pofleffed of a large fliare of fenfibility and modefty, and whufe
manners are foft and infinuating, muft, upon moral principles, command the
efteem and benevolence of every individual of the other fex. who is pofftftt d of
found underftanding ; but, if her perfon be dieformed, or not fuch as to excite
fome degree of animal defire, ftie will attra6l no man’s love. In like manner, a
man whofe moral character is good, whofe underftanding is acute, and whofe con^-
verfation is inftru6live, muft command the efteem of every fenfible and virtuous
woman; but, if his figure be difagreeable, his manners unpoliflied, his habits
flovenly, and, above all, if he be deficient in personal courage, he will hardly
excite defire in the female breaft. It is only when the qualities which command
efteem are, in the fame perfon, united with thofe which excite defire, that the
individual fo accompliflied can be an objedt of loye to one of the other fex ; but,
when thefe qualities are thus united, each of them increafes the other in the ima-
gination of the lover. The beauty of his miftrefs gives her, in his apprehenfion,
a greater fhare of gentlenefs, modefty, and every thing which adorns the female
chara6ter, thart perhaps ftie really poffefles ;
whilft this perfuafion of her internal
worth makes him, on the other hand, apprehend her beauty to be abfolutely un-
rivalled.
The affe6lion thus generated is more or lefs pure, and will be more or lefs per-
manent, according as the one or the other part of which it is compounded pre-
dominates. Where defire of poffeffion prevails over our efteem of the perfon and
merits ot the defirable objeft, love lofes its benevolent chara6ler ;
the appetite
for gratification becomes ungovernable, and tends violently to its end, regardlefs
of the mifery that muft follow. In that ftate, love is no longer a fweet agreeable
affedlion; it becomes a felfifh, painful, pafiion, which, like hunger and thirft,
produces no happinefs but in the inftnnt of fruition; and, when fruition is over,
difguft and averfion generally fucceed to defire. On the other hand, where efteem,
founded on a virtuous ohara^r and gentle manners, prevails ov«r animal defire,.
No. 13. 3 E the
S02 A KEY TO PHYSIC
the lover would not for the world gratify his appetite at the expenfe of a lady’s
honour or peace of mind. He wiflies, indeed, for enjoyment; and to him en-
joyment is more exquifite than to the mere fenfual lover, becaufe it unites fenti-
ment with the gratification of fenfe ;
at the fame time that, fo far from being fuc-
ceeded by difguft or averfion, it increafes his benevolence to the woman, whofe
charadler and manners he efteems, and who has contributed fo much to his plea-
fure. Benevolence to an individual, having a general end, admits of a6ls without
number, and is feldom fully accomplifhed. Hence mutual love, which is com-
pofed chiefly of efteem and benevolence, can hardly be of a fhorter duration than
its obje6ts. Frequent enjoyment endears fuch lovers to each other, and makes
conftancy a pleafure ;
and, when the days of fenfual enjoyment are over, efleem and
benevolence will remain in the mind, making fweet, even in old age, the fociety
of that pair, in whom are colledled the affedlions of hufband, wife, lover, friend
—
the tendereft affedlions of human nature.
From the whole of this inveftigation, we think it appears, that the afteftion be-
tween the fexes which deferves the name of love, is infeparably conne6led with
virtue and delicacy : that a man of gallantry cannot be a faithful or a generous
lover; that in the breaft of him, who has ranged from woman to woman for the
mere gratification of his fenfual appetite, defire muft have effaced all efleem for
the female chara6ler; and that, therefore, the maxim too generally received,
“ that a reformed rake makes the befl hufband,” has very feldom a chance to be
true. We think it may likewife be inferred, that thoufands fancy themfelves in
love who know not what love is, or how it is generated in the human breafl ; and
therefore we beg leave to advife fuch of our readers as may imagine themfelves to
be in that ftate, to examine their own minds, with a view to difcover, whether,
if the obje6l of their love were old and ugly, they would flill efleem them for the
virtues of their chara6ter, and the propriety of their manners. This is a queflion
which deferves to be well weighed by the young and amorous, who, in forming
the matrimonial connection, are too often blindly impelled by mere animal defire,
inflamed by beauty. It may indeed happen, after the pleafure of gratifying that
defire is gone, (and if not refined by efleem and benevolence, go it mufl with a
fwift pace,) that a new bond of attachment may be formed upon more dignified
and more lafling principles ;
but this is a dangerous experiment. Even fuppofing
good fenfe, good temper, and internal worth of every fort, yet a new attachment, even
upon fuch qualifications, is rarely formed ;
becaufe it commonly, or rather always,
happens, that fuch qualifications, the only folid foundation of an indiffoluble con-
neClion, if they did not originally make efleem predominate over animal defire, are
afterwards rendered altogether invifible by fatiety of enjoyment creating difgufl,
7 which
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 203
which is generally the cafe with violent love founded on the defire of enjoyment
only. As the delicate nature of female honour and decorum, and the inexprefiible
grace of a chafte and modeft behaviour, are the fureft and indeed the only means of
kindling at firft, and ever after of keeping alive, this tender and elegant flame,
and of accomplifiiing the excellent ends defigned by it; to attempt by fraud to
violate the one, or under pretence of paflion to fully and corrupt the other, and,
by fo doing, to ex'pofe the too-often credulous and unguarded objedt, with a wan-
ton cruelty, to the hatred of her own fex and the fcorn of ours, and to the loweft
infamy of both,—is a condu61; not only bafe and criminal, but inconfiftent with that
truly rational and refined enjoyment, the fpirit and quinteflence of which is de-
rived from the bafliful and facred charms of virtue kept untainted, and therefore
ever alluring to the lover’s heart.
The fymptoms produced by love as a difeafe are as follow ; The eye-lids often
twinkle; the eyes are hollow, and yet appear as if full with pleafure ;
the pulfe
is not peculiar to the paflion, but the fame with that which attends folicitude and
care. When the obje6l of this affe6lion is thought of, particularly if the idea is
fudden, the fpirits are confufed, the pulfe changes, and its force and time are very
variable : in fome inflances, the perfon is fad and watchful ;
in others, not being
confcious of his flate, he pines away, is flothful, and regardlefs of food. As the
paflion prevails, fighs grow deeper ;
a tremor aifefts the heart and pulfe ;
the
countenance is alternately pale and red ; the voice is fuppreffed; the eyes grow
dim: cold fweats break out; fleep abfents itfelf; the fecretions become difturbed,
and a lofs of appetite, a he6lic fever, melancholy, or perhaps madnefs, or death,
conftitutes the fad cataftrophe. On this fubje6l the curious may confult ^Egineta,
lib. iii. cap. 7. Oribat. Synop. lib. viii. cap. 9. or a treatife profelfedly written
on Love, as it is adiftemper, by James'Ferrard, Oxford, 1640.
The ancients were much addidted to amulets and potions to excite love in the
objedl of their defire, the operation of which was violent and dangerous, and fre-
quently deprived fuch as drank them of their reafon. Some of the mofi: remark-
able ingredients of which they were compofed were thefe : the hippomanes, the
jynx, infedls bred from putrefadtion, the fifh remora, the lizard, brains of a calf,
the hairs on the tip of a wolf’s tail, his fecret parts, the bones of the left fide of a
toad eatea with ants, the blood of doves, bones of fnakes, feathers of fcreech-owls,
twifted cords of wool in which a perfon had hanged himfelf, rags, torches, reliques,
a neft of fwallows buried and familhed in the earth, bones fnatched from hungry
bitches, the marrow of a boy famiftied in the midft of plenty, dried human liver
;
to thefe may be added feveral herbs growing out of putrid fubftances. Such were
the ingredients that entered into the compofition of that infernal draught a love-
potion.
204 A KEY TO PHYSIC
potion. The antidotes againft love were generally agnus caftus, which has the
power of weakening the generative faculty; fprinkling the daft in which a mule
has rolled herfelf ;
tying toads in the hide of a beaft newly flain ; applying amu-
lets of minerals or herbs, which were fuppofed of great efficacy.
Of melancholy.
THE pathology of melancholy and mania is very obfcure; as coming on with-
out any fever, or difturbance in the blood’s motion. Often alfo they are hereditary,
depending on the original ftrufture of the body, efpecially of the brain; the fault
of which, however, cannot be detedled by the niceft anatomift. But it is well
known, that various difeafes of the brain, obftrudlions, tumors, either of the
brain itfelf or of the cranium prefling upon it, any injury done to the head, and,
as fome phyficians relate, the hardnefs and drynefs of the brain, and fome peculiar
irritations affedting the nervous fyftem, are capable of bringing on this malady.
And indeed fo great are the, irritations affecting the nervous fyftem in mad people,
that they often fleep little or none for a longtime. Yet even this fo defedlive and
imperted; knowledge of the difeafes of the brain and nerves, is by no means free
from difficulties. For, though we know that the brain, or a certain part of it, is
hurt, or that it is irritated, by a fwelling, or a pointed bone growing into it, no-
body can foretel how great, or what, may be the nature of the malady from fuch
a hurt : for examples are not wanting of people who, after lofing a large part of
the brain, have recovered and lived a long time ;
or of thofe who have perceived
no inconvenience from a large portion of that vifcus being corrupted, until
at length they have fallen fuddenly down and died in convulfions.
Many perfons of a religious tura of mind behave as if they thought it a crime to
be cheerful. They imagine the whole of religion confifts in certain mortifications,
or denying themfelves the fmalleft indulgence, even of the moft innocent amufe-
ments. A perpetual gloom hangs upon their countenances, while the deepeft
melancholy preys upon their minds. At length the faireft profpefts vanifli, every
thing puts on a difmal appearance, and thofe very objects which ought to give
delight afford nothing but difguft. Life itfelf becomes a burde -, and the un-
happy wretch, perfuaded that no evil can equal what he feels, often puts an end
to his own miferable exiftence. It is great pity that ever religion fliould be fo far
perverted as to become the caufe of thofe very evils which it was defigned to
prevent. Nothing can be better calculated than true religion to raife and
fupport the mind of its votaries under every afflidtion that can befal them. It
teaches them that even the fofferings of this life are preparatory to the happinefs
of
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. ^65
of the next ;
and that all who in a courfe of virtue fhall at lenj2;th arrive at
complete felicity.
Perfons whofe bufinefs it is to recommend religion to others, iljould beware of
dwelling too much on gloomy fubjedls. That peace and tranquillity of mind^
which true religion is calculated to infpire, is a more powerful argument in its
favour, than all the terrors that can be uttered. Terror may indeed deter mea
from outward a6ls of wickednefs ;
but can never infpire them with that love of God,,
and real goodnefs of heart, in v/hich alone true religion confifts. ,
In Ihort, the
beft way to counteract the violence of any pallion, is to keep the mind clofely en:-
gaged in fome ufeful purfuit.
Of the PROGNOSTICS of DISEASES ;
with RULES for
PRESERVING HEALTH.
PROGNOSTIC is a Judgment of the event either of a llate.of health, or of a
difeafe ;
as, Whether it fliall end in life or death, be long or fhort, mild or malig-
nant, See. taken from certain fymptoms thereof. When, by the following remarks,
the perfon diall judge what diforder is coming upon him, or already prefent, a fafe
and effectual remedy will in general be found in the Medical Part of the Herbal
;
but, whenever that work is not fufficiently full to the purpofe, I fliall add fuch
occafional obfervations for prevention and cure as have occurred to me in my
late practice.
Hippocrates was the firlt who treated of medicine in a regular and rational man-
ner, and he is therefore juftly confidered as the father of phyfic. Hippocrates re-
marked four ftages in diftempers ;
viz. The beginning of the difeafe, its augmenta-
tion, its Rate or height, and its declination. In fuch difeafes as terminate fatally,
death comes in place of declination. In the third Rage, therefore, the change is
moR confiderable, as it determines the fate of the fick perfon; and this is moR com-
monly done by means of a cri/is. By this word he underRood any fudden change in
ficknefs, whether for the better or for the worfe, whether health or death fucceed
immediately. Such a change, he fays, is made at that time by nature either abfol-
ving or condemning the patient. Hence we may conclude, that Hippocrates ima-
gined difeafes to be only a diRurbance of the animal economy, with which Nature
was perpetually at variance, and ufing her utmoR endeavours to expel the offending
eaufe. Her manner of aCling on thefe occafions is to reduce to their natural
Rate thofe humours whofe difeord occafions the diRurbance of the whole body,
whether in relation to their quantity, quality, mixture^ motion, or any other way
in which they become offenRve. The principal means employed by nature for this
No. 14. 3 G
A KEY to PHYSIC
^05
end is what Hippocrates calls concoBion. By this he underftood the bringing the
morbific matter lodged in the humours to fuch a ftate, as to be eafily fitted for ex-
pulfion by whatever means nature might think moft proper. When matters are
brought to this pafs, w'hatever is fuperfluous or hurtful immediately empties itfelf, or
nature points out to phyficians the way by which fuch an evacuation is to be accom-
pl idled. The crifis takes place either by bleeding, ftool, vomit, fweat, urine, tu-
mors or abfceffes, fcabs, pimples, fpots, &c. But thefe evacuations are not to be
looked upon as the etFe6ls of a true crifis, unlefs in confiderable quantity; fmall
difcharges not being fufficient to make a crifis; which, on the contrary, are a fign
that nature is deprefled by the load of humours, and that die lets them go
,-through weaknefs and continual irritation. What comes forth in this manner is
crude, becaufe the diftemper is yet too ftrong; and, while matters remain in this
ftate, only a bad or imperfect crifis is to be expelled. This diows that the dif-
temper triumphs, or at leaft is equal in ftrength to nature, w'hich prognofticates
death, or a prolongation of the difeafe. In this laftcafe, however, nature often has an
opportunity of attempting a new crifis more happy than the former, after having
made fredi efforts to advance the conccdlion of the humours.—It mufthere beob-
ferved however, that, according to Hippocrates, concodlion cannot be made but
in a certain time, as every fruit has a limited time to ripen ;
for he compares the
humours which nature has digefted to fruits come to maturity. The time required
for concodlion depends on the differences among diftempers mentioned above. In
thofe which Hippocrates calls very acute, the digeftion or crifis happens by the
fourth day; in thofe which are only acute, it happens on the feventh, eleventh,
or fourteenth, day; which laft is the longeft period generally allowed by Hippocrates
in diftempers that are truly acute, though in fome places he ftretches it to the twen-
tieth or twenty-firft, nay, fometimes to the fortieth or fixtieth, days. All difeafes
that exceed this laft term are called chronical. And while, in thofe difeafes that ex-
ceed fourteen days, he confiders every fourth day as critical, or at leaft remarkable,
by which we may judge whether the crifis on the fourth day will be favourable or
not ;
fo in thofe which run from twenty to forty he reckons only the fevenths, and
in thofe that exceed forty he begins to reckon by twenty. Beyond the hundred
and twentieth he thinks that the number of days has no power over the crifis.
They are then referred to the general changes of the feafon; fome terminating
about the equinoxes ;
others about the folftices ;
others about the rifing or fetting
of the ftars of certain conftellations ;
or, if numbers have yet any place, he reckons
by months, or even whole years. Thus (he fays) certain difeafes in children have
their crifes in the feventh month after their birth, and others in their feventh or even
their fourteenth year.
Though
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 207
Though Hippocrates mentions the twenty-firft as one ofthe critical days in acute
diftempers, as' already noticed ;
yet, in other places of his works, he mentions alfo
the twentieth. The reafon he gives for this in one of thofe places of his works is,
that the days of licknefs were not quite entire. In general, however, he is much
attached to the odd days ; infomuch that in one of his aphorifms he tells us, “ The
fweats that come out upon the third, fifth, feventh, ninth, eleventh, fourteenth,
feventeenth, twenty-firft, twenty-feventh, thirty-firft, or thirty-fourth, days, are
beneficial ;
but thofe that come out upon other days fignify that the fick ftiall be
brought low, that his difeafe ftiall be very tedious, and that he ftiall be fubjedl to
relapfes.” He farther fays, that “ the fever which leaves the fick upon any but an
odd day is ufually apt to relap fe.” Sometimes, however, he coiifeffes that it is other-
wife ;
and he gives an inftance of a falutary crifis happening on the fixth day. But
thefe are very rare inftances, and therefore cannot, in his opinion, overthrow the
general rule. Befides the crifis, however, or the change which determines the fate
of the patient, Hippocrates often fpeaks of another, which only changes the fpecies
of the diftemper, without reftoring the patient to health; as when a vertigo is
turned to an epilepfy, a tertian fever to a quartan, or to a continual, &c.
But what chiefly contributed to procure the vaft refpedt generally paid to Hippo-
crates, was his accuracy in prognoftics: thus he not only diftinguiftied one difeafe
from another by the figns which properly belonged to each ;
but by comparing
the fame fort of diftemper which happened to feveral perfons, and the accidents
which ufually appeared before and after, he could often foretel a difeafe before it
came, and afterwards give a rightjudgment of the event of it. By this way of prog-^
nofticating, he came to be exceedingly admired ;
and this he carried to fuch a
height, that it may juftly be faid to be his mafter-piece ;
and -Celfus, who lived
after him, remarks that fucteeding phyficians, though they found out feveral new
things relating to the management of difeafes, yet were obliged to the writings of
Hippocrates for all that they knew of figns ;
and let us add, that we are obliged to
Celfus for a true underftanding of the works of Hippocrates. The firft thing Hip-
pocrates confidered, wdien called to a patient, was his looks. —It was a good fign
jvith him to have a vifage refembling that of a perfon in health, and the fame with
\vhat the fick man had before he was attacked by the difeafe. As it varied from
this, fo much the greater danger was apprehended. The following is the deferip-
tion which he gives of the looks of a dying man : —“ When a patient (fays he) has
his nofe ftiarp, his eyes funk, his temples hollow, his ears cold and contradted, the
ftcin of his forehead tenfeand dry, and the colour ofhis face tending to a pale-green
or lead-colour, one may give out for certain that death is very near at hand ;
unlefs
thte ftrength of the patient has been exhaufted all at once by long watchings, or by a
loofenefs,
£08 A KEY TO PHYSIC
loofenefs, or bcincf a lon« time without eating.” This obfervation has been con-
firmed by thofe of fucceeding phyficians, who have, from him, denominated it the
Hippocratic face. The lips hanging relaxed and cold, arelikewdfe looked upon by
this author as a confirmation of the foregoing prognoftic. He took alfo his figns
from the difpofition of the eyes in particular. When a patient cannot bear the
light ;
when he fheds tears involuntarily ;
when, in fleeping, fome part of the white of
the eye is feen, unlefs he ufually deeps after that manner, or has a loofenefs upon
him : thefe figns, as wed as the foregoing ones, prognofticate danger. The eyes
deadened, with a mid before them, or their brightnefs loll, prefages death, or great
weaknefs. Eyes fparkling, fierce, and fixed, denote the patient to be delirious, or
that he foon will be feized with a frenzy. When the patient fees any thing red, and
like fparks of fire and lightning pals before his eyes, you may expedl an hasmor-
rage; and this often happens before thofe crifes w'hich are to be attended by a lofs
of blood. The condition of the patient is alfo fliown by his podure in bed. If
you find him lying on one fide, his body, neck, legs, and arms, a little contradled,
which is the podure of a man in health, it is a good fign : on the cantrary, if he- lies
on his back, his arms dretched out, and his legs hanging down, it is a fign of great
weaknefs ;
and particularly when the patient dides or lets himfelf fall down towards
the feet, it denotes the approach of death. When a patient in a burning fever is
continually feeling about with his hands and fingers, and moves them up before his
face and eyes as if to take away fomething that paffed before them ; or on his bed-
covering, as if picking or fearching for little draws, or taking aw^ay fome filth, or
drawing out little flocks of w’ool; all this is a fign that he is delirious, and that he
will die. Amongd the other figns of a prefent or approaching delirium, he alfo
adds this : When a patient who naturally fpeaks little begins to talk more than he
ufed to do, or wdien one that talks much becomes filent, this change is to be reck-
oned a fort of delirium, or is a fign that the patient will foon fall into one. The
frequent trembling or darting of the tendons of the wrids prefages likewife a deli-
rium. As to the different forts of delirium, Hippocrates is much more afraid of
thofe that run upon mournful fubje^ls than fuch as are accompanied with mirth.
When a patient breathes fad, and is oppreffed, it is a fign that be is in pain, and
that the parts above the diaphragm are inflamed. Breathing long, or when the
patient is a great while in taking his breath, diows him to be delirious ;
but eafy
and natural refpirationis always a good fign in acute difeafes. Hippocrates depended
much on the refpiration in making his prognodics ;
and therefore has taken care in
feveral places to defcribe the different manner of a patient’s breathing. Continual
watching in acute difeafes, are figns of prefent pain, or a delirium near at hand*
Hippocrates alfo drew figns from all e.xcrements, whatever they are, that are fepa-
£ rated
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 209
rated from the body of man. His moft remarkable prognoftics, however, were,
from the urine. The patient’s urine, in his opinion, is heft when the fediment is
white, foft to the touch, and of equal confiftence. If it continue fo during the
courfe of the difteniper, and till the time of the crifis, the patient is in no danger,
and will foon be well. This is what Hippocrates called eoncoBed urine, or what
denotes the concodlion of the humours; and he obferved, that this conco6lion of
the urine feldom appeared thoroughly but on the days of the crifis which happily
put an end to the diftemper. We ought (faid Hippocrates) to compare the urine
with the purulent matter which runs from ulcers. As the pus, ivhich is white, and
of the fame quality with the fediment of the urine we are now fpeaking of, is a fign
that the ulcer is on the point of doling, fo that which is clear, and of another co-
lour than white, and of an ill fmell, is a fign that the ulcer is virulent, and there--
fore very difficult to be cured : the urines that are like this we have defcribed
are only thofe which may be named good; all the reft are ill, and differ from one
another only in the degrees of more and lefs. The firft, never appear but when na-
ture has overcome the difeafe ;
and are a fign of the conco6lion of humours, with*-
out which you cannot hope for a certain cure. On the contrary, the laft are made
as long as the crudity remains, and the humours continue unconcoded. Among
the urines of this laft fort, the beft are reddilli, with a fediment that is foft, and.
of an equal confiftence; -which denotes, that the difeafe will be fomewhat tedi-
ous, but without danger. The worft are thofe which are very red, and at the fame
time clear and without fediment; or that are muddy and troubled in. the making.
In urine there is often a fort of cloud hanging in the veffel in wffiieh it is received
the higher this rifes, or the farther diftant it is from the bottom, or the more differ-
ent from the colour of the laudable fediment above-mentioned, the more there is of
crudity. That which is yellow, or of a fandy colour, denotes abundance of bil& ;
;
that which is black is the worft, efpecially if it has an ill fmell, and is cither alto-
gether muddy or altogether clear. That whofe fedimentls like large ground wheat^
.
or little flakes or fcales fpread one upon another, or bran, prefages ill, efpeciailly.
the laft. The fat or oil that fomeliines fwims upon the top of the urine, and ap-
pears in a form fomething like a fpider’s web, is a fign of a confumption of the
fiefli and folid parts. The making of a great quantity of urine is the fign of a orifis,
and fometimes the quality of it ftiows how the bladder is affe6led. We muft alfo -
obferve, that Hippocrates compared the ftate of the tongue with the urine; that is
to fay, wffien the tongue was yellow, and charged with, bile, the urine he kne^v lnu^l^
of courfe be of the fame colour; and, when the tongue was red and moift,',the urine
was of its natural colour. His prognoftics from the excretions by ftool are as follow
:
Thofe that are foft, yellowifti, of fome confiftence, and not of an extraordinary ill
No. 14i 3 H fmell?
gio A KEY TO PHYSIC
fmell, that anfwer to the quantity of what is taken inwardly, and that are
voided at the ufual hours, are the heft of all. They ought alfo to be of a
thicker confiftence when the diftemper is near the crifis ;
and it ought to be
taken for a good prognoflic, when fome worms, round and long, are evacuated
at the fame time with them. The prognofis, however, may ftill be favourable,
though the matter excreted be thin and liquid, provided the evacuation be not in a
very large quantity and too often, fo as to make the patient faint. All matter
that is w'atery, white, of a pale green or red, or frothy and vifcous, is bad.
That which is blackilli, or of a livid hue, is the mod pernicious. That which is
pure black, and nothing elfe but a difcharge of black bile, always prognofticates
very ill; this humour, from what part foever it comes, Ihowing the ill difpofition
of the inteftines. The matter that is of feveral different colours denotes the length
of the diffemper, and, at the fame time, that it may be of dangerous confequence.
Plippocrates places in the fame clafs the matter that is bilious or yellow, mixed
wdth blood, or green and black, or like the dregs or fcrapings of the guts. The
flools that confift of pure bile, or entirely phlegm, he alfo looks upon to be very
bad. Matter caff up by vomiting ought to be mixed with bile and phlegm ;
w here
one of thefe humours only is obferved, it is worfe. That which is black, livid,
green, or the colour of a leek, indicates alarming confequences. The fame is to be
faid of that which fmells very ill ;
and, if at the fame time it be livid, death is not
far off. The vomiting of blood is very often mortal. The fpittings which give
eafe in difeafes of the lungs and in pleurifies, are thole that come up readily and
without difficulty : and it is good if they be mixed at the beginning with much yel-
low” but if they appear of the fame colour, or are red, a great while after the begin-
ning of the diftemper, are fait and acrimonious, and caufe violent coughiiigs, they
are not good. Spittings purely yellow are bad ;
and thofe that are w'hite, vilcous,
and frothy, give no eafe. Whitenefs is a good fign of conco6lion in regard to fpit-
tings; but they ought not all to be vifcous, nor too thick, nor too clear. We
may make the fame judgment of the excrements of the nofe according to their con-
coction and crudity. Spittings that are black, green, and red, are of bad confequence.
In inflammations of the lungs, thofe that are mixed with bile and blood prefage well
if they appear at the beginning, but are bad if they arife not about the feventh day.
But the worft fign in thefe diftempers is, w hen there is no expectoration at all, and
the too great quantity of matter that is ready to be difcharged this way makes a rat-
tling in the bfeaft. After fpitting of blood, the difcharge of purulent matter often
follows, which brings on a confumption, and at laft death. A kind good fweat is
that which arifes on the day of the crifis, and is difcharged in abundance all over the
bodj, and at the fame time from all parts of the body, and thus carries off the fe-
ver.
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 211
ver. A cold fweat is alarming, efpecially in acute fevers, for in others it is only a
iign of long continuance. When the patient fweats no-where but on the head and
neck, it is a fign that the difeafe will be long and dangerous. A gentle fweat in
fome particular part, of the head and breaft for inftance, gives no relief^ but de-
notes the feat of the diflemper, or the weaknefs of the part. This kind of fweat was
called by Hippocrates ephidrojis. The hypochondria, or the abdomen in general,
ought always to be foft and even, as well on the right fide as on the left. When
there is any hardnefs or unevennefs in thofe parts, or heat and fwellings, or when
the patient cannot bear to have it touched, itis a fign the inteftines are indifpofed.
Hippocrates alfo inquired into the ftate of the pulfe, or the beating of the
arteries. The moft ancient phyficians, however, and even Hippocrates himfelf,
for a long time, by this word uiidei ftood the violent pulfation that is felt in an in-
flamed part, without putting the fingers to it. It is observed by Galen, and other
phyficians, that Hippocrates touches on the fubje<5l of the pulfe more flightly than
any other on which he treats. But that our celebrated phyfician underflood fome-
thing even on this fubjedl, is eafily gathered from feveral paffages in his writings
;
as when he obferves, that in acute fevers the pulfe is very quick and very great
;
and when he makes mention, in the fame place, of trembling pulfes, and thofe that
beat flowly; when he obferves, that in fome difeafes incident to women, when the
pulfe flrikes the finger faintly, and in a languifliing manner, it is a fign of approach-
ing death. He remarks alfo, in the Coacae Prcenotiones, that he whofe vein, that is
to fay whofe artery of the elbow, beats, is juft going to run mad, or elfe that the
perfon is at that time very much under the influence of anger. Many other varia-
tions of the pulfe are enumerated by phyficians, but moft of them uncertain, and
not confirmed by experience. See the Article Pulse, in the Medical Part of the
Herbal, p. 106. where the fubjedl is more fully treated.
We fhall now proceed to fome farther remarks on the puognostics of pab-
TICULAll diseases.
The tertian ague hath one prognoftic peculiar to itfelf, namely, dry fcabby ulcers
breaking out upon the lips; thefe fometimes appear about the third or fourth
paroxyfrn; and then we may venture to foretel that the difeafe will go off fponta-
neoufly after the feventh.
The following are the prognoftics of a nervous fever ; and therefore, when they
appear, people ftiould take precautions accordingly, by confulting the Medical Part
of the Herbal, p. 128, for a fafe and certain preventative and cure. The patient at
firft grows fomewhat liftlefs, and feels flight chills, and fliudders, with uncertain
fluflies of heat, and a kind of wearinefs all over, like what is felt after great fatigue.
This is always attended with a fort of hea vinefs and dejeftion of fpirits, and more or^
lefs
21 £ A KEY TO PHYSIC
lefs of a load, pain, or giddinefs of the head;a naufea, ordifrelifh ofevery thing, foort
follows, without any confiderable thirft, but frequently with urging to vomit,
though little but infipid phlegm is brought up. Though a kind of lucid interval
of feveral hours fometimes intervenes, yet the fymptoms return with aggravation,
efpecially towards night; the head grows more giddy or heavy; the heat greater;
the pulfe quicker, but weak ; with an oppreiTive kind of breathing. A great tor-
por, or obtufe pain and coldnefs, atfecls the hinder-part of the head frequently,
and oftentimes a heavy pain is felt on the top all along the coronary future; this,
and that of the back part of the head, generally attend nervous fevers, and are
commonly fucceeded by fome degree of delirium. In this condition the patient
often continues for five or fix days, with a heavy, pale, funk, d;ountenance, feem-
ingly not very fick, and yet far from being well ;
reftlefs, anxious, and common-
ly quite void of deep, though fometipies very drowfy and heavy: but, although he
appears to thofe about him adlually to fleep, he is utterly infenfible of it, and de-
nies that he doth fo. The pulfe during all this time is quick, weak, and unequal
;
fometimes fluttering, and fometimes for a few moments flow; nay, even intermit-
ting, and then, with a fudden flufli in the face, immediately very quick, and per-
haps foon after furprifingly calm and equal ;
and thus alternately.
Prognoftics of a fcarkt fever. With various general fymptoms of fever, the pa-
tient at firft complains of a dejedlion of fpirits, a flight forenefs or rather ftiflhefs in
the neck, with a fenfe of ftraitnefs in the mufcles of the neck and flioulders, as
if they were bound with cords. The fecond day of the fever this forenefs in the
throat increafes, and the patient finds a difficulty in fwallowing ;
but the difficulty
feems lefs occafioned by the pain excited in the attempt, er by the ftraitnefs of the
paflage, than by an inability to throw the neceffary mufcles into a6lion. The fldn
feels hot and dry, but not hard; and the patients experience frequent finall pun-
gent pains, as if touched with the point of a needle. The breath is hot and burn-
ing to the lips, and thirft makes them w iffi to drink ;
but the tendency to ficknefs,
and the exertions neceffary in deglution, are fo unpleafant, that they feldom care to
drink much at a time. They have much uneafinefs alfo from want of reft during
the night. In the morning of the third day, the face, neck, and breaft, appear
redder than ufual : in a few hours this rednefs becomes univerfal ;
and increafes
to fuch a degree of intenfity, that the face, body, and limbs, refemble a boiled lob-
Her in colour, and are evidently fwollen.
The figns of an impending phrenitis, or inflammation ofthe brain, are fully explained
in the Medical Part of this work, p. 1 39. In this difeafe, the following are the moft
fatal fymptoms : A continual and furious delirium, w ith watching; thin watery
1 urine.
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 913
urine, \vhite fasces, the urine and ftools running off involuntarily, or a total fup-
preffion of thefe excretions ;
a difpofition to become ftupid, or to faint, trembling,
rigour, chattering of the teeth, convulfions, hiccough, coldnefs of the extremities,
trembling of the tongue, fhrill voice, a fudden ceffation of pain, with apparent
tranquillity. The following are favourable : Sweats, apparently critical, breaking
out ;
a feeming effort of nature to terminate the difeafe by a diarrhoea : a large
hemorrhage from the nofe ; fwellings of the glands behind the ears ; . hfe-
morrhoids.
A x>ertigo is obferved to be both the fymptom and forerunner of fome dangerous
difeafe; fuch as apoplexy, epilepfy, or hyfteria; haemorrhages from the nofe and
other parts; fuppreffion of the menfes; plethora; fevers, as well as fuch as are
accompanied with debility as thofe in which there is an increafed impetus of the
blood tow'ards the head.—Though a vertigo be for the moft part a fymptoha and con-
comitant of other difeafes, yet it is fometimes a primary difeafe, returning at inter-
vals, increafing gradually, and equally impeding and deftroyihg the funftions of
the body and mind.
A delirium accompanies fevers of many different kinds. Sometimes it is
flight, eafily removed, and fcarcely to be accounted a bad fign. Often, however,,
it is very violent, and one of the very worft of figns, requiring the utmofi care and
attention. A delirium is either fierce or mild. The fierce delirium is preceded and
accompanied by a rednefs of the countenance, a pain of the head, a great beating,
of the arteries, and noife in the ears ;
the eyes in the mean time looking red, infla.-
med, fierce, fliining, and unable to bear the light; there is either no flee p at all,
or deep troubled with horrid dreams ;
the wonted manners are changed, an unu-
fual peeviflinefs and ill-nature prevail. The depravation of judgment is firfl obfer-
ved between deep and waking, and by the perfon’s crediting his, imagination, while
the perceptions of fenfe are neglected, and the ideas of memory occur in an irregular
manner. Fury at lafl takes place, and fometimes an unufual and incredible degree
of bodily ftrength, fo that feveral people can fcarcely keep a fingle patient in his bed".
The mild delirium, on the contrary,, is often accompanied with a weak pulfe, a
pale collapfed countenance, and a vertigo when the patient fits in an eredt pofture ;
he is feldorn angry, but often ftupid, and fometimes remarkably grieved and fear-
ful. The lofs of judgment, as in the former kinds, is firfl perceived when the
patient is half awake; but a temporary recovery enfues upon the admifllon of the
light and the converfation of friends. The patient mutters much to himfelf,
and attends little to the things around him; at lafl, becoming quite fiupid, he nei-
ther feels the fenfation of hunger or third, nor any of the other propenfities of na-
ture, by which means the urine and excrements are voided involuntarily.. As the
No. 14. 3 I diforder.
214 A KEY TO PHYSIC
diforder increafes, it terminates in fubfultus tendinum, tremors, convulfions,
fainting, and death. The other fpecies of delirium alfo frequently terminates in
this, when the fpirits and ftrength of the patient begin to fail. The fymptoms ac-
companying either of thefe kinds of delirium fliow an unufual, inordinate, and une-
qual, motion of the blood through the brain, and a great change in that (late of it
which is neceffary to the exercife of the mental powers. It is fufficiently probable,
that an inflammation of the brain, more or lefs violent and general, fometimes takes
place, although the figns of univerfal inflammation are frequently flight. This we
learn from the diffedtion of dead bodies, which often fliow an univerfal rednefs of
the brain or of fome of its parts, or fometimes an etfufion or fuppuration.
The prognoftics of the malignant, putrid, or ulcerous, fore throat, are very
different in different perfons. Sometimes a rigour, with fulnefs, and forenefs of the
throat and painful ftiffnefs of the neck, are the firft fymptoms complained of.
Sometimes alternate chills and heats, with fome degree of giddinefs, drowfinefs, or
head-ach, uflier in the diftemper. It feizes others with much more feverifli fymp-
toms ;
great pain of the head, back, and limbs ;
a vaft oppreflion of the prascordia,
and continual fighing. Some grown perfons go about for whole days in a droopr
ing ftate, with much uneafinefs and anxiety, till at laft they are obliged to take to
their beds.—Thus various is the difeafe attheonfet. But it commonly begins with
chills and heats, load and pain of the head, forenefs of throat, and hoarfenefs
;
fome cough, ficknefs at ftomach, frequent vomiting and purging, in children
efpecially, and fometimes very fevere; though a contrary ftate is more common to
the adult. There is commonly a very great dejection of fpirits, very fudden weak-
nefs, great heavinefs on the breaft, and faintnefs, from the very beginning. The
pulfe in general is quick, fmall, and fluttering ;
though fometimes heavy and undu-
lating. The eyes heavy, reddifli, and as it were w'eeping ;
the countenance often
full, fluflied, and bloated, though fometimes pale and funk. The following are
the prognoftics in the difeafe:—If a gentle eafy fweat comes on the third or fourth day;
if the pulfe becomes more flow, firm, and equal ;
if the floughs of the fauces call off
in a kindly manner, and appear at the bottom tolerably clean, and florid ;
if the brea-
thing is more foft and free, and fome degree of vigour and quicknefs return in the
eyes; all is well, and a falutary crifis follows foon, by a continuance of the fweat, and
a turbid, fubfiding, farinaceous, urine, a plentiful expeclortion, and a very large
defquamation of the cuticle. But if a rigour comes on, and the exanthemata fud-
denly difappear or turn livid; if the pulfe grows very fmall and quick, and the fkin
remains hot and parched as it w^ere; the breathing more difficult, the eyes dead and
glalfy, the urine pale and limpid; a phrenzy or coma may be expelled to fucceed,
with
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. , 155
with a coldifli clammy fweat on the face or extremities ;
life will now bedefpaired
of, efpecially if a fingultus and choaking or gulping in the throat lliould attend, with
fudden, liquid, involuntary, livid, ftools, intolerably fetid.
Symptoms of the croup, or injiammatmi of the glottis. A hoarfenefs, wdth fome
flirillnefs and ringing found, both in fpeaking and coughing, as if the noife came
from a brazen tube. At the fame time there is a fenfe of pain about the larynx,
fome difficulty of refpiration, with a whizzing found in infpiration, as if the paffage
of the air were flraitened. The cough w'hich attends it is commonly dry ;
and, if
any thing be fpit up, it is a matter of a purulent appearance, and fometimes films
refembling portions of a membrane. With all thefe fyinptoms, there is a frequen-
cy of pulfe, a reftleffnefs, and an uneafy fenfe of heat. When the internal fauces
are viewed, they are fometimes without any appearance of inflammation; but fre-
quently a rednefs, and even fwelling, appears; and fometimes there is an appear-
ance of matter like to that rejedled by coughing, together with the fymptoms now
defcribed, and particularly a great difficulty of breathing, and a fenfe of ftrang-
ling in the fauces, by which the patient is fometimes fuddenly taken off.
In a pleurify, the pathognomonic figns are a cough, a difficulty of breathing, a
pain of the fide, and a continued fever; the adjundl figns are the various forts of
matter expedorated, which are fometimes bloody, fometimes bilious, &c. When
the pa.ins, which at firftaffedted one fide only, fliall afterwards fpread into the other;
or when, leaving the fidefirft affedted, they pafs entirely into the other; thefe are
always marks of a dangerous difeafe. A delirium coming on during a pneumoriic
inflammation is always a fymptom denoting much danger. Bleeding is the re-
medy chiefly to be depended on ;
and may be done in either arm, as the furgeon
finds moft convenient ;
and the quantity taken away ought in general to be as
large as the patient’s ftrength will allow. Yet the patient muft keep out of bed
as much as he can bear; fliould have plenty of warm diluting drinks, impregna-
ted with vegetable acids, accompanied with nitre or fome other cooling neutral fa.lt
;
and the belly alfo ought to be kept open by emollient clyfters or cooling laxative
medicines. Vomiting in the beginning is dangerous ;
but in a fomewhat advan-
ced ftate of the difeafe emetics have been found the bell means of promoting expec-
toration. Fomentations and poultices to the pained part have been found ufeful;
but bliftering is found to be much more effedlual. A blifter, how'ever, ought not
to be applied till at lead one bleeding hath been premifed, as venefedtion is defs ef-
feftual when the irritation of a blifter is prefent. If the difeafe be moderate, a blif-
ter may be applied immediately after the firft bleeding ; but in violent cafes, where
it may be prefumed that a fecond bleeding may foon be neceflary after the firft, it
will
A KEY TO PHYSIC
^16
will be proper to delay the blifter till after the fecond bleeding, when it may be fup-
pofed that the irritation occafioned by the blifter will be over before a third bleed-
ing becomes necelfary. It may frequently be of ufe in this difeafc to repeat the
bliftering; and in that cafe the plafters lliould always be applied fornevvhere on the
thorax, for when applied to more diftant parts they have little ededl. The keep-
ing the bliftered parts open, and making what is called a perpetual blifter, has
much lefs effedl than a repeated bliftering. When this difeafe terminates unfavoura-
bly, it often ends in an empyema, which is occafioned by the effufion of a quantity
of purulent matter into the cavity of the thorax, producing a lingering and painful
diforder, very often incurable. The firft fign of an empyema is a ceffation of the
pain in the breaft, which befofe was continual : this is followed by a fenfation of
weight on the diaphragm; and a fiudluation of matter, fometimes making a noife
that may be heard by the by-ftanders: the acute fever is changed into a hedlic, with
an exacerbation at night: a continual and troublefome dry cough remains. The
refpiration is exceedingly difficult, becaufe the lungs are prevented by the matter
from fully expanding themfelves. The patient can lie eafily on that fide where the
matter is effufed, but not on the other, becaufe then the weight of the matter on
the mediaflinum produces unealinefs. The more the hedlic heat is augmented, the
more is the body emaciated, and its llrength decayed. In fome there is danger of
fuffocation when they ftoop down, which goes off when they alter that pof-
ture o‘f the body ;
and in fome there is a purulent fpitting. —Thefe fymptoms are
accompanied with great anxiety, palpitation of the heart, and faiutings. Very
few recover after an empyema has been once formed, efpecially if the operation
paracenteffs be negledled. After this operation is performed, if a great quantity of
bloody fetid pus be difdiarged, if the fever continue, and if the patient fpit up a
purulentj pale, frothy, livid, or green, matter, with a decay of ffrength, there is
no hope; but, when a fmall quantity of pus, of a white colour, not very fetid, is dif-
charged ;
when the fever and thirft prefentiy ceafe, the appetite returns, and fmces
of a good confiftence are difeharged, the ffrength aifo returning in fome degree;
there is then hope of a perfedl recovery. If the matter be not dried up in feven weeks
time, the difeafe readily changes to a fiffulous ulcer, which is very difficult to cure.
An empyema affedling both ffdes of the thorax is more dan'ierous than tliat which
affeds only one.
The injlammalion of the heart is attended with all the fyui})toms before mention-
ed, but in a higher degree; it is beffdes Ibmetimcs acconq-anied witlrhydrophobic
fymptoms, fainting, palpitation of the heart, a feeniing madnefs, a funk and
irregular pulfe, watery eyes, and a dejedted countenance, with a dry black tongue.
i The
AND THE OCCtTLT SCIENCES. Sir
The figns of an inflammation of the Jiomiach are, great heat and pain in the
epigaftric region, extreme anxiety, an aknoft continual and painful hiccough, with
a moft painful vomiting of every thing taken into the ftomach. '
This difeafe is
always very dangerous, and the progncfis doubtful, which alfo muft always be in
proportion to the feverity of the fymptoms. A ceffation of pain, coldnefs about the
praecordia, great debility, with a languid and intermitting pulfe, and an abatement
of the hiccough, denote a gangrene and fpeedy death. From the fenfibility of the
flomach alfo, and its great connection with the reft of the fyftem, it muft be obvious
that an inflammation of it, by whatever caufes produced, may be attended with fatal
confequences ;
particularly by the great debility it produces, it may prove fuddenly
fatal, without running through the ufual courfe of inflammations.—Its tendency to
admit of refolution may be known by its having arifen from no violent caufe, by the
moderate ftate of the fymptoms, and by a gradual remiflion of thefe in the courfe
of the firft or at moft of the fecond week of the difeafe. The tendency to gangrene
may be fufpeCled from the fymptoms continuing with unremitting violence, not-
withftanding the ufe of proper remedies ; and a gangrene already begun may be
known by the fymptoms above-mentioned, particularly great debility and fudden
ceffation of pain. The tendency to fuppuration may be known by the fymptoms
continuing but in a moderate degree for more than one or two weeks, and by a
confiderable remiffion of the pain, while a fenfe of weight and anxiety ftill remains.
When an abfcefs has been formed, the frequency ofthe pulfe is firft abated, but foon
after it increafes, with frequent cold ftiivering, and an exacerbation in the after-
noon and evening ;
followed by night-fweats, and other fymptoms of heClic fever.
Thefe at length prove fatal, unlefs the abfcefs open into the cavity of the ftomach,
the pus be evacuated by vomiting, and the ulcer foon healed.
An inflammation of the inteflines ftiows itfelf by a fixed pain in the abdomen,
attended with fever, vomiting, and coftivenefs. The pain is often felt in different
parts of the abdomen, but more frequently fpreads over the whole, and is particu-
larly violent about the navel. Inflammations of the inteftines may arife from the
fame caufe as thofe from the ftomach; though commonly the former will more rea-
dily occur from cold applied to the lower extremities, or to the belly itfelf. It is
alfo found fupervening on the fpafmodic cholic, incarcerated hernia, and volvulus.
The inflammations of the inteftines have the fame termination with thofe of the
ftomach ;
and the prognofis in both cafes is much the fame.
Inflammation of the liver is attended with confiderable fever; a frequent, ftrong,
and hard, pulfe; high-coloured urine ;
an acute pain in the right hypochondrium,
increafed by preffmg upon the part. The pain is very often in fuch a part of the fide
as to make it appear like a pleurify : and frequently, like that, is iucreafed on infpi-
No. U. ^
3 K - ration.
218 A KEY TO PHYSIC
ration. The difeafe is alfo commonly attended with a cough, which is generally
dry, but fometimes moift ;
and, when the pain thus refembles a pleurify, the patient
cannot lie eafily except upon the fide afFe6led. The pain is frequently extended to
the clavicle, and to the top of the fhoulder; and is attended fometimes with hic-
cough, and fometimes with vomiting. The intlammation of the liver, like others,
may end by refolution, fuppuration, or gangrene; and the tendency to the one or
to the other of thofe events may be known from what has been already mentioned.
Injiamrnation of the fpleen, comes on with a remarkable Ihivering, fucceeded by a
moft intenfe heat and very great third; a pain and tumour are perceived in the left
hypochondrium, and the paroxyfms for the mod part aifume a quartan form. When
the patients expofe thetnfelves for a little to the free air, their extremities immediately
grow very cold. If an htemorrage happens, the blood flows out of the left noftril.
It is often a very difficult matter to didinguilh rheumatifm from gout ; but in
rheumatifm there in general occurs much lefs affedlion of the domach ;
it affedls
chiefly the large joints, and often feveral of them at the fame time: it occurs at an
earlier period of life than gout; it is notobferved to be hereditary ;
and it can in ge-
neral be traced to fome obvious exciting caufe, particularly to the action of cold. To
didinguilh the chronic rheumatifm from the acute ; When the pains are dill ready to
fhift their place ;
when they are efpecially fevere in the night-time ;
when, at the
fame time, they are attended with fome degree of pyrexia, and withTome fwelling,
and efpecially fome rednefs, of the joints; the difeafe is to be confidered as partaking
of the nature of the acute rheumatifm. But when there is no longer any degree of
pyrexia remaining ;
when the pained joints are without rednefs; w'hen they are cold
and diff; when they cannot eafily be made to fweat; or when, while a free and warm
fweat is brought out on the red of the body, it is only clammy and cold on the pain-
ed joints; and when, farther, the pains of thefeare increafed by cold, and relieved by
heat, applied to them, the cafe is to be confidered as that of a purely chronic rheu-
matifm; or perhaps more properly the fird of the conditions now defcribed may
be termed the date of irritability, and the fecond the date of atony. The chronic
rheumatifm, or rather the atonic, may affeft different joints; but is efpecially apt to
affe6l thofe which are furrounded w’ith many mufcles,and thofe ofwhich the mufcles are
employed in the mod condant and vigorous exertions. Such is the cafeof the vertebrc
of the loins, the affedlion of w'hich is namd lumbago ; or of the hip-joint, when the
difeafe is named ifchias or fciatica. Violent drains and fpafms, occurring on fudden
and fomewhat violent exertions, bring on rheumatic aflfe6lions, which at fird partake
of the chronic rheumatifm. Such are frequently the lumbago, and other affections
which feem to be more feated in the mufcles than in the joints. The diflinCtion of the
rheumatic pains from thofe referabling them which occur in the fiphilis and fcurvy
2 mud
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 219
rnuft be obvious, either from the feat of the pains or from the concomitant fymp-
toms peculiar to thofe difeafes.
What we call a paroxyfm of the gout is principally conftituted by an inflammatory
aflfedtion of fome of the joints. This fornetimes comes on fuddenly, without any
warning, but is generally preceded by feveral fymptoms ;
fuch as the ceafing of
a fweating which the feet had been commonly affected with beforp; an unufual
coidnefs of the feet and legs; a frequent numbnefs, alternating with a fenfe of
pricking along the whole of the lower extremities; frequent cramps of the
mufcles of the legs ;
and an unufual turgefcence of the veins. While thefe
fymptoms take place in the lower extremities, the body is affedted with fome
degree of torpor and languor, and the fundtions of the ftomach in particular
are more or lefs difturbed. The appetite is diminiflied ;
and flatulency, or
other fymptoms of indigeftipn, are felt. Thefe fymptoms take place for feveral
days, fornetimes for a week or two, before a paroxyfm comes on; but commonly,,
upon the day immediately preceding it, the appetite becomes keener than ufual.
.It is generally fuppofed, that there are fome cafes of rheumatifm which are fcarcely
to be diftinguiflied from the gout : thefe, however, Dr. Cullen thinks, are but few;
and that the two difeafes may be for the moft part diftinguifhed with great certainty,,
by obferving the pre-difpofition, the antecedent circumftances, the part aftedfed,
the recurrences of the difeafe, and its connexion with the fyftem; which circum-
ftances, for the moft part, appear very differently in the two difeafes.
Prognoftics that a perfon is affedled with ihe plague
:
1. Great lofs of ftrength. 2.
Stupor, giddinefs, and confequent ftaggering, which refembles drunkennefs; or the
head-ach and various delirium. 3. Anxiety, palpitation, fyncope, and efpecially
the weaknefs and irregularity of the pulfe, denoting a confiderable difturbance in the
adlion of the heart. 4. Naufea and vomiting, particularly the vomiting of bile,
which fhow an accumulation of vitiated bile in the gall-bladder and biliary du6fs,
and from thence derived into the inteftines and ftomach; which alfo denote a con-
fiderable fpafm, and lofs of tone in the extreme veftels on the furface of the body,.
The fmall-pox begins with a fynocha, or inflammatory fever. It generally comes
on about mid-day, with fome fymptoms of a cold ftage, and commonly with a con-
fiderable languor and drowfinefs. A hot ftage is foon formed, and becomes more
confiderable on the fecond and third day. During this eourfe children are liable tO:
frequent ftartings from their {lumbers; and adults, if they are kept in bed, are dif-
pofed to much fweating. On the third day, children are fpmetimes affected with
one or two epileptic fits; and towards the end of the third day the eruption commonly
appears. The principal marks by which the cMcken-pox may be diftinguiflied from
the fmall-pox are, L The appearance, on the fecond or third day of the eruption,
of that veficie full of ferum upon the top of the pock. 2. The cruft, which covers
the
220 A KEY TO PHYSIC
the pocks on the fifth day; at which time thofe ofthe fmall-pox are not at the height
of their fuppuration. Foreign medical writers hardly ever mention the name of
the chicken-pox; and the writers of our own country fcarcely mention any thing more
of it than its name. Morton fpeaks of it as if he fuppofed it to be a very mild genuine
fmall-pox. But thefe two diftempers are furely totally different from one another>
not only on account of their different appearances above-mentioned, but becaufe
thofe who have had the fmall-pox are capable of being infefted with the chicken-
pox; but thofe who have once had the chicken-pox arenot capable of havingit again,
though to fuch as have never had this diflemper it feems as infe6tious as the fmall-
pox. Dr. Heberden wetted a thread in the moft conceded pus-like liquor of the
chicken-pox which he could find ; and, after making a flight incifion, it was con-
fined upon the arm of one who had formerly had it; the little wound healed up imme-
diately, and fhowed no figns of any infedion. From the great fimilitude between the
two diftempers, it is probable, that, inftead of the fmall-pox, fome perfons have
been inoculated from the chicken-pox ; and that the diflemper which has fuc-
eeeded has been miftaken for the fmall-pox by hafty or inexperienced obfervers.
It is a promifing fign, in the palfy, when the patient feels a flight degree of pain-
ful itching in the affeded parts; and, if a fever fliould arife, it bids fair to cure the
palfy. When the fenfe of feeling remains, there is much more room to hope for a
cure than when it is gone, as well as the power of motion. But, when we obferve
the flefh to wafte, and the fkin to appear withered and dry, we may look upon the
difeafe to be incurable. Convulfions fupervening on a palfy are a fatal fign.
When/flf«/m^ happens in the beginning of any acute diflemper, it is not a good
omen ;
but, when it takes place in the increafe or at the height of the difeafe, the
danger is fomewhat lefs ; but in general, when fainting comes on without any evi-
dent caufe, it is to be dreaded. In violent haemorrhages it is favourable ; as the
bleeding veflels gain time to contrad and recover themfelves, and thus the patient
may efcape. When perfons of a full habit faint through excefs of paflion, they
ought to be bled without delay, and fhould drink vinegar or lemon-juice diluted
with water; and, after the bowels are emptied .by a clyller, take a paregoric
draught, and go to bed.
Prognoftics from convuljions. Except in fome few cafes, convulfive diforders
are always to be dreaded ;
but lefs in young people than in fuch as are advanced in
life. Thofe which attack girls under the age of puberty will generally ceafe on the
appearance of the menfes; and boys have likewife a chance of being relieved as they
advance in life: but in grown-up people, unlefs the caufe be very evident, a cure
is hardly to be expe6led, efpecially after the difeafe has been of long continuance.
The treatment is much the fame with that of epilepfy.
The
221
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES.
The epUepfy frequently is preceded by a pain in the head, larftitUde, fome diftur-
batice of the fenfes, unquiet fleep, unufual dread, dimnefs of fight, a noife in the
ears, palpitation of the heart, coldnefs of the joints; and in fome there is a fenfa-
tion of formication, or a cold-air, &c. afcending from the lower extremities to-
ward the head. It the epilepfy comes on before the tinae of puberty, there are
fome hopes of its going off at that time. But it is a bad fign when it attacks
about the twenty-firft year, and flill worfe if the fits grow more frequent ; for
then the animal fundlions are often deftroyed, as well as thofe of the mind, and
the patient becomes ftupid and foolifli. Sometimes it will terminate in melan-
choly or madnefs, and fometimes in a mortal apoplexy or palfy. It has fometimes,
however, been obferved that epilepfies have been removed by the appearance of
cutaneous difeafes, as the itch, fmall-pox, meafles, &c. therefore, if any of thefe
appear, it may be reckoned a favourable prognoftic.
Signs of a diabetes. —The diabetes firfl fhows itfelf by a drynefs of the mouth
and thirft, white frothy fpittle, and the urine in fomewhat larger quantity than
ufual. A heat begins to be perceived in the bowels, which at firft is a little pun-
gent, and gradually increafes. The thirft continues to augment by degrees, and
the patient by degrees lofes the power of retaining his urine for any length of
time. The moft Angular phenomenon in this difeafe is, that the urine feems to be
entirely or very much divefted of an animal nature, and to be largely impregna-
ted with a faccharine fait, fcarcely diftinguiftiable from that obtained from the
fugar-cane. For this difcovery we are indebted to Dr. Dobfon of Liverpool, who
made fome experiments on the urine of a perfon labouring under a diabetes, who
difcharged 28 pints of urine every day, taking during the fame time from 12 to 14
pounds only of folid and liquid food. When a perfon perceives any of the before-
mentioned fymptoms upon him, (particularly the quantity and infipidity of the
brine,) he ftiould lofe no time in taking the proper precautions ;
for the diabetes
is rarely cured unlefs when taken at the very beginning, which is feldom done.
Briftol water is reckoned a fpecific in this diforder.
Hydrophobia. —This difeafe commonly does not make its attacks till a confidera-
ble time after the bite. In fomo few inftances it has commenced in feven or eight
days from the accident; but generally the patient continues in health for twenty,
thirty, or forty, days, or even much longer. The wound, if not prevented, will in
general be healed long before that time, frequently with the greatefteafe ;
though
fometimes it refifts all kinds of healing applications, and forms a running ulcer,
which difchargcs a quantity of matter for many days. It has been faid, that the
nearer the wounded place is to the falivary glands, the fooner the fymptoms of hy-
drophobia appear. The approach of the difeafe is known by the cicatrix of the
,No. 15. ^ L wound
228
'
A KEY TO PHYSIC
wound becoming iiard and elevated, and by a peculiar fenfe of pricking at the
part ;
pains llioot from it towards the throat ; fometimes it is furrounded with
livid or red ftreaks, and feems to be in a ftate of inflammation ; though frequently
there is nothing remarkable to be obferved about it. The patient becomes melan-
choly, loves folitude, and has ficknefs at ftoraach. Sometimes the peculiar fymp-
tom of the difeafe, the dread of water, comes on all at once. We have an in-
ftance of one who, having taken a vomit of ipecacuanha for the ficknefs he felt at
his ftomach, was feized with the hydrophobia at the time he was drinking the vvarm
water. Sometimes the difeafe begins like a common fore throat; and, the forenefs
daily increafing, the hydrophobic fymptoms fliow themfelves like a convulfive
fpafm of the mufcles of the fauces. In others, the mind feems to be primarily
affe6led, and they have a real dread of water or any liquid before they try whether
they cun fvvallow it or not. Dr. James, in his Treatife on Canine Madnefs, men-
tions a boy fent out to fill two bottles with water, who was fo terrified by the
noife of the liquid running into them, that he fled into the houfe crying out that
he was bewitched. He mentions alfo the cafe of a farmer, who, going to draw fome
ale from a cafk, was terrified to fuch a degree at its running into the veffcl, that he
ran out in great hafte with the fpigot in his hand. But, in whatever manner this
fymptom comes on, it is certain that the mofi: painful fenfations accompany every
attempt to fvvallow liquids. Nay, the bare fight of water, of a looking-glafs, or of
any thing clear or pellucid, will give the utmoft uneafinefs, and even throw the
patient into convulfions. With regard to the affection of the mind itfelf in this
difeafe, it does not appear that the patients arc deprived of reafon. Some have,
merely by the dint of refolution, conquered the dread of water, though they never
could conquer the convulfive motions which the contaft of liquids oeeafioned :
yet even this refolution has been of no avail ;
for the convulfions and other fymp-
toms, increafing, have almofl always deftroyed the unhappy patients, Howeveiv
in this diflemper the fymptoms are fo various, that they cannot be enumerated ;
for we feldom read two cafes of hydrophobia which do not differ very remarka-
bly in this refpedt. When a perfon is bitten, the prognofis with regard to the en-
fuing hydrophobia is very uncertain. All thofe who are bit do not fall into the
difeafe ;
nay, Dr. Vaughan relates that, out of thirty bitten by a mad dog, only
one was feized with the hydrophobia. During the interval betwixt the bite and
the time of the difeafe comes on, there are no fymptoms by which we can cer-
tainly judge whether it will appear or not.
Prognoftics of a dropfy of the hreajt. —This affedlion, particularly with refpe6l
to its caufes, is in many circumftances ffmilar to other kinds of dropfy, particularly
to afcite9. But from the fxtuation of the water, which is here depofited in the cavity
of
AND TH^ OCCULT SCIENCES. fi23
of the thorax, it may naturally be fuppofed that fotne peculiar fymptofns will occur.
Befides the common fymptoms of dropfy, (palenefs of the countenance, fcarcity of
urine, and the like,) this difeafe is, in fome in fiances, attended with a fluctuation of
AVater wuthin the breafi; which, vvhen it does occur, may be confidered as a certain
diftinguifliing mark of this affeCtion. But, befides this, it is alfo diftinguifhed by
the remarkable affeCliqns of circulation and refpiration Avith which it is attended.
The breathing is peculiarly difficult, efpecially in a recumbent pofiure; and in
many inftances patients cannot breathe Avith tolerable eafe unlefs when fitting ereCl,
or even ftooping fomewhat forward. The pulfe is very irregutar, and has often
remarkable intermifiions. But the difeafe has been thought to be principally cha-
racterized by a fudden ftartingfrom deep, in confequence of an almofliinexpreffible
uneafy fenfation referred to the breafi, and attended with ftrong palpitatiouj which
may probably arife from an affeCtion either of circulation or of refpiratiom That
thefe fymptoms are common attendants of this difeafe is undeniable;, and they,
are certainly the befi charaCteriftics of it with which we are yet acquainted : but
it mu ft be allowed that they are prefent in fome cafes where there is nowater in
the breafi ;
and that in other infiances, Avhere the difeafe exifis, they are either alto-
gether wanting, or occur only in a very flight degree. Certain diagnoftics, there-
fore, of this difeafe ftill remain to be difcovered. When hydrothorax is prefent,
.
from the affeCtion of the vital functions with which it is attended, it may readily be
concluded that it is a dangerous difeafe; and in many infiances it proves fatal. The
cure, as far as it can be accompli flied, is obtained very much oa the fame principles
as in other dropfies. Benefit is often obtained from an artificial difchargeof water
by the application of blifters to the breafi;- but in this, as well as other dropfies, a
difcharge is chiefly effected by the natural outlets, particularly from the ufe of ca-
thartics and diuretics.. In this fpecies of dropfy,. more perhaps than in any other,
recourfe has been had to the ufe of the dii^j^lis pprpurea, or fox-glove, fo firongly
recommended as a diuretic by D.r. Withering ;n.his;Treatife refpeCting the ufe ofit.
There can be no doubt that thisifthoug^ fometiipes productive of inconvenience,,
from the diftreffing ficknefs and feA^j^jll^^i^^m^it not unfrequently excites,
even in fmall dofes, often op^r^t^|H^^9HjS||i|^i uretic, and produces a
complete evacuation ^
of water, a|t^',pi|^^^^^^^^:iave failed. From the
effects mentioned above,..dmwever),te^n|N^^^^HHP^s influence on the pulfe,
which it renders much floAA^^I|P|8^i^ii^^a^^P^rould be employed with great
caution and in fmall dofes. A of the fine^iekves of the digitalis, macerated
for four hours in half a pinl;^Qf water, forrhs aH4nfufipn; which may be given
in dofes of an ounce, and the ^led^owder of the leaVes ih dofesofone or two grains:
thefe dofes may be gradually increafed, and repeated twice or oftener in the dayj
but
22i A KEY TO PHYSIC
but this requires to be done with great caution, left fevere vomiting or other dif-
trelling fymptoms ftiould take place.
Scuny.
—
The firft indication of the fcorbutic diathefis is generally a change of
colour in the face, from the natural and healthy look to a pale and bloated com-
plexion, with a liftleflhefs, and averfion from every fort of exercife ;
the gums
foon after become itchy, fwell, and are apt to bleed on the flighteft touch ; the
breath grows offenfive; and the gums, fwelling daily more and more, turn livid,
and at length become extremely fungous and putrid, as being continually in conta6l
with the external air; which in every cafe favours the putrefa6lion of fubftances
difpofed to run into that ftate, and is indeed abfolutely requifite for the produftion
ef a6tual rottennefs. The fymptoms of the fcurvy, like thofe of every other dif-
eafe, are fomewhat different in different fubje6ts, according to the various circum-
ftances of conftitution; and they do not always proceed in the fame regular courfc
in every patient. But what is very remarkable in this difeafe, notwithftanding the
various and immenfe load of diftrefs under which the patients labour, there is no
ficknefs at the ftomach, the appetite keeps up, and the fenfes remain entire almoft
to the very laft ; when lying at reft, they make no complaints, and feel little diftrefs
or pain: but, the moment they attempt to rife or ftir themfelves, then the breathing
becomes difficult, with a kind of ftraitnefs or catching, and great oppreffion, and
fometimes they have been known to fall into a fyncope. This catching of the
breath upon motion, with the lofs of ftrength, dejection of fpirits, and rotten
gums, are held as the effential or diftinguifliing fymptoms of the difeafe.
Thejaundice firft ftiows itfelf by a liftleflhefs and want of appetite : the patient
becomes dull, opprefled, and generally coftive. Thefe fymptoms have continued
but a very fliort time, when a yellow colour begins to diffufe itfelf over the tunica
albuginea, or white part of the eye, and the nails of the fingers ;
the urine becomes
l)igh coloured, with a yellowifh fediment capable of giving a yellow tint to linen ;
the ftools are whitifh or grey. In forae there is a moft violent pain in the epigaftric
region, which is confiderably increafed after meals. In fome the difeafe degenerates
into an incurable dropfy; and there have been many inftances of people who
have died ofthe di’opfy after the ja^fdice itfelf had been totally removed. The com-
ing on of a gentle diarrhoea, attfeiKreclvvrith bilious ftools, together with the ceflation
of pain, are figns of the difeafe being cured. We are not, however, always to con-
clude, becaufe the difeafe is not attended '^s itlxacute pain, that it is therefore incura-
ble; for frequently the paflage ofa 'Concretion through the biliary du6ls is accompa-
nied only with a fenfation of flight uneafinefs. the difeafe goes off, its return
muft he prevented by a courfe of tonic medicines, particularly the Peruvian bark
and antifepties: but we can by no means be certain that the jaundice will not return,
7 ,an(?
/
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. ,
, 225
and that at any interval ;
for there may be a number of concretions in the gall-
bladder, and, though one hath paffed, another may very quickly follow', and pro-
duce a new fit of jaundice ;
and thus fome people have continued to be aftefted
with the diftemper, at fliort intervals, during life.
Stone in the blackler. —The figns of a flone in the bladder are, pain, efpecially
about the fphindler; and bloody urine, in confequence of i;iding or being joked
in a carriage: a fenfe of weight in the perinseum ;
an itching of the glans penis ;
flimy fediment in the urine; and frequent floppages in making water; a tenef-
mus alfo comes on while the urine is difcharged.
Imaginary xijion of objects which do not exift. —This often takes place when
the body is difeafed, and then the patient is faid to be delirious. Sometimes
however, in thefe cafes, it does not amount to delirium; but tlie perfon imagines
he fees gnats or other infects flying before his eyes ;
or fometimes, that every
thing he looks at has black fpots in it, which laft is a very dangerous fign. Some-
times alfo fparks of fire appear before his eyes; which appearances are not to be
difregarded, as they frequently precede apoplexy or epilepfy : on the other hand,
it is feared that little benefit can be derived from an attention to this prognollic,
as the fits commonly follow fo fuddenly.
I fhall now proceed to defcribe two diforders not noted by Culpeper, or any
old writer. And firft of the
ANGINA PECTORIS.
Dr. Heberden was the firft who defcribed this difeafe, though it is extremely
dangerous, and, by his account, not very rare. It feizes thofe who are fub-
jedf to it when they are walking, and particularly when they walk foon after
eating, with a moft difagreeable and painful fenfation in the breaft, which feems
to threaten immediate defti'udlion : but, the moment they ftand ftill, all the
uneafinefs vanilhes. In all other refpedts the patients at the beginning of
this diforder are well, and have no fliortnefs Sf breath After it has conti-
nued fome months, the fits will not ceafe Inftantaneoufly on ftanding ftill ;
and it will come on not only when the patients are walking, but when they are
lying down, and oblige them to rife up out of their beds every night for many
months together. In one or two verv inveterate cafes, it has been brought on by the
motion of a horfe or carriage, and even by fwailowing, coughing, going to ftool^
fpeaking, or by any difturbance of mind. The pcrfons affedted were all men, al-
moft all of whom were above fifty years of age, and moft of them with a fliort neck
No. 15. 3 M andi
226 A KEY TO PHYSIC
and inclining to be fat. Something like it, however, was obferved in one wo-
man, who was paralytic ;
and one or two young men complained of it in a flight
degree. Other praSdtioners have obferved it in very young perfons. When a fit
of this fort comes on by walking, its duration is very fhort, as it goes off almofl
immediately upon flopping. If it comes on in the night, it will lafl an hour or
two. Dr. Heberden met with one in whom it once continued for feveral days
;
during all which time the patient feemed to be in imminent danger of death. Mofl
of thofe attacked with the diftemper died fuddenly: though this rule w'as not
without exceptions ;
and Dr. Heberden obferved one Avho funk under a lingering
illnefs of a different nature. The os flerni is ufually pointed to as the feat of this
malady ;
but it feems as if it was under the lower part of that bone, and at other
times under the middle or upper part, but always inclining more to the left fide
;
and in many cafes there is joined with it a pain about the middle of the left
arm, which appears to be feated in the biceps mufcle.
The appearance of Dr. Heberdeifs paper in the Medical Tranfadlions very foon
raifed the attention of the faculty, and produced other obfervations from phyficians
of eminence; namely, Dr. Fothergill, Dr. Wall of Worcefler, Dr. Haygarth of
Chefler, and Dr. Percival of Manchefler. It alfo induced an unknown fufferer to
write Dr. Heberden a very fenfible letter, defcribing his feelings in the mofl natural
manner; which unfortunately, in three w'eeks after the date of this anonymous
epiftie^ terminated in a fudden death, as the writer himfelf had apprehended. The
youngefl fubjedlthat Dr. Fothergill ever faw afflidled with this diforder was about
thirty years of age; and this perfon was cured. The method that fucceeded him
w'as a courfe of pills, cornpofed of the mafs of gum-pill, foap, and native cinnabar,
with a light chalybeate bitter : this was continued for fome months, after which he
went to Bath feveral fuccefiive feafons, and acquired his ufual health : he was or-
dered to be very fparing in his diet; to keep the bowels open; and to ufe moderate
exercife on horfeback, but not to take long or fatiguing walks. The only fymp-
tom in this patient that is mentioned, was a flri6lure about the cheft, which came
on if he was walking up hill or a little fafter than ordinary, or if he was riding a
very brifk trot ;
for moderate exercife of any kind did not affed him ;
and this un-
eafy fenfation always obliged him to flop, as he felt himfelf threatened with imme-
diate death if he had continued to go forwards. It is the fliarp conftridive pain
acrofs the cheft, that (according to Dr. Fothergill’s obfervation) particularly marks
this fingular difeafe; and which is apt to fupervene upon a certain degree of mufcu-
lar motion, or whatever agitates the nervous fyftem. In fuch cafes as fell under the
infpedion of Dr. Fothergill, he very feldom met with one that was not attended with
an irregular and intermitting pulfe; and this, not only during the exacerbations,
but
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. S27
but often when the patient was free from pain and at reft; but Dr. Heberden ob-
ferves, that the pulfe is, at leaft fometimes, not difturbed ;
and mentions his having
once had an opportunity of being convinced of this circumftance, by feeling the
pulfe during the paroxyfm. But no doubt thefe varieties, as well as many other
little circumftances, will occur in this difeafe, as they do in every other, on account
of the diverfity of the human frame ;
and, if thofe which in general are found to
predominate and give the diftinguifhing chara(5ter be prefent, they will always au-
thorife us in giving the name to the difeafe ; thus, when we find the conftric-
tory pain acrofs the cheft, accompanied with a fenfe of ftrangling or fuffocation ;
and ftill more, if this pain fliould ftrike acrofs the breaft into one or both arms;
we ftiould not hefitate to pronounce the cafe an angina peftoris.
As to the nature of this difeafe, it appears to be purely fpafmodic : and this opi-
nion will readily prefent itfelf to any one who confiders the fudden manner of its
coming on and going off ;
the long intervals of perfe6l eafe ;
the relief afforded by
wine and fpirituous cordials ;
the influence which paffionate affe(5lions of the mind
have over it ;
the eafe which comes from varying the pofture of the head and flioul-
ders, or, from remaining quite motionlefs ;
the number of years for which it will con-
tinue, without otherwife difordering health; its bearing fo well the motion of a horfe
or carriage, which circumftance often diftinguifhes fpafmodic pains from thofe
which arife from ulcers; and laftly, its coming on for the moft part after a full meal,
and in certain patients at night, juft after the firft fleep, at which time the incubus,
convulfive aftbma, and other ills juftly attributed to the difordered functions of
the nerves, are peculiarly apt to return or to be aggravated. From all thefe cir-
cumftances taken together, there can be little doubt that this affe6lion is of a fpafmo-
dic nature: but, though this ftiould be admitted, it may not be fo eafy to afcertain the
particular mufcles which are thus affeded. The violent fenfe offtrangling or choak-
ing which ftiows the circulation through the lungs to be interrupted during the
height of the paroxyfm; and the peculiar conftridlive pain under the fternum, al-
ways inclining (according to Dr. Heberden’s obfervation) to the left fide ; together
with that moft, diftrefling and alarming fenfation, which, if it were to increafe or con-
tinue, threatens an immediate extinftion of life ;
might authorife us to conclude
that the heart itfelf is the mufcle affected: theonly obje6lionto this idea (and, if it had
been conftantly obferved, it would be infurmountable) is, that the pulfe is not always
interrupted during the paroxyfm. The appearances in two of the diffe6tions favour
the opinion that the fpafm affe6ls the heart; as in one fubje6l the left ventricle (and,
though it be not mentioned, we may prefume the right one alfo) was found as empty
of blood as if it had been waftied; and in another, the fubftance of the heart appeared
whitifli, not unlike a ligament ;
as it ftiould feem, in both cafes, from the force
of
228 A KEY TO PHYSIC
of the fpafm fqueezing the blood out from the veffels and cavities. If this hypothefis
be allowed, we muft conclude that the fpafm can only take place in an inferior de-
gree, as long as the patient continues to furvive the paroxyfm; lince an affe6tion o^
this fort, and in this part, of any confiderable duration or violence, muft inevitably
prove fatal: and accordingly, as far as could be traced, the perfons who have been
known to labour under this difeafe'have in general died fuddenly. The diffe6tions
alfo lliow, that, whatever may' be the true feat of the fpafm, it is not necetfary for the
bringing of it on, that the heart, or its immediate appendages, lliould be in a mor-
bid flate; for in three out of the fix that have as yet been made public, thefe parts
were found in a found (late. On opening the body of the gentleman who wrote
the letter to Dr Heberden, “ upon the moft cartful examination, no manifeft caufe
of his death could be difcovered ;
the heart, in particular, with its veffels and valves,
w ere all found in a natural condition.” In the cafe communicated by Dr. Percival
to the publilhers of the Edinburgh Medical Commentaries, “ the heart and aorta
delcendens w^ere found in a found Hate.” And in Dr. Haygarth’s patient, on open-
ing the thorax, the lungs, pericardium, and heart, appeared perfe6lly found.
Not to mention Dr. Fothergill’s patient (R. M.), in whofe body the only morbid
appearance about the heart was a fmall white fpot near the apex. So that the
caufe, whatever its nature might have been, was at too great a diftance, or of too
fubtle a nature, to come under the infpedlion of the anatomift. But there was
a circumflance in two of the fubje6ls that is wmrthy of remembrance; and w'hich
fhows that the crafis of the blood, while they were living, muft have been great-
ly injured ;
namely, its not coagulating, but remaining of a cream-like confiftence,
without any feparation into ferum and craffamentum.
From all that we have feen hitherto publiflied, it does not appear that any confi-
derable advances have been made towards the a6tual cure of this anomalous fpafm.
The very Judicious and attentive Dr. Heberden (to whom the public are highly in-
debted for firfi; making the diforder known) confefles, that bleeding, vomits, and
other evacuations, have not appeared to do any good : wine and cordials, taken at
bed-time, will fometimes prevent or weaken the fits ;
but nothing does this'fo effec-
tually as opiates: in fliort, the medicine^ ufually called nervous or cordial,, fuch as
relieve and quiet convulfive motions, and invigorate the languifhing principle of
life, are what he recommends. Dr. "Wall mentions one patient, out of the twelve
or thirteen that he had feen, who applied to him early in the difeafe, and was relieved
confiderably by the ufe of antimonial medicines joined with the fetid gums: he was
ftill living at the time the dodlor wrote his paper, (Nov. 1772.) and going about
with tolerable eafe. Two were carried off by other diforders; all the refl died fud-
denly. Dr. Fothergill’s directions are chiefly calculated with the view to prevent the
7 diforder
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 229
diforder from gaining ground, and to alleviate prefent diftrefs. Accordingly he
enjoins fuch a kind of diet as may be moft likely to prevent irritability : in particu-
lar not to eat voracioully : to be ftridly abftemious in refpeft to every thing
heating j
fpices, fpirits, wines, and all fermented liquors: to guard moll fcrupu-
loufly againll paffion, or any vehement emotions; and to make ufe of all theufual
means of eftablifhing and preferving general health ;
to mitigate excelfes of irritabi-
lity by anodynes ;
or pains, if they quicken the circulation : to difperfe flatulencies,
when they diftend the ftomach, by moderate dofesof carminatives; amongft which,
perhaps, Ample peppermint-water may be reckoned one of the fafeft. But, fince
obefity is juftly confidered as a principal predifpofing caufe, he infills ftrongly on
the necellity of preventing an increafe of fat by a vegetable diet, and uling every
other pra6licable method of augmenting the thinner fecretions. Thefe were the
only means which occurred to the Englilh phylicians of oppoling this formidable
difeafe.—In my own pra6lice I have never known the Solar Tin6lure to fail in remo-
ving by degrees this dangerous diforder. The cafes indeed that have occurred to
me have been very few ;
and my uniform practice has been to order a wine-glafs of
the Tindlure, diluted with water, to be taken at going to bed ;
and, in thofe where
the diforder had gained great afcendency, I prefcribed a like quantity to be taken
at getting up in the morning, at leall an hour before breakfall. This has always
rendered the attacks lefs violent, and at lall totally removed them. Two table-
fpoonfuls of the Tindlure undiluted Ihould be adminillered, if poflible, during
the height of the paroxyfm, which will generally give immediate eafe.
Dr. Smyth of Ireland has, we are told, difcovered that the angina pe^oris may
be certainly cured by iflues, of which Dr. Macbride gives the following inllance :
“ A. B. a tall well-made man ;
rather large than otherwife : of healthy parents,
except that there had been a little gout in the family ; temperate ; being very atten-
tive to the bulinefs of his trade, (that of a watch-maker,) led a life uncommonly fe-
dentary; had, from his boyhood upwards, been remarkably fubje6t to alarming
inflammations of his throat, which feized him at leall once in the courfe of the yCar
;
in all other refpe^ls well. In 1767, (then forty-eight years of age,) he was taken,
without any evident caufe, with a fudden and very difpiriting throbbing under the
llernum. It foon afterwards inereafed,. and returned upon him every third or fourth
week, accompanied with great anxiety, very laborious breathing, choaking, a fen-
fation of fulnefs and dillenlion in the head, bloated and flulhed countenance, turgid
and watery eyes, and a very irregular and unequal pulfe. The paroxyfm. invaded him
almoll conllantly while he was fitting after dinner ;
now and then he was feized with
it in the morning, when walking a little faller than ufual ;
and was then obliged toi
rell on any objeft at hand. Once or twice it came on in bed ;
but did not oblige
No. 15. 3 N hinx
230 A KEY TO PHYSIC
him to fit up, as it was then attended with no great difficulty in breathing. In the af-
ternoon-fits, his greatefteafe was frOm the fupine pofture; ih which he ufed to conti-
nue motionlefs for fome hours^ until, quite fpent and worn out with anguilli, he
dropt into a {lumber. In the intervals between thefe attacks, which at length grew
fo frequent as to return every fourth or fifth day, he was, to appearance, in perfect
health. Thus matters continued for more than two years; and various atitifpafmodic
were ineffeftually tried for his relief. In 1769, there fupervened a very fharp con-
ftridlory pain at the upper part of the fternum, ftretchiiig equally on each fide, attend-
ed with the former fymptoms of anxiety, dyfpnoea, choaking, &c. and with an ex-
cruciating cramp, as he called it, that could be covered with a crown-piece, in each
of his arms, between the elbow and the wTift, exa^ly at the infertion ofthe pronator
teres; the reft of the limb was quite free. The fits were fometimes brought on, and
always exafperated, by any agitation of mind or body. He once attempted to ride on,
horfeback during the parCxy fm : but the experiment was near proving fatal to him.
The difference of feafon or weather made no irnpreffion upon him. Still, in the inter-
vals, his health was perfectly good ;
except that his eyes, which before his illnefs
were remarkably ftrong and clear, were now grown extremely tender ;
and that his
fight was much impaired. He had no flatulency, of ftomach, and his bowels were
regular. In this fituation, Feb. 22, 1770, he applied to me for affiftance. I had feen,
I believe, eight or ten of thefe frightful cafes before. Two of the patients dropped
dead fuddenly. They were men between forty and fifty years of age, and of a
make fomewhat flefhy. The fate of the others I was not informed of; or, at leaft, can-
not now recolle6l. Having found the total inefficacy of blifters and the whole clafs
of nervous medicines in the treatment of this anomalous fpafm, I thought it right
to attempt correcting or draining off the irritating fluid in the cafe now before
us. To this purpofe, I ordered a mixture of lime-water with a little of the com-
pound juniper-water, and an alterative proportion of Huxham’s antimonial
wine : I put the patient on a plain, light, perfpirable, diet ;
and reftrained him
from all vifcid, flatulent, and acrimonious, articles. By purfuing this courfe, he
was foon apparently mended ;
but, after he had perfifted regularly in it for at leaft
two months, he kept for fome time at a ftand. I then ordered a large iffue to 'be
opened on each of his thighs. Only one was made. However, as foon as it be-
gan to difcharge, he amended. The frequency and feverity of the fits abated
confiderably ;
and he continued improving gradually, until, at the end of eigh-
teen months, he was reftored to perfeCt health ; which he has enjoyed, without the
leaft interruption, till now, except when he has been tempted (perhaps once in a
twelvemonth) to tranfgrefs rules, by making a large meal on falted meat, or indul-
ging himfelf in ale or rum-punch, each of which never failed to diforder him from
7 the
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 231
the beginning ofhis illnefs : but on even thefe occafions, he has felt no more than the
flighteft motion of his former fufferings; infomuch that he would defpifethe attack,
if it did not appear to be of the fame ftock with his old complain t. No other caufe
has had the leaft ill effect on him. Though rum was conftantly hurtful, yet
punch, made with a maceration of black currants in our vulgar corn-fpirit, is a
liquor that agrees remarkably well with him. He never took any medicine after
the iffue began to difcharge; and I have dire6led that it fhall be kept open as long
as he lives. The inflammations of his throat have difappeared for five years
pall; .; he has recovered the ftrength and cleamefs of his fight ;
and his health feems
DOW to be entirely re-ellablilhed.”
Dr. Macbride, in a letter to Dr. Duncan, pubiilhed in the Edinburgh Medical
Commentaries, gives the following additional obfervations on this difeafe :
Within thefe few weeks I have, at the defire of Dr. Smyth, vifited, three or four
times, a very ingenious man who keeps an academy in this city, of about thirty-
four years of age, who applied to the do6tor for his advice in Januai’y lall, I fiiall
give you his fymptoms as I had them from his own mouth, which appear to me to
mark his cafe to be an angina pe^ris, and as deplorable as any that I have read
of. It was ftrongly diftinguilhed by the exquifite confl:ri61:ory pain of the fternum,
extending to each of his arms as far as the infertion of the deltoid mufcle, extreme
anxiety, laborious breathing, ftrangling, and violent palpitation of the heart, with a
moll irregular pulfe. The paroxyfms were fo frequent, that he fcarcely ever efcaped
a day, for fix or feven years, without one. They were ufually excited by any agi-
tation of mind or body, though flight. He had clear intervals of health between
the fits. The diftemper feems hereditary in him, as he fays his father was afiedled
in the fame manner feme years previous to his death. He has allrong gouty taint,
which never fhowed itfelf in bis limbs ;
and he has led a life of uncommon fedenta-
rinefs,from intenfe application to mathematical lludies, attention ofmind,and paflion,
even from his boyilli years. Thefe circumftances may, perhaps, account for his
having been taken with this difeafe at fo early an age as feventeen. A large ilfue was
immediately opened on each of his thighs. In a month afterwards he began to mend,
and has gone on improving gradually. He can now run up flairs brilkly, as I faw
him do no later than yeflerday, without hurt; can bear agitation of mind; and has
no complaint, excepting a flight opprefilon of the breafl, under the fternum, which
he feels fometimes in a morning, immediately after dreifing himfelf, and which he
thinks is brought on by the motion ufed in putting on his clothes ; though, for a
complete week preceding the day on which I faw him laft, he told me that he had
been entirely free from all uneafinefs, and was exulting that he had not had fuch
an interval of eafe for thefe laft feven years. Dr. Smyth alfo fliowed me, in his
adverfaria, or note-book, the cafe of a gentleman who had been under his care
232 A KEY TO PHYSIC
in 1760, which he had forgotten when my book went to the prefs, but which he was
reminded of the other day by a vifit from his patient. It was a genuine angina pedloris,
brought on by a fedentary life, and great vexation of mind, clearly marked by the
exquifjte pain under the llernum, that extended acutely to the upper extremities,
particularly along the left arm, together wdth the other fymptoms of dyfpncea, anxie-
ty, palpitation of the heart, &c. recited in the cafe above. The diforder went off in
1762, by large fpontaneous difcharges from the piles, but returned upon him fe-
verely in 1765. Iffues in his thighs were then recommended to him, but not made.
But, whether it was by the perfualion of fome friend, or of his own accord, he went
into a courfe of James’s powder, in fmall alterative dofes, combined with a little
caflor and afafoetida. This he perfifted in for about fix w'eeks ;
in the mean while,
he had large acrimonious gleetings from the fcrotum, and a plentiful difcharge
of ichor from the anus. From this time he began to find his complaints grow lefs
and lefs diftrefiing, and he has now been totally free from them for fix years paft.”
Of this fiiocking diforder died that eminent furgeon, Mr. John Hunter. See
Encyclopasdia Londinenfis, vol. x. p. 482.
STRAITNESS of the (ESOPHAGUS.
This diftemper has been treated of only by Dr. Munckley, who reckons it one of
the moft deplorable difeafes of the human body. Its beginning is in general fo flight
as to be fcarcely worth notice, the patients perceiving only a fmall impediment to the
fwallowing of folid food : they ufually continue in this ftate for many months ;
du-
ring which, all liquid foods, and even folids themfelves when cut fmall and fwal-
lowed leifurely, are got down without much difficulty; by degrees the evil increafes,
and the paflage through the cefophagus becomes fo narrow, that not the fmalleft
folid whatever can pafs through it ;
but, after having been detained for fome time
at the part where the obftacle is formed, is returned again with a hollow noife of a
very peculiar kind, and with the appearance of convulfion. The feat of this malady
is fometimes near the top of the cefophagus, and at other times farther down, nearer
the fuperior orifice of the ftomach. In this laftcafe, the part of the alimentary tube
which is above the obftruftion is frequently fo dilated by the food which is detained
in it as to be capable of containing a large quantity ;
and the kind of vomiting, by
which it is again returned through the mouth, comes on fooner or later after the at-
tempt to fwallow, in proportion to the nearnefs or remotenefs of the part affedted.
In the laft ftage of this difeafe, not even liquids themfelves can be fwallowed fo as to
pafs into the ftomach, and the patient dies literally ftarved to death. On the diflec-
tion of fuch as have died in this manner, the cefophagus is found to be confiderably
thickened ;
and in fome fo contradled within at the difeafed part, as fcarcely to
admit the paffing of a common probe; in others, to adhere together in fuch a
manner
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 233
manner as entirely to clofe up the paflkge, and not to be feparated without great diffi-
culty. He comes next to Ihow what he has found to be the moft efficacious method
of treating this difeafe, which, though not uncomnaon, yet in general has been con-
fiderpd as incurable. He claims not the merit of having discovered the method of
cure, but hopes that fome fervice may arife from publiflting what his experience has
confirmed to him ;
having "firfi: received the bint from another eminent phyilcian.
The only medicine, then, from the ufe of which he has ever fpund any fervice, is mer-
cury; and in cafes which are recent, and where the fymptoms have not rifen to any
great height, fmall dofes of mercury given every night, and prevented, by purga-
tive medicines, from afte^ling the mouth, have accomplithed the cure. But where
the complaint has been of long (landing, and the fymptom has come on ofithe food’s
being returned through the mouth, a more powerful method of treatment becomes
neceffary. In this cafe he has never found any thing of the lead avail in removing
the fymptoms hut mercury, ufed in fueh a manner a? to raife a gentle but conftant
fpitting, and this method he has purfued with the happipfl fuccefs. If this
method be commenced before the complaint has gained too much ground upon
the conftitution, the cafe is not to be defpaired of ;
and, of thofe who have eonae un-
der his care >n this (late, by much the greater part have received confiderable benefit
from it, and pmny ha,Y0 been entirely cured. The complaint itfelf, be obfervesj is
not very uncomnaon ; hut there is no indanpe, to his knowledge, recorded, of fucr
cefs from any other manner of treating it than that he has recommended.
OBSERVATIONS on the MEANS of PRESERVING HEALTH.
I. Rules for the Management of Valetudinarians.
That part of the medical fyftem which lays down rules for the prefervation of health
and prevention of difeafes, termed Hygeine, is not to be flriftly underftood as if it
refpe6led only thofe people who enjoy perfe6l health, and who are under no appre-
henfions of difeafe, for fuch feldom either defire or attend to medical advice ;
but
(hould rather be confidered as relating to valetudinarians, or to fuch as, though not '
aifilually fick, may yet have fufficient reafon to fear that they will foon become fo :
hence it is that the rules muft be applied to corre6l morbific difpofitions, and to ob-
viate the various things that are kuown to be the remote or poffible caufes of dif-
eafes. From the way in which the feveral temperaments are ufually mentioned by
fyllematie writer-s; it (hould feem as if they meant that every particular conftitution
muft be referred to one or other of the four; but this is far from being reducible to
practice, Eneel^ much the greater number of people have conliitutions fo indif-
No. 15. 3 0 finely
234 A KEY TO PHYSIC
tindly marked, that it is hard to fay to which of the temperaments they belong.
When we adlually meet with particular perfons who have evidently either, 1. Too
much ftrength and rigidity of fibre, and too much fenfibility; 2. Too little ftrength,'
and yet loo much fenfibility ;
3. Too much ftrength, and but little fenfibility ; or,
4. But little fenfibility joined to weaknefs ;—we fliould look on fuch perfons as
more or lefs in the valetudinary ftate, who require that thefe morbific difpofitions
be particularly watched, left they fall into thofe difeafes which are allied to the
different temperaments.
People of the firft-mentioned temperament being liable to fuffer from continued
fevers, efpecially of the inflammatory fpecies, their fcheme of preferving health
fhould confift in temperate living, with refpedl both to diet and exercife; they
ftiould ftudioufly avoid immoderate drinking, and be remarkably cautious left any
of the natural difcharges be checked. People of this habit bear evacuations well,
efpecially bleeding : they ought not, however, to lofe blood but when they really
require to have the quantity leffened ;
becaufe too much of this evacuation would
be apt to reduce the conftitution to the fecond-mentioned temperament, wherein
ftrength is deficient, but fenfibility redundant.
Perfons of the fecond temperament aro remarkably prone to fuffer from painful
and fpafmodic difeafes, and are eafily ruffled; and thofe of the fofter fex who have
this delicacy of habit are very much difpofed to hyfterical complaints. The fcheme
here fhould be, to ftrengthen the folids by moderate exercife, cold bathing, the Pe-
ruvian bark, and chalybeate waters ;
particular attention fhould conftantly be had
to the ftate of the digeftive organs, to prevent them from being overloaded with
any fpecies of faburra which might engender flatus, or kritate the fenfible mem-
branes of the ftomach and inteftines, from whence the diforder wouW foon be com-
municated to the whole nervous fyftem. Perfons of this conftitution fhould never
take any of the draftic purges, nor ftrong emetics; neither fhould they lofe blood
but in cafes of urgent neceflity. But a principal fhare of management, in thefe ex-
tremely-irritable conftitutions, confifts in avoiding all fudden changes of every fort,
efpecially thofe with refpe6l to diet and clothing, and in keeping the mind as much
as poflible in a ftate of tranquillity. Hence the great advantages which people of
this frame derive from the ufe of medicinal waters drunk on the fpot, becaufe of
that freedom from care and ferious bufinefs of every kind which generally obtains
in all the places laid out for the reception of valetudinarians.
The third-mentioned temperament, where there is an excefs of ftrength and but
little fenfibility, does not feem remarkably prone to any diftreffing or dangerous
fpecies of difeafe ;
and therefore it can hardly be fuppofed that perfons fo circum-
ftanced will either of themfelves think of any particular fcheme of management,, or
have
235
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES.
have recourfe to the faculty for their inlIru6lions : fuch conftitutious, however, we
may obferve, bear all kinds of evacuations well, and fometimes require them to
prevent an over-fulnefs, which might end in an opprelTion of the brain or fo ne
other organ of importance.
But the fourth temperament, where we have weaknefs joined to want of fenfibi-
lity, is exceedingly apt to fall into tedious and dangerous difeafe, arifing from a
defe6l of abforbent power in the proper fets of veflels, and from remiffnefs of the
circulation in general; whence corpulency, dropfy, jaundice, and different degrees
of fcorbutic affe6tion. In order to prevent thefe, or any other fpecies of accumula-
tion and depravation of the animal fluids, the people of this conftitution fhould ufe
a generous courfe of diet with brifk exercife, and be careful that none of the fecre-
tions be interrupted, nor any of the natural difcharges fuppreffed. Thefe conftitu-
tions bear purging well, and often require it ; as alfo the ufe of emetics, which are
frequently found necelfary to fupply the place of exercife, by agitating the abdo-
minal vifcera ;
and are of fervice to prevent the ftagnation of bile, or the accumul^->
tion of mucous humours, which hinder digeftion, and clog the firft paflages. The
free ufe of muftard, horfe-radifh, and the like fort of ftimulating dietetics, is fer-
viceable in thefe torpid habits.
When the general mafs of fluids is accumulated beyond what is conducive to the
perfection of health, there arifes what the writers term a plethora, which may prove
the fource of different difeafes; and therefore, when this over-fulnefs begins to pro-
duce languor and opprefiion, care fhould be taken in time to reduce the body to a
proper ftandard, by abridging the food and incfeafing the natural difcharges, ufing
more exercife, and indulging lefs in deep. But in oppolite circumftances, where the
fluids have been exhaufted, we are to attempt the prevention of further wafte by
the ufe of ftrengthening flomachics, a nourifhing diet, and indulgence from fa-
tigue of body or mind. Vitiated fluids are to be confidered as affeCled either
with the different kinds of general acrimony, or as betraying figns of fome of the
fpecies of morbific matter which give rife to particular difeafes, fuch as gout,
rheumatifm, calculus, fcurvy, &c.
During the flate of infancy, we may fometimes obferve a remarkable acidity,
which not only fhows itfelf in the firft paflages, but alfo feems to contaminate the
general mafs of fluids. As it takes its rife, however, from weak bowels, our views,
when we mean to prevent the ill confequences, muft be chiefly direCled to ftrength-
en the digeftive organs, as on their foundnefs the preparation of good chyle depends;
and hence fmall dofes of rhubarb and chalybeates (either the natural chalybeate wa-
ters mixed with milk, or the flores raartiales in dofes of a few grains, according to
the
A KEY TO PHYSIC
!?36
the age of the child) are to be adminiftered; and the diet is to be fo regulated as not
to add to this acid tendency : brifk exercife is likewife to be enjoined, with fri6lions
on the ftumach, belly, and lower extremities.
Where the fluids tend to the putrefcent ftate, which fhows itfelf by fetid breath,
fponginefs and bleeding of the gums, a bloated look and livid countenance, the
diet then fliould be chiefly of frefh vegetables and ripe fruits, with wine m modera-
tion, brifk exercife, and flrengthening bitters.
Where acrimopy fhows itfelf by itching eruptions, uncommon thirft, and flufh-
ing heats, nothing will anfwer better than fuch fulphureous waters as the Harrow-
gate and Moffat in Britain, or the Lucan Swadlimbar in Ireland ; at the fame time
ufing a courfe of diet that fliall be neither acrid nor heating.
So far with refpe6l to thofe kinds of morbific matter which do not invariably
produce a particular fpecies of difeafe : but there are others of a fpecific natur^
fome of which are generated in the body fpontaneoufly, and feem to arife from
error in diet, or other circumftances of ill management with refpedl to the animal
economy : and hence it is fometimes poffible, in fome degree if not altogether, to
prevent the ill confequences. Thus, there are inftances where returns of the gout
have been prevented by adhering ftri6lly to a milk diet.
- The rheumatifm has alfo been fometimes warded off by wearing a flannel fhirt,
or by ufing the cold bath without interruption.
Calculus may be retarded in its progrefs, and prevented from creating muchdif-
trefs, by the internal ufe of foap and lime-water, by foap-lees taken in milk or in
veal-broth, or by the ufe of aerated alkaline water, w'hich may perhaps be confi-
dered as being both more fafe and more efficacious, and at the fanae time moro
pleafant, than any of the other practices.
The fcurvy may be prevented by warm clothing and perfeverance in brifk exer-
cife, by drinking wine or cider; and eating freely of fuch vegetable fubflances as
can be had in thofe fituations where this difeafe is moft apt to fhow itfelf.
In conflitutions where there is an hereditary difpofitipn to the fcrofula, if early
precautions be taken to ftrengthen the folids by cold bathing, a nourifhing courfe
of diet, and moderate ufe of wine, the acrimony which rifes to the difeafe will pro-
bably be prevented from producing any yery bad effei6ts.
The other kinds of morbific matter, which are of a fpecific nature, are received
into the body by infe6tion or contagion.
The infe^ion of a putrid fever or dyfentery is bell prevented by immediately
taking an emetic on the firft attacks of the ficknefs or fhivering; and, if that do not
completely anfwer, let a large blifter be applied betvyeen the fhoplde**? • hy this
>
2 method
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 237
method the nurfes and other attendants on the fick in the naval hofpitals have often
been preferved. As to other infectious morbific matter, we muft refer to what
has already been faid when treating ofhydrophobia, poifons. See.
The ill effeQ;s which may arile from the different fpecies of faburra, are to be ob-
viated, in general, by the prudent adminiftration of emetics, and carefully abftain-
inw from fuch kinds of food as are known to caufe the accumulation of noxious
O
matters in the firft paffages.
Crude vegetables, milk, butter, and other oily fubftances, are to be avoided by
perfons troubled with a fournefs in the ftomach ;
brilk exercife, efpecially riding,
is to be ufed, and they are to refrain from fermented liquors ; the common drink
Ihould be pure water ;
or water with a very little of forae ardent fpirit, fuch as rum
or brandy. Seltzer and Vahls water are to be drunk medicinally ; and aromatic bit-
ters, infufions, or tin6lures, with the acid elixir of vitriol, from 10 to 20 drops,
will be found ferviceable, in order to ftrengthen the fibres of the ftomach, and pro-
mote the expulfion of its contents, thereby preventing the too hafty fermentation of
the alimentary mixture. In order to procure immediate relief, magnefia alba, or
Creta prmparata, will feldom fail ; the magnefia, as w'ell as the chalk, may be
made into lozenges, with a little fugar and mucilage ;
and in that form may be
carried about and taken occafionally by people afflicted with the acid faburra
In conftitutions where there is an exuberance or fiagnation ofbile, and a trouble-
fome bitternefs in the mouth, it is neceffary to keep the bowels always free by ta-
king occafionally fmall doles of pure aloes, oleum ricini, cream of tartar, forae of
the common purging falls, or the natural purging waters.
When there is a tendency to the empyreumatic and rancid faburra, people Ihould
carefully avoid all the various kinds of thole oily and high-feafoned things generally
termed made-dijhes, and eat plain meat, without rich fauces or much gravy ;
and
in thefe cafes the moft proper drink is pure w'ater.
II. Rules for thofe who enjoy perfe6l Health.
There can be no doubt that, in general, temperance is the true foundation of
health ;
and yet the ancient phyficians, as we may fee in the rules laid down by
Celfus, did not fcruple to recommend indulgence now and then, and allowed peo-
ple to exceed both in eating and drinking ; but it is fafer to proceed to excels in
drink than in meat; and, if the debauch Ihould create any extraordinai’y or diftreffing
degree of pain or ficknefs, and a temporary fever thould enfue, there are two ways
of fliaking it off, either to lie in bed and encourage perfpiration, or to get on horfe-
No. I6. 3 P back,
238 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
back, and by brifk exercife reftore the body to its natural ftate. The choice of thefe
two methods muft always be determined by the peculiar circumftancesof the parties
concerned, and from the experience which they may before have had, which
agrees beft with them.
If a perfon fliould commit excefs in eating, efpecially of high-feafoned things,
with rich fauces, a draught of cold water, acidulated with vitriolic acid, will take
off the fenfe of weight at the ftomach, and affift digeftion, by moderating and keep-
ing within bounds the alimentary fementation, and thus preventing the generation
of too much flatus. The luxury of ices may be here of real ferviceatthe tables of
the great, as producing fimilar effects with the cold water acidulated. Perfons in
thefe circumftances ought not to lay themfelves down to fleep, but fliould keep up
and exercife until they are fenfible that the ftomach is unloaded, and that they no
longer feel any oppreffive weight about the prmcordia.
If a man be obliged to faft, he ought, if poffible, during that time, to avoid la-
borious work : after fuffering fevere hunger, people ought not at once to gorge and
fill themfelves ;
nor is it proper, after being over-filled, to enjoin an abfolute fail
:
neither is it fafe to reft totally immediately after exceffive labour, nor fuddenly fail
hard to w'ork after having been long without motion ; in a word, all changesJhould
be made by gentle degrees ; for, though the conftitution of the human body be fuch
that it can bear many alterations and irregularities without much danger, yet, when
the tranfitions are extremely fudden, they cannot fail of producing fome kind or
degree of diforder.
It is alfo the advice of Celfus to vary the fcenes of life, and not confine ourfelves
to any fettled rules : but as ina6tion renders the body weak and liftlefs, and exercife
gives vigour and ftrength, people fliould never long omit riding, walking, or go-
ing abrbad in a carriage ;
fencing, playing at tennis, dancing, or other fimilar en-
gagements, which afford both exercife and amufement, as each fliall be found mofl
agreeable or convenient, are to be ufed in their turns, according to the circumftan-
ces and tendency to any particular fpecies of difeafe. But, when the w eaknefs of old
age fhall have rendered the body incapable of all thefe, then dry friHions with the
flefli-brufh will be extremely recpifite to preferve health, by accelerating the flow
ofhumours through the fmalleft orders of veffels, and preventing the fluids from
ftagnating too long in the cellular interftices of the flefhy parts.
Sleep is the great reftorer of ftrength ;
for, during this time, the nutritious par-
ticles appear to be chiefly applied to repair the wafte, and replace thofe that have
been abraded and wafhed off by the labour and exercife of the day. But too much
indulgence in fleep has many inconveniences, both with refpecfc to body and mind,
as it blunts the fenfes, and encourages the fluids to ftagnate in the cellular mem-
brane;
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 239
brane ;
whence corpulency, and its necessary confequences, languor and weak-
nefs. The proper time for lleep is the night feafon, when darknefs and filence
naturally bring it on : therefore day-fleep, in general, is not fo refrelhing ;
and to
fome people is really diftrefsful, as creating an unufual giddinefs and languor,
efpecially in perfons addifted to literary purfuits. Cuftom, however, frequently
renders deep in the day neceffary ;
and in thofe conftitutions where it is found
to give real refrelhment it ought to be indulged.
With regard to the general regimen of diet, it has always been held as a rule^
that the fofter and milder kinds of aliment are molt: proper for children and
younger fubjects ;
that grown perfons fhould eat w'hat is more fubftantial ;
and
old people leffen their quantity of folid food, and iricreafe that of their drink.
Of FIXED AIR as a Medicine.
THE antifeptic qualities of fixed air, or as it is now more generally called of the
aerial or carbonic acid gas, have introduced it as a medicine in cafes of putrid
diforders, and various other complaints. —Dr. Percivalobferves, that, though fatal
if infpired in a very large quantity, it may in fmaller quantities be breathed without
danger or uneafinefs. And it is a confirmation of this conclufion, that at Bath,
where the waters copioufly exhale this mineral fpirit, the bathers infpire it with im-
punity. At Buxton alfo, where the bath is in a clofe vault, the eflfefils of fuch ef-
fluvia, if noxious, muft certainly be perceived.
Encouraged by thefe and fome other confiderations, he adminiftered fixed air
in more than 30 cafes of thephthifispulmonalis, by directing his patients to infpire
the (teams of an effervefcing mixture of chalk and vinegar through the fpout of a
coffee-pot. The hectic fever has in feveral inftances been confiderably abated, and
the matter expefitorated has become lets offenfive and better digefted. He was not
however, fo fortunate in any one cafe as to effe6t a cure ;
although the ufe of
this air was accompanied with proper internal medicines. But Dr. With-
ering was more fuccefsful. One phthifical patient under bis care, by fuch a
courfe, entirely recovered ;
another was rendered much better; and a third, whofe
cafe was truly deplorable, feemed to be kept alive by it more than two montlis. It
may be proper to obferve, that fixed air can only be employed with any profpefit of
fuccefs in the latter ftages of the phthifis pulmonalis, when a purulent expefiloration:
takes place. After the rupture and difcharge of vomica alfo, fuch a remedy pro-
mifes to be a powerful palliative. Antifeptic fumigations and vapours have been,
long employed, and much extolled, in cafes of this kind. The following experi-
ment
1
£40 A KF.Y TO PHYSIC,
meat was made to determine whether their efficacy in any degree depends on tlie
reparation of fixed air from their fubftance.
One end of the bent tube was fixed in a phial full of lime-water; the other
end in a bottle of the tinSure of myrrh. The junctures were carefully luted ;
and the phial containing the tincture of myrrh was placed in water, heated al-
moft to the boiling point, by the lamp of a tea-kettle. A number of air-bubbles
were feparated, but probably not of the mephitic kind ;
for no precipitation en-
fued in the lime-water. This experiment was repeated with the tinSl. Tolutana
Ph. Ed. and with fp. ’vinof. camph. and the refult was entirely the fame. The
medicinal action therefore of the vapours raifed from fuch tinfitures cannot be
afcribed to the extrication of fixed air, of which it is probable bodies are de-
prived by chemical folution as well as by mixture.
If mephitic air be thus capable of correfiling purulent matter in the lungs, we
may reafonably infer it will be equally uleful when applied externally to foul ulcers ;
and experience confirms the conclufion. Even the fanies of a cancer, when the
carrot-poultice failed, has been fweetened by it, the pain mitigated, and a better
digeftion produced. But, though the progrefs of the cancer feems to be checked
by the fixed air, it is to be feared a cure will not be effected. A palliative remedy,
however, in a difeafe fo defperate and loathfome, may be confidered as a very
valuable acquifition. Perhaps nitrous air might be ftill more efficacious. This fpe-
cies of factitious air is obtained from all the metals, except zinc, by means of the
nitrous acid ;
as a fweete nor and antifeptic, it far furpalles fixed air.
In the ulcerous fore throat, much advantage has been experienced from the
vapours of effervefcing mixtures drawn into the fauces. But this remedy fhould
not fuperfede the life of other antifeptic applications.
In malignant fevers, wines aboundingwith fixed air may be adminifteredto check
the feptic ferment, and fweeten the putrid colluvies in the primas vim. If the laxa-
tive quality of fuch liquors be thought an objefition to the ufe of them, wines of a
greater age may be given, impregnated with aerial acid. —The patient’s common
drink might alfo be medicated in the fame way, A putrid diarrhoea frequently oc-
curs in the latter ftage of fuch diforders, and it is a moft alarming and dangerous
fymptom. If the difcharge be flopped by aftringents, a putrid fomes is retained in
the body, which aggravates the delirium, and increafes the fever. On the contrary,
if it be fuffered to take its courfe, the ftrength of the patient muft foon be exhauftedj
and death unavoidably enfue. The injection of mephitic air into the inteftines, un-
der thefe circumftances, bids fair to be highly ferviceable. And in fome cafes of
this kind, the gas emitted from a mixture of chalk and oil of vitriol, conveyed into
the body by the machine employed for tobacco- clyfters, quickly reftrained he
3 diarrhoea,
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 341
corre6led the heat and fetor of the ftools, and in a fliort time removed
'ev’^ty fymptom of danger.
As a folvent of the calculus, its virtues have been already mentioned ;
but the
experiments made on that fubjeO; do not determine thematter with fufiicient accu-
racy.
Of medical ELECTRICITY.
THE application of this fubtile fluid to medicinal purpofes was thought of foon
after the difcovery of the eleftric (hock ;
and, after various turns of reputation, its
medical virtues feem now to be pretty well eftabliflied. Mr. Cavallo, who has
publiftied the lateft and the befi; treatife on Medical Ele6lricity, entirely difapproves
of giving violent Ihocks, and finds it moft efficacious to expofe the patient to the
eleSlrical aura, a gentle air, difcharged from an iron or wooden point ; or, if ihocks
are given, they ihould be very flight, and not exceed twelve or fourteen at a time.
In this way he recommends it as effefitual in a great number of diforders. The
patient may be ele6lrified from three to ten minutes : but, if fparks are drawn, they
Ihould not exceed the number of ihocks above mentioned.
Rheumatic diforders, even of long ftanding, are relieved, and fometimes quite
cured, by only drawing the elefilric fluid with a w^ooden point from the part, or by
drawing fparks through flannel. The operation ihould be continued for about four
or five minutes, repeating it once or twice every day.
The gout, exti’aordinary as it may appear, has certainly been cured by means of
ele6tricity, in various inftances. The pain has been generally mitigated, and fome-
times the difeafe has been removed fo w’ell as not to return again. In thofe cafes,
the elefitric fluid has been thrown by means of a wooden point, although fometimes,
when the pain was too great, a metal point only has been ufed.
Deafnefs, except when it is occafioned by obliteration or other improper configu-
ration of the parts, is either entirely or partly cured by drawing the fparks from the
ear with the glafs-tubedire6lor, or by drawing the fluid with a wooden point. Some-
times it is not improper to fend exceedingly-fraall Ihocks (for inftance, of one-thir-
teenth of an inch) from one ear to the other. —It has been conftantly obferved, that,
whenever the ear is ele6trified, the difcharge of the wax is confiderably promoted.
The tooth-ach, occafioned by dbld, rheurnatifm, or inflammation, is generally
relieved by drawfing the elefilric fluid with a point, immediately from the part, and
alfo externally from the face. But, when the body of the tooth is affe6ted, electri-
zation is of no ufe ;
for it feldom or never relieves the diforder, e,nd fometimes in-
- creafes the pain to a prodigious degree.
No. 16, 3 Q Inflammations
InfiammatioriS of every fort are generally relieved by a very gentle ele6lnzaty'
In inflammations of the eyes, the throwing of the electric fluid by means of a wood-
en point is often attended with great benefit ; the pain being quickly abated, and
the inflammation being generally diffipatedin a few days. In thefe cafes, the eye
of the patient muft be kept open ;
and care fhoiild be taken not to bring the wooden
point very near it, for fear of caufingany fpark. Sometimes it is fufficient to throw
the fluid with a metal point ;
for in thefe cafes, too great irritation fliould be always
avoided. It is not neceflary to continue this operation for three or four minutes
w ithout intermiffion ;
but, after throwing the fluid for about half a minute, dfhort
time may be allowed to the patient to reft and to wipe his tears, which generally flow
very copioufly : then the operation may be continued again for another half-minute,
and fo on for four or five times every day. The gutta ferena has been fometimes
cured by eleClrization ;
but at the fame time it muft be confefTed, it has proved in-
effedtual in many fuch cafes, in which it was adminiftered for along time and with
all poffible attention. However, it has never been known that any body was made
worfe by it. The beft method of adminiftering electricity in fuch cafes, isfirft ta
draw the eleCtric fluid with a wooden point for a fhort time, and then to fend about
half a dozen of .fhocks of one-twentieth of an inch from the back and lower part of
the head to the forehead, very little above the eye. A remarkable difeafe of the eye
was fome time ago perfectly cured by electrization ;
it was an opacity of the vitreous
humour of the eyes. All the cafes of fiftula lacrymalis, which Mr. Cavallo hath
known to have been electrified by perfons of ability for a fufficient time, have been
entirely cured. The method generally praCtifed has been that of drawing the fluid
with a wooden point, and to take very fmall fparks from the part. The operation
may be continued for about three or four minutes every day. It is remarkable, that
inthofe cafes, after curing the fiftula lacrymalis, no other difeafe was occafioned by
it, as blindnefs, inflammations, &c. by fuppreffmg that difcharge.
Palfies are feldom perfectly cured by means of eleCtricity, efpecially when they
are of long handing ;
but they are generally relieved to a certain degree. The me-
thod of electrifying in thofe cafes is to draw the fluid with the wooden point, and
to bring fparks through flannel, or through the ufual coverings of the part if they
are not too thick. The operation may be continued for about five minutes per day.
Uleers, or open fores of every kind, even of a long handing, are generally difpo-
fed to heal by electrization. The general effeCts are a diminution of the inflamma-
tion, and at firft a promotion o-f the difcharge of properly-formed matter, w'hich
difcharge gradually leflens, according as the limits of the fore contraCt, till it be
quite cured. In thefe cafes the gentleft electrization muft be ufed, in order to avoid
too great an irritation, which is generally hurtful. To draw or throw the fluid witli
3 a wooden
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 243
a wooden or even with a metal point, for three or four minutes per day, is fully
fufficient.
Cutaneous eruptions have been fuccefsfully treated with electrization : but in
thefe cafes it muft be obferved, that if the wooden point be kept too near the fkin,.
fo as to caufe any confiderable irritation, the eruption will be caufed to fpread more
;
but if the point be kept at about fix inches diftance, or farther, if the eleO:rical
machine be very powerful, the eruptions will be gradually diminillied, till they are
quite cured. In this kind of difeafe, the immediate and general effe6l Of the wooden
point is to occalion a warmth about the electrified part, which is always a fign that
the electrization is rightly adminiftered.
The application ofeleCtricity has perfectly cured various cafes of St. Vitus’s dance,
or of that difeafe which is commonly called fo ;
for it is the opinion of fome very
learned phyficians, that the real difeafe called St. Vitus’s dance, which formerly was
more frequent than it is at prefent, is different from that which now^ goes under that
name. In this difeafe, ftiocks of about one-tenth of an inch may be fent through the
body in various directions, and allb fparks may be taken. But, if this treatment
prove very difagreeable to the patient, then the Ihocks muft be lelfened, and even
omitted ;
inftead of which, fome other more gentle applications muft be fubftituted.
Scrophulous tumours, when they are juft beginning, are generally cured by draw-
ing the deClric fluid with a w'ooden or metal point from the part. This is one
Of thofe kinds of difeafes in which tl^e aCb.on of eleClricity requires particularly
the aid of other medicines in order to effeCt a cure more eafily ;
for fcrophulous
affections commonly accompany a great laxity of the habit, and a general cachexy,
which muft be obviated by proper remedies.
In cancers, the pains only are commonly alleviated by drawing the eleCtric fluid
with a wooden or metal point. Mr. Cavallo, however, mentions one cafe in whi^^h
a moft confirmed cancer of very long ftanding, on the breaft of a woman, had been
much reduced in fize. It is remarkable, that this patient was fo far relieved by
drawing the fluid with a metal point from the part, that the excruciating pains fhe
hadfuffered for many years did almoft entirely difappear; but, when the electric
fluid was drawn by means of a wooden point, the pains rather increafed.
Abfceffes, when they are in their beginning, and in general whenever there is any
tendency to form matter, are difperfed by electrization. Lately, in a cafe in w'hich
matter was formed upon the hip, called the lumbar abfcefs, the difeafe was perfectly
cured by means of eleClricity. The fciatica has alfo been often cured by it. In all
fuch cafes, the eleCiric fluid muft be fent through the part by means of two directors
applied to oppofite parts, and in immediate contaCt either with the fkin, or with
tlie coverings when thefe are very thin. It is very remarkable, that the mere
paffage
^244 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
pafiage of electric fluid In this manner is generally felt by the patients afflI6led with
thofe diforders nearly as much as a fraall iliock is felt by a perfon in good health.
Sometimes a few fliocks have been alfo given, but it feems more proper tQ omit
them ;
becaufe fometimes, inftead of difperfing, they rather accelerate the forma-
tion of matter.
In cafes of pulmonary inflammations, w.hen they are in the beginning, eledtriza-
tion has been fometimes beneficial ;
but in confirmed difeafes of the lungs it does
not feem to have ever afibrded any unqueftionable benefit ;
however, it feems that
in fuch cafes the power of electricity has been but feldom tried.
Nervous head-achs, even ofa longftanding, are generally cured by eledlrization.
For this difeafe, the electric fluid muft be tlirown with a w'ooden and fometimes
even with a metal point, all round the head fucceffively. Sometimes exceedingly-
fmall fliocks have been adminiftered ;
but thefe can feldom be ufed, becaufe the
nerves of perfons fubject to this difeafe are fo very irritable, that the fhocks, the
fparks, and fometimes even the throwing the eledtric fluid with a wooden point kept
very near the head, throw them into convulfions.
The application of eledlncity has often been found beneficial in the dropfy when,
juft beginning, or rather in the tendency to a dropfy; but it has never been of any
ufe in advanced dropfies. In fuch cafes, the eledlric fluid is fent through the part,
in various directions, by means of two directors, and fparks are alfo drawn acrofs
the flannel or the clothes; keeping the metal rod in contadt with them, and fliifting
it continually from place to place. This operation fliould be continued at leaft ten
minutes, and fliould be repeated once or twice a-day. —Perhaps in thofe cafes, a
Ample eledtrization (viz. to infulate the patient, and to connedt him with the prime
condudtor whilft the machine is in adtion,) continued for a confiderable time, as
an hour or tw'O, would be more beneficial.
Swellings in general, which do not contain any matter, are frequently cured by
drawing the eledtric fluid with a wooden point. The operation fliould be continued
for three or four minutes every day. —It is very remarkable, that, in fome cafes of
white fw'ellings quite cured by means of eledtricity, the bones and cartilages were
in fome meafure disfigured.
Agues have not unfrequentlybeen cured by eledtricity, fothat fometimes one elec-
trization or two have been futficient. The moft effedtual and fure method has been
that of drawing I’parks through flannel, or the clothes, for about ten minutes or a
quarter of an hour. The patients may be eledtrified either at the time of the fit, or
a fliort while before the time in wdiich it is expedted.
The fuppreffion of the menfes, which is a difeafe of the female fex that often oc-
eaiions the moft difagreeable and alarming fymptoms, is often fucccfsfully and fpee-
'
^
dily
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES.
dlly cured by means of eleClricity, even when the difeafe is of long ftandlrig, and
after the moft powerful medicines ufed for it have proved ineffectual. The cafes
of this fort in which eledlrization has proved ufeleis are fo few, and the fuccefsfui
.ones fo numerous, that the application of eledtricity for this difeafe may be juftly
confidered as an efficacious and certain remedy. Great attention and knowledge is
required, in order to diffinguiffi the arreftof the menfes from a ftate of pregnancy.
In the former, the application of elearicity, as we obferved above, is very benefi-
cial; whereas, in the latter, it may be attended with very difagreeable effeas : it is
therefore a matter ofgreat importance to afcertain the real caufe of the difeafe, be-
fore the elearicity be applied in thofe cafes. Pregnant women may be elearified
for other difeafes, but alwmys ufing very gentle means, and direaing the elearic
fluid through other parts of the body diftant from thofe fubfervient to generation.
In the real fuppreffion of the menfes, fmall fiiocks, i. e. of about one twentieth of
an inch, may be fent through the pelvis ; fparks may be taken through the clothes
-from the parts adjacent to the feat of the difeafe,; and alfo the elearic fluid may be
tranfraitted by applying the metallic or wooden extremities of two direaors to the
hips, in contaa with the clothes ;
part of which may be removed in cafe they be too
thick. Thefe various applications of elearicity fliould be regulated according to
the conftitution of the patient. The number offliocks may be about tw’elve or four-
teen. The other applications may be continued for two or three minutes ;
repeating
the operation every day. But either ftrong fliocks, or a ftronger application of elec-
tricity than the patient can conveniently bear, fliould be avoided ;
for by thofe
means fometiraes more than a fufficient difcharge is occafioned, which is not eafily
cured. In cafes of uterine haemorrhages, it is not known that the application of
electricity was ever beneficial. Perhaps a very gentle elefilrization, fo as to keep
the patient infulated and connedted with the prime conductor whilft the eledtrical
machine, is in adtion, may be of fome benefit.
In refpefit to unnatural difeharges and fluxes in general, it may be obferved,
that fome difeharges are quite unnatural or adventitious, as the fiftula lacrymaiis,
and fome fpecies of the venereal difeafe; but others are only increafed natural
difeharges, fuch as the menfes, perfpiration, &c. Now the power of eledlricity
in general has been found more beneficial for the firft than for the fecond fort of
difeharges, which are moftly increafed by it.
In the venereal difeafe, ele6trization has been generally forbidden ;
having com-
monly increafed the pains, and other fyraptoms, rather than diminiffied them. In-
deed, confidering that any fort of ftimulushas been found hurtful to perfons affliHed
with that diforder, it is no wonder that eledtricity has produced fome bad effefits,
efpecially in the manner it was adminiftered fome time ago, viz, by giving ftrong
No. 16. SR fliocks.
246 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
lliocks. However, it has been lately obferved, that a Very gentle application of
ele6tricity, as drawing the fluid by means of a wooden or metal point, is peculiarly
beneficial in various cafes of this kind, even when the difeafe has been of lorfo’
ftanding. Having remarked above, that tumors, when juft beginning, are difper-
fcd, and that unnatural difcharges are gradually fupprefledj by a judicious
elefilrization, it is fuperfluous to defcribe particularly thofe ftates of the venereal
difeafe in which elefifricity may be applied ;
it is only neceflary to remind the
operator to avoid any confiderable ftimulus in cafes of this fort.
The application of elebtricity has been found alfo beneficial in other difeafes
befides thofe mentioned above ;
but, as the facts are not fufflciently numerous to
afford the deduction of any general rules,' we have not thought proper to take
any particular notice of them.
We m.ay laftly obferve, that, in many cafes, the help of other remedies to be
prefcribed by the medical praCUtioner wdll be required to affift the aCtion of elec-
tricity, w'hich by itfelf would perhaps be ufelefs ;
and, on the other haml, electri-
zation may be often applied to affift the aCtion of other remedies, as of fudorifica,
ftrengthening medicines, &c.
Mr. Lichtenberg with a large eleCtrophorus made fome very curious experiments;
in which, the knob of an eleCtrified phial being drawn over the furface of the electric
plate, finely-powdered rofin, afterwards fifted upon the place, alTumed the figure of
ftars and other beautiful ramifications, indicating not only an inclination to arrange
itfelf in the fame regular order with the cry ftals of falts, but to run out into branches
like thofe of vegetables. Thefe experiments have been repeated to great advantage
by the Rev. Mr. Rennet, according to whofe method the figures reprefented in the
annexed Plate were made. The apparatus ufed for making them confifted only
of a common Leyden phial, and a plate of glafs 15 inches fquare covered on one
fide witha varnifh ofgum-lac diflblved in fpirit of wine, and feveral times laid over.
Tw'o ounces of fhell-lac pow^dered and mixed with fix ounces of fpirit of wine an-
fwers very well for this purpofe. The glafs muftbe warmed, and the varnifli fpread
upon it with a camel’s-bair pencil. Care muff be taken, however, not to lay it on
too thick, otherwife the effeSt will not follow. —The other fide is covered with tin-
foil laid on with common pafte. When it is to be ufed, the glafs plate is put upon
a metallic ftand with the tin-foil fide laid undermoft; the phial is to be charged, and
the knob drawn over the varniflied fide. Thus any kind of figure may be drawn, or
letters made, as reprefented in the plate; and from every figure beautiful ramifica-
tions w ill proceed, longer or fliorter a^ccording to the ftrength of the charge, On
fonae occafions, however, the charge may be too firong, particularly where we with,
3 to
?^J.
^Jx/ijJru^/i.
- . ;
.
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 247
to reprefent letters, fo that the whole will be blended into one confufed mafs.
The round figures are formed by placing metallic rings or plates upon the elec-
trical plate, and then giving them a fpark from the electrified bottle, or fending a
fhock through them. The figures may be rendered permanent by blowing off the
loofe chalk, and clapping on a piece of black fized paper upon them ;
or, if they are
wanted of another colour, that may eafily be obtained by means of lake, vermi-
lion, rofe-pink, or any of the ordinary colours ground very fine.
Electricity feems alfo to be the caufe of cryftallization ;
which probably is only
an incipient or imperfect vegetation. Different falts alfume different figures in cryf-
tallization, and are thus moft eafily diftinguilhed from one another. Each fait is
Capable ofalfuming a very different appearance of the cryftalline kind, when only
a fingle drop of the faline folution is made ufe of, and the cryftallization viewed
through a microfeope. For our knowledge of this fpecies of cryftallization we
are indebted to Mr. Henry Baker, who was prefented with a gold medal for the
difeovery, in the year 1744., Thefe microfcopical cryftals he diftinguifties from
the large ones by the name of conjiguraiions
;
but this term feems inaccurate,^
and the diftinction may well enough be preferved by calling the large ones the
common, and the fmall ones the miCTofcopical, ci
7ftals of the fait. His method-
of making thefe obfervations he gives in the following words
“ I diffolve the fubjecl to be examined in no larger a quantity of rain or river
water than I am certain it is fufticient to faturate, Ifitis a body eafily dilfolvable,,
I make ufe of cold water; otherwife I make the water warm, hot, or even boiling,,
according as I find it necelfary. After it is perfectly diftblved, I let it reft for fome
hours, till, if overcharged, the redundant faline particle^ may be precipitated anti,
fettle to the bottom, orfhoot into cryftals ;
by which means I am moft likely to have
a folution of the fame ftrength at one time as at another ; that is, a folution fully
charged with as much as it can hold up, and no more ;
and by thefe precautions the
configurations appear alike, how often foever tried twhereas, ifthe water be lefts fatu-
rated, the proportions at different times will be fubje6t to more uncertainty; and, if
examined before fuch feparation and precipitation of the redundant falts, little more
will be feen than a confufed mafs ofcryftals. The folution being thus prepared, I
take lip a drop of it with a goofe-quili cut in faihion of a.fcoop, and place it on a.:
fiat flip of glafs of about three quarters of an . inch in width, and between three and
four inches long, fpreading it on the glafs with the quill, in either a round or an
oval figure, till it appears a quarter of an inch, or more, in diameter, and fo.flral-
low as to rife very little above the furface of the glafs. When it is fo difpofed, I hold
it as level as I can over the clear part ofa fire that is not too fierce, or over.the flame
of a candle, at a diftance proportionable to the heat it requires (which experienca
248 A KEY TO PEIYSIC,
only can dire£b), and watch it very carefully till I difcover the faline particles begin-
ning to gather and look white, or of fomeother colour, at the extremities of the edges.
Then ( having adjufted the microfcope before-hand for its reception^ armed with the
fourth glafs, which is the fitted for moft of thofe experiments) I place it under my
eye, and bring it exaftly to the focus of the magnifier ;
and, after running over the
whole drop, I fix my attention on that fide where I obferve any increafe or pufhing
forwards of cryftalline matter from the circumference towards the centre. This
motion is extremely flow at the beginning, unlefs the drop has been overheated,
but quickens as the water evaporates ;
and in many kinds, towards the conclufion,
produces configurations with a fwiftnefs inconceivable, compofed of an infinity of
parts, which are adjufted to each other with an elegance, regularity, and order,
beyond what the exaeteft pencil in the world, guided by the ruler and compafles,
can ever equal, or moft luxuriant imagination fancy. When this adtion once begins,
the eye cannot be taken off, even for a moment, without lofing fomething worth ob-
fervation : for the figures alter every inftant till the whole procefs is over ;
and, in
many forts, after all feems at an end, new forms arife, different entirely from any
that appeared before, and which probably are owdng to Ibme fraall quantity of fait
of another kind, w hich the other feparates from, and leaves to act after itfelf has
done : and, in fome fubjecls, three or four different forts are obfervable, few’ or none
of them being fimple and homogeneous. When the configurations are fully formed,
and all the water evaporated, moft kinds of them are foon deftroyed again by the
moifture or action of the air upon them ; their noints and angles lole their fliarp-
nefs, become uneven and defaced, and moulder, as it were, away. But fome
few are permanent, and-, being inclofed betw^n glaffes, may be preferved many
months, or even years, entertaining objeCts for the microfcope. It happens often-
times that a drop of faline folution can hardly be fpread on the flip of glafs, byrea-
fon of the glafs’s fmoothnefs, but breaks into little globules, as it would do if the
furface wmre greafy ; this w’as very troublefome, till I found a w’ay of preventing
it, by rubbing the broken drop with my finger over the glafs, fo as to leave the
furface fmeared with it; on which fmeared place, w'hen dry, another drop of the
folution may be fpread very eafily in what form one pleafes. It likevvife fometimes
happens, that, when a heated drop is placed properly enough for examination^
the obferver finds he can diftinguifh nothing : which is owing to faline fteams
that, rifing from the drop, cover and obfeure the objefit-glafs, and therefore muff
immediately be wiped awmy with a loft cloth or leather. In all examinations by
the microfcope of faline folutions, even through made in the day-time, I always
employ the light of a candle, and advife every obferver to do fo likewife ;
for the
configurations, being exceedingly tranfparent, are rendered much more diftinguhha-
ble
Qh.n/i/ i^c/
.
7/4^ wr//?/‘d //rw
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES, 249
ble by the brounn light' a candle affords them by the more white and tranfparent
day-light ;
and befides, either by moving the candle or turning microfcope, fuch
light may be varied or diredted juft as the objedl requires.”
In this manner were produced the beautiful cryftallizations reprefented in the
annexed Plate. They are vaftly different from fuch cryftals of the fame tabs
as are obtained by the common proceffas ;
but Mr. Baker affures us they are
no lefs conftant and invariable than they, and that he has repeated the experi-
ments a great number of times with the fame fuccefs.
Fig. 1. Ihows the microfcppical cryftals of nitre or faltpetre. Thefe Ihoot from
the edges, with very little heat, into flattilh figures of various lengths, exceedingly
tranfparent, and with ftraight and parallel fides. They are fliown in their different
degrees of progreffion at the letters a, b, c, d, e ; where a reprefents how they firfi:
begin. After numbers of thefe are formed, they will often diffolve under the eye,
and difappear entirely; but, if you wait a little, new ftioots will pulh out, and the
procefs go on afrelh. Thefe firft figures fometimes enlarge only with altering their
ftiapes, and fometimes form in fuch fort as the drop reprefents ;
but, if the heat has
been too great, they Ihoot haftily into ramifications very numerous and beautiful,
but very difficult to be drawn ;
and which Mr. Baker therefore did not attempt.
There feems all the while a violent agitation in the fluid, and moft commonly,
towards the conclufion, a few ofitaedra (compofed of eight triangular planes, or
two quadrangular pyramids, joined bafe to bafe) make their appearance.
2. Blue vitriol, the fulphat of copper of the new chemiftry, produces cryftals
round the edges, very fliort at the beginning, but increafing gradually, as repre-
fented at the figures 1, 2, 3, which denote their difference of form, and the pro-
grefs of their growth. Thefe cryffalline flioots are folid, regular, tranfparent, and
reflefit the light very beautifully from their poliihed fides and angles. As the
watery part evaporates, numbers of long flender bodies like hairs are feen here
and there, fome lying fide by fide, or crofling each other as at 4 ;
others forming
ftar-like figures with many radiations (5, 5). This fait flioots but flowly, and
therefore requires patience. At laft, the true cryttals begin to appear commonly
in the middle of the drop, and very prettily branched.
5. Dittilled verdigreafe, or green oxyd of copper, diffolved as above directed,
and immediately applied to the microfcope, ftiows abundance ofthe regular figures,
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 : but, if the folution is fuffered to ftand for a few hours, and a
drop -of it is then heated over the fire on a flip of a glafs, till it begins to concrete
about the fides, and then examined, fliarp-pointed folid figures, bifefited by a line
cut through the middle, from which they are cut away towards the edges, begin to
appear, and fliooting forwards (1, 1, 1). Thefe figures are often ftriated very
Nv>. lb. 3 S prettily
£50 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
prettily from the middle line to the edges obliquely (2, 2) ; and frequently they
arife in clufters, and footing from a centre (3, 3). Thefe figures are a long time in
growing; and, whiift they are doing fo, regular cryftals appear forming in feveral
parts of the drop, of the moft lively emerald colour, and refledling the light from
their fidps and angles, which are moft exaQly difpofed, and finely polilhed. No
cryftals are formed in the middle till the water is nearly evaporated ;
and then
they begin to form haftily, for vvhich reafon they muft be carefully attended.
Their common figure refembles too long yy crolfing each other in an-angle of
about 6‘0°, and fhooting branches every way ;
each of which again protrudes other
branches from one, and fometimes from both, its fides ;
making together an ap-
pearance like four leaves of fern conjoined by their ftalks (5, 5). Separate cluf-
ters of the fame lliarp-pointed figures as thofe at the edges of the drop are alfo
formed in the middle of it. Sometimes alfo they put on another form, like the
leaves of dandelion (7), Very beautiful figures are likewife produced by a kind
of combination of fliarp-points and branches (8, 8). All the cryftals are of a
moft beautiful green colour, but deeper or lighter according to the time of their
production. The deepeft are conftantly produced firft, and the paler ones after-
wards, Towards the end of the procefs forae circular figures are formed,
extremely thin, and fo flightly tinged, with green lines radiating from a centre,
as to be almoft colourlefs (9). When all feems in a manner over, bundles of
hair-like bodies appear frequently fcattered here and there throughout the drop,
like thofe of blue vitriol already defcribed.
4. Alum. The microfcopical cryftals of this fait prove more or lefs perfedl ac-
cording to the ftrength of the folution and the degree of heat employed in making
the experiment. The folution of alum, how'ever faturated with the fait, will not be
found over-ftrong after ftanding fome days ; for in that time many cryftals will
have. formed in it. This fepar ation will often leave the remainder too w'eak for the
purpofe ;
but, by holding the vial over or near the fire, the cryftals will again dilTolve.
After it has ftood about half an hour, it may then be ufed. The drop put on the
glafs, and properly heated, exhibits commonly at firft a dark cloud which appears
in motion fomewhere near the edge, and runs pretty fwiftly both to the right and
left, until it is either ftopped by the intervention of regular cryftals, or elfe it pro-
ceeds both ways at once, till, having furrounded the whole drop, the two ends rufti
together, and join into one («, a). This cloudy part, which feems to be violently
agitated while it is running round, appears on a ftribt examination to confift offalts,
Ihot into long and very flender lines, much finer than the fmalleft hair, crofting
each other at right angles. As they go along, rows of folid cryftals are produced
from their internal edges. Thefe are compofed of many oblique plain fides (b,
and w'hich have all a tendency towards the figures of the regular cryftals to be de-
3 fcribed
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. £5i
fcrlbedprefently. But it frequently happens, that, in fome parts of the drop, many
minute and circular figures are feen rifing at fome little diftances from the edge,
which, enlarging themfelves continually, appear at laft of a ftar-hke form. The
cryftals in the middle feldom appear till the fluid feems almoft wholly evaporated
;
when, on a fudden, many ftraight lines appear puflring forwards, whofe fides or
edges are jagged, and from which other fimilar ftraight and jagged lines flioot out
at right angles with the firft. Thefe again have other final! ones of the fame kind
Ihooting out likewife from themfelves, and compofe all together a moft beautiful
and elegant configuration (D), Each oftheTh lines, increafing in breadth towards
its end, appears as "if it were fomewhat club-headed (e, e, e). Sometimes, in-
ftead of fending branches from their fides, many of thefe lines rife parallel to each
other, refembling a kind of palifado, and having numberlefs minute tranfverfe
lines Tunning between them (F). But the moft w’onderful part of all, though not
producible without an exadl degree of heat and right management, is the dark
ground-work (G). It confifts of an infinity of parallel lines having others eroding
them at right angles, and producing a variety fcarcely conceivable from lines dit-
pofed in no other manner ;
the direHion of the lines (w'hich areexquifitely ftraight
and delicate) being fo frequently and differently changed, that one would think
it the refult of long ftudy and contrivance. During the timh this ground-work
is framing, certain lucid points prefent themfelves to view moft commonly on one
fide. Thefe grow continually larger, with radiations from a centre, and become
ftar-like figures as before mentioned. Some of them fend out long tails, which
give them the appearance of comets : and, at the end of all, a dark lineation in
various direfilions darts frequently through, and occupies all or moft of the fpaces
between them, making thereby no ill reprefentation, when viewed by candle-light;,
of a dark fky illuminated with ftars and comets. The regular cryftals are often
formed in the fame drop with the others.
5. Borax. If a drop of folution of borax is held too long over the fire, it
hardens on the flip of glafs in fuch a manner that no cryftals can appear. The
beft method is to give it a brilk heat for about a fecond, and then, applying it to the
microfeope, the cryftals will quickly form themfelves as reprefented in the figure.
6. Sal ammoniac, or muriatofammoniac, begins with ihooting from the edges great
numbers of lharp, but at the fame time thick and broad, fpiculae ;
from whofe fides
are protruded, as they rife, many others of the fame fliape, but very ihort, parallel
to each other, but perpendicular to their main ftem ( I). Thefe fpiculm arrange
themfelves in all directions, but for the moft part obliquely to the plane from whence
they rife, and many are frequently feen parallel to one another (1, 1 ). As they con-
tinue to pufh forwards, which they do without increafing much in breadth, fome flioot
from
252 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
from them the fmall fpiculse only (2) ;
others divide in a fingular manner by the fplit-
ing of the ftem ;
others branch into fmaller ramifications (4). Before the middle of
the drop begins to fhoot, feveral exceedingly minute bodies may be difcernable at the
bottom of the fluid. Thefe in a little while rife to the top, and foon diftinguilh
their Ihape as at (5). Their growth is very quick, and for fome time pretty equal
;
but at laft fome branch gets the better of the reft, and forms the figure (6). The
other branches enlarge but little after this, all the attrafition feeraing to be lodged
in that one that firft began to lengthen ;
and from this more branches being pro-
truded, and they again protruding others, the whole appears as at (8). It is
not uncommon to fee in the middle of the drop fome cryftals, where, inftead of
the ftraight ftems above defcribed, there is formed a kind of zig-zag, with Ipiculse
like thofe in the other figures (7).
7. Salt of lead, or faccharum faturni, A little of this fait diflblved in hot water,
which it immediately renders milky, after ftanding a quarter of an hour to fubfide,
is in a fit condition for an examination by the microfcope. A drop ofit then applied
on a flip ofglafs, and held over the fire to put the particles in afition, will be feen
forming round the edge a pretty even and regular border ofa clear and tranfparent
film or gluy fubftance faaaaj; which, if too bidden and violent a heat be given,
runs over the whole area ofthe drop, and hardens fo on the glafs as not to be got off
W’ithout great difficulty. But, if a moderate warmth be made ufe of, which likewife
muft not be too long continued, this border proceeds only a little way into the drop,
with a kind of radiated figure compofed offine lines, or rather bundles of lines, be-
ginning from the centres to the interior edge of the border, and fpreading out at
nearly equal diftances from each other every way, towards the exterior fbbbb). From
the fame centres are produced afterward a radiation inwards, compofed of parallel-
ograms of different lengths and breadths ; from one and fometimes both the angles
of thefe, are frequently feen fliootings fo exceedingly flender, that they are perhaps
the beft poflible reprefentations of a mathematical line. The extremities of the
parallelograms are generally caft off at right angles, but they are fometimes alfo
feen oblique (cccc). Centres with the like radii iffuing from them, and fome of
the glutinous matter for their root, are fometimes formed in the drop, entirely
detached from the edges ;
and in thefe it is very frequent to find a kind of fe-
condary radii proceeding from fome of the primary ones; and others from them
to a great number of gradations, forming thereby a very pretty figure (D).
8. Salt of tin produces at the edges of the drop a number of o6laedra, partly
tranfparent, ftanding on long necks, at fmall diftances from each other, with an-
gular fhoots between them (aaJ. At the fame time folid and”regular opaque cubes
will be feen forming themfelves in other parts of the drop fbbj. In the middle of the
fame
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES, 253
fame drop, and in feveral other parts of it, very different figures will alfo be formed;
particularly great numbers of fiat, thin, tranfparent, hexangular, bodies (ccc): fome
among which are thicker (e); and a few appear more folid, and with fix doping
fides arifing to a point, as if cut and polilhed {d). The figure [f) is compofed of
two high pyramids united at their bafe. Some in this kind of form are found trun-
cated at one of their ends, and others at both. Several of the hexagonal bodies
may be obferved with doping fides, forming a fmooth triangular rifing plane,
whofe angles point to three intermediate fides of the hexagon {g).
9- Epfom fait (fulphat of magnefia) begins to dioot from the edge in jagged
figures (a). From other parts differently-figured cryftals extend themfelves tow ards
the middle, fome of which have fine lines proceeding from both fides of amain ftem,
in an oblique direction ; thofe on one fide diooting upwards in an angle of
about 60“, and thofe omthe other downwards in the fame obliquity (/). Others
produce jags from either fide nearly perpendicular to the main ftem, thereby
forming figures that refemble fome fpecies of the polypody (c); but in others the
jags are diorter (d). Now and then one of the main ftems continues diooting to a
confiderable length, without any branchings from the fides: but at laft fends out two
branches from its extremity (g). Sometimes a figure is produced having many fine
and minute lines radiating from a centre (h). The laft diootings in the middle of
the drop (h) are not unlike the frame-wdrk for the flooring or roofing of a houfe,
but with the angles oblique: and fometimes a form of another kind prefents itfelf (i).
10. Scarborough fait begins to ilioot from the edges: firft of all in portions of
quadrilateral figures, much refembling thofe of common fait; but two of their an-
gles, inftead of 90, are about 100“. They fliootin great numbers round the borders
of the drop, having their fides as nearly parallel,to one another as the figure of the
drop wilt allow : fome proceed but a little way, others farther, before they renew
the dioot faa). In fome places they appear more pointed and longer (5^; and fome-
times, inftead of the diagonal, one of the fides is feen towards the edge, and the
other diooting into the middle (cj. The middle cryftals (d ef) feem to be of the
vitriolic kind,
11. Glauber’s fait, or fulphat of foda, produces ramifications from the fide of the
drop, like the growth of minute plants, but extremely tranfparent and elegant (c).
Some of them, however, begin to dioot from a centre at fome diftance from the
edge, and protrude branches from that centre in a contrary direction (h). Sometimes
they dioot from one and fometimes from more fides of the central point in different
varieties (d). Other figures are produced from different parts of the edge of the
drop (a, /, e); but the raoft remarkable and beautiful cryftallization forms laft of alj
near the middle of the drop. It is compofed of a number of lines proceeding from
No, 17. 3 T on.e
A KEY TO PHYSIC
one another at right angles, with tranfparent fpaces and divifions running between
them, appearing altogether like ilreets, alleys, and fquares fgg). When this cryftal-
lization begins, it forms with great rapidity, affording the obferver a very agreeable
entertainment: but its beauty is of very fliort duration; in a few moments it diffolves
and vanifhes like melted ice, which renders drawing it very difficult.
12. Salt of Jefuits bark. The few fhootings which this fait produces at the edge
of the drop are of no regular figure (aJ. The whole area becomes quickly filled with
great numbers of rhombi, of different fizes, extremely thin and tranfparent (hJ.
Some of thefe enlarge greatly, and acquire a confiderablethicknefs, forming them-
felves into folids of many fides (c c). Near the conclufion fome cryflals of fea-falt
are formed {ddj, and likewife a few odd triangular figures (e).
1 3. Salt of liquorice begins fliooting from the edge with a fort of rhombic fpi-
culse (aj. Some four-branched figures like thofe of vitriol commonly appear, but
moulder away before their ramifications are completed, leaving only their ftamina
behind (bbj. The middle of the drop is ufually overfpread with great numbers of
parallelograms, fome exceedingly tranfparent, being mere planes; having fometimes
one, fometimes more, of the angles canted in fuch a manner as to produce pentago-
nal, hexagonal, and other, figures. Others have much thicknefs, and form paral-
lelopipeds or prifms (c). Some of the plane figures now and then protrude an ir-
regular kind of fliooting which appears very pretty (d).
14. Salt ofwormwood, or carbonatof potafli. The firft fliootings of this fait from the
edges of the drop appear of a confiderable thicknefs in proportion to their length
:
their fides are deeply and fliarplyjagged or indented, being made u p ofmany fomewhat-
obtufe angles, and their ends point with angles ofthe fame kind fa). But other Ihoots
frequently branch out from thefe original ones, and they again fend forth others,
making all together a very pretty appearance {bb). The cryftals of this fait are very
different from each other, confiding of fquares, rhombi, parallelograms, &c. (c).
13. Salt of tobacco. If a moderate degree of heat be given to a folutkm of this
fait, its firff fliootings will be from the edges of the drop, in flender tapering figures,
ending with very fliarp points, but at confiderable diftances from one another.
Along with thefe are formed other cryftals, nearly of the fame kind, but entirely
detached, and farther within the drop, having the thicker ends towards the centre
of the drop, and the ftiarp points turned towards its edge (a). When a little more
heat has been given, other fpiculae are produced from the edge, whofe ends fpread
on either fide, and then terminate in a point, and which have all along their fides tri-
angular pointed cryftals, placed alternately, fo as to reprefent a zig-zag with a line
drawn through its middle (&). The regular cryftals are produced in the middle of
the drop, and are either hexagons or rhombi (c). When the moifture is nearly exha-
7 led,
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 253
led, there are fometimes feen to flioot from, or rather under, the fpiculae, upon the
plane of the glafs, a reprefentation of leaves, very fmall at their firft appearance,
but gradually increafing (d). A violent agitation may be difcovered in the fluid by
the firft magnifier during the whole procefs, but efpecially at the beginning, and
extremely minute cryftals arifing from the bottom.
Ifi. Salt of hartfliorn. On the application of a very fmall degree of heat, fait of
hartfliorn ftioots near the edges of the drop into folid figures fomewhat refembling
razors or lancets, where the blade turns into the handle by a clafp (r/). The cryftals
of this fait are produced with great velocity, and are fomewhat opaque, fiiooting
from the edges of the drop, on both fidesof a main ftem, and with a kind of regularity,
rugged branches like thofe of fome forts of coral (a a). But fometimes, inftead
of thefe branches, fliarp fpiculae, fome plain, and others jagged, are protruded to
a confiderable depth on one fide only (b). As the fluid exhales, fome one of the
branching figures generally extends to a great length, producing on one fide fhoots
that are rugged and irregular, and on the other curious regular branches refembling
thofe of fome plant (c).
17. Salt of urine ftiOots from the edges of the drop in long parallelograms like
nitre (aa). But in other places, along the fides of the drop folid angles are formed,
that feem to be the rudiments of common fait (b). Some of the parallelograms in-
creafe much in fize, and fpread themfelves in the middle, fo as to change their firft
figure, and become three or four times bigger than the reft ;
and thefe have a divi-
ding line that runs through their whole length from end to end, whence iffue other
fhort lines at fmall diftances, oppofite to one another, all pointing with the fame
degree of obliquity towards the bafe (cc). Among thefe enlarged figures fome few
ftioot ftill forward and tapering towards a point, but, before they form one, fwell
again, and begin as it were anew; and thus they proceed feveral times before their
figure is quite finiflied (aa). The figures 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, are the regular cryftals of
this fait when it is allowed to diflblve in the air, and no heat at all is giv?en.
18. Rheum, or the clear liquor which diftils from the noftrils when people catch
cold, is ftrongly faturated with fait. A drop of it on a flip of glafs will foon cry-
ftallize in a beautiful manner, either with or without heat ; but if heated to about
the warmth of the blood, and then viewed through the microfedpe, many lucid
points will be feen rifing and increafing gradually, till their form is lliown to be
quadrangular, with two tranfparent diagonals crofting each other (dd). Thefe di-
agonals ftioot foon after far beyond the fquare, protruding other lines at right angles
from their fides ; and thus they go on to form the moft elegant and beautiful cry-
ftals (6&, cc). When a drop of rheum is fet to cryftallize without any heat, inftead
of branched cryftals over the whole area, fuch are formed only in the middle ;
but,
about
256 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
about the edg;es, plant-like figures are produced, fliooting feveral ftetns from oner
point, and refembling a kind of mofs (E).
19. Camphor, though infoluble in water, diffolves very readily in fpirit of wine.
A drop of this folution fpread upon a flip of glafs cryftallizes inftantly in the beau-
tiful manner reprefented in the figure.
20. Manna ealily diflblves in water, and a drop of the folution is a very pretty
object. Its firfl: fliootings are radiations from points at the very edge of the drop ; the
radiating lines feem opaque, but are very flender (a a a). Amongft thefe arife many
minute tranfparent columns, whofe ends grow wider gradually as they extend in
lengtlv and terminate at laft with fome degree of obliquity {b). Some few- figures,
radiating from a centre every way, and circumfcribed by an outline, are produced
within the drop [d d). But the moft furprifing and elegant configuration is compo-
fed of many clufters of radiations fliooting one from another over great part of
the drop, and making all together a figure not unlike a beautiful fea-plant.
Of animal magnetism
ANIMAL MAGNETISM is a fympathy which exifts between the magnet and
the infenfible perfpiration of the human body, whereby an cether, or univerfal efflu-
via, is made to pafs and repafs through the pores of the cuticle, in the fame manner
as the eledtrical fluid paflfes through bodies ;
and by which many cures are performed.
The fyftem originated, in 1774, from a German philofopher named Father Hehl,
who greatly recommended the ufe of the magnet in medicine, M. Mefmer, a phy-
fician of the fame country, by adopting the principles of Hehl, became the direft
founder of the fyftem. He had already diftinguilhed himfelf by a Dilfertation on
the Influence of the Stars upon the human Body, which he publicly defended in a
thefis before the univerfity of Vienna. He afterwards made a tour through Ger-
m any, publilhing every-wbere the great cures he performed by means of animal
magnetifm; and arrived at Paris in the beginning of the year 1778. Here he was
firft patronifed by the author of the Diftionnaire des Merveilles de la Nature; in
which work a great number of his cures were publilhed, Mefmer himfelf receiving
likewife an ample teftimony of his candour and folid reafoning. Our phyfician foon
colle6led fome patients ;
and in the month of April 1778 retired to Creteil, from
whence he in afliort time returned with them perfe6lly cured. His fuccefs was now
great ;
and patients increafed fo rapidly, that the do6lor was foon obliged to take
pupils to affift him in his operatons. Thefe pupils fucceeded equally well as
Mefmer himfelf ;
and fo great was their emolument, that one of them, named
Deflon, realized upwards of 100,0001. fterling. In 1779 Mefmer publiflied ame-
mojr
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES, 257
moir on the fubje£l of Animal Magnetifm, promifing aferwards a complete work
upon the fame, which fliould make as great a revolution in philofophy as it had
already done in medicine.
The new fyllem gained ground daily; and foon became fo fafhionable, that the
jealoufy of the faculty was thoroughly awakened, and an application concerning it
was made to the French government. In confequence of this, a committee was ap-
pointed to inquire into the matter, confifting partly of phyficians and partly of
members of the Royal Academy of Sciences at Paris, with Dr. Franklin at their
head. Mefmer himfelf refufed to have any communication with the committee :
hut his moft celebrated pupil Dellon was lefs fcrupulous, and explained the prin-
ciples of his art in the following manner.
’’
1. Animal magnetifm is att univerfal fluid, conftituting an abfolute plenum in
nature, and the medium of all mutual influence between the celeftial bodies, and
between the earth and animal bodies. 2. It is the moft fubtile fluid in nature ; capa-
ble of a flux and reflux, and of receiving, propagating, and continuing, all kinds
of motion. 3. The animal body is fubjedled to the influences of this fluid by means
of the nerves, which are immediately affedled by it. 4-. The human body has poles
and other properties analogous to the magnet. 5. The adiion and virtue of animal
magnetifm may be communicated from one body to another, whether animate or
inanimate. 6. It operates at a great diftance, without the intervention of any body.
7. It is increafed and refledled by mirrors; communicated, and propagated, and in-
creafed, by found ; and may be accumulated, concentrated, and tranfported. 8.
Notwithftanding the univerfality of this fluid, all animal bodies are not equally af-
fected by it ;
on the other hand, there are fome, though but fe^ in number, the pre-
fence of which deftroys all the effeCls of animal magnetifm. c 9- By means of this
fluid, nervous diforders are cured immediately, and others mediately; and its virtues,
m fliort, extend to the univerfal prefervatioh of mankind.
From this theory, M. Deflon engaged, l.To prove to the commiffioners, that
fuch a thing as animal magnetifm exifted ;
2. To prove the utility of it in the cure
of difeafes; and to communicate to them all that he knew upon the fubjeCl. The
commiffionefs accordingly attended in the room where the patients underwent the
magnetical operations. The apparatus confifted of a circular platform made of oak,
and raifed about a foot and a half from the ground. At the top of it were a num-
ber of holes, in which were iron rods with moveable joints for the purpofe of apply-
ing them to any part of the body. The patients were placed in a circle round it, each
touching an iron rod, which he could apply to any part of the body at pleafure
;
they were joined to one anothe® by a cord pafling round their bodies, the defign be-
ing to increafe the effcCl by communication. In one corner of the room was a piano-
No. 17. 3 U forte,
25S A KEY TO PHYSIC
forte, on which fome airs are played, occafionally accompanied with a fong. Each,
of the patients held in his hand an iron rod ten or twelve feet long ;
the intention
of which was to concentrate the magnetifm in its point, and thus to render its ef-
fects more fenfible. Sound is another condu6tor of this magnetifm ;
and, in order
to communicate the magnetifm to the piano-forte, nothing more is neceffary than to
bring the iron rod near it. Some magnetifm is alfo furniflied by the perfon who
plays it ;
and this magnetifm is tranfmitted to the patients by the founds. The in-
ternal part of the platform was fo contrived as to concentrate the magnetifm, and
was the refervoir whence the virtue diffufed itfelf among the patients.
Befides the different W'ays of receiving the magnetifm already mentioned, viz. by
the iron, cord, and piano-forte, the patients alfo had it directly from the dodtor’s'
finger, and a rod which he held in his hand, and which he carried about .the face,
head, or fuch parts of the patient as w'ere difeafed ;
obferving always the dire6lion
of the poles. His principal application of magnetifm, however, was by prelfure of
the hands or fingers on the hypochondria, or lower region of the ftomach.
The effe6ts of thefe operations upon Deflen’s patients were very amazing. Some
fpit, coughed, and fweat, and felt extraordinary heats in different parts of the body.
Many had convulfions, which is what is called their crifis, &c.—The commiffioners
after this determined to try the experiments themfelves ;
for the fluid was totally
imperceptible by any of the fenfes, and they could only afcertain its exiftence by
its ultimately curing difeafes, or by its obfervable effe6ts upon the human body.
The pra6lice having been fince purfued in England with great fuccefs by the
‘ingenious Dr. Bell, I ihall give the procefs and effe^s of this difcovery in his own
words.
“There is an univerfal fluid which fills all fpace. Every body is endowed with
a certain quantity of eledlric fluid. There exifls an attraftion and repulfion, or fym-
pathy and antipathy, between animated bodies. The univerfal currents of the uni-
verfal fluid, are the caufe and exiftence of bodies. One may accelerate thofe cur-
rents in a body, and produce crifis and fomnambulifm, which is done by a6ling re-
ciprocally upon one another, by increafing the currents going acrofs their interftices
or pores, in confequence of the abfolute will of the operator. As there exifts a ge-
neral and reciprocal gravitafton of all celeftial bodies towards each other, fo there
exifts a particular and reciprocal gravitation of the conftitutive parts of the earth
towards the whole, and of that whole towards each of its parts.
“ The reciprocal a6lion of all thefe bodies is operated upon by the infenfible
perfpiration, or vapour, flowing in and out, as you fee in a real loadftone or in
an artificial magnet, forming an outfide atmofphere ;
it alfo produces currents
kk A more or lefs direct manner, according to the analogy of bodies. That which
7 can
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 259
can moft effectually on a fickly man, is one who is in a good flate of health, and
is of a fimilar conftitution—the power of man in a good ftateof health will be then
more powerful in confequence of the latter’s w'eaknefs, who receives more than he
gives ;
it will increafe the circulation, and produce beneficial effeCts.
“ The refpeCtive pofition of two beings aCting on one another is not indifferent.
To judge what that pofition fliould be, we ought to confider each being as a whole
compounded of different parts, of which each poffeffes a form, or particular tonical
movement. It is of courfe by that means eafily underftood, that two beings have
over each other the greatefl influence poffible, when they are fo placed that their
analogous parts aCt on one another in the moft harmonical manner. It is neceffary
that the perfon w'ho fubmits to be treated is willing, as well as that the operator’s
mind mufl be abfolute, and think of nothing but of the different fenfations he then
feels. Credite Sf volete. (This is the fecret.)
“ Therefore, in order that two perfons may aCl on each other in the ftrongeft
manner poffible, they muft be placed oppofite each other; from North to South
is the beft; you turn your patient’s facetow'ards the South ;
you may treat in other
directions, according to your ideas and circumftances. In that oppofite pofition
your atmofpheres are joining ;
and you may be confidered as forming but one whole,
acting in an harmonic manner. When a man fuffers, all the aCtion of life is directed
towards him in order to deftroy the caufe of fuffering; likewife, when two perfons
are aCting on each other, the whole aCtion of that union aCts on the difordered parts
with a force proportioned to the increafe of the mafs. It may therefore be in ge-
neral afferted, that the aCtion of animal eleCtricity and Magnetifm, &c. increafes
in proportion to the malfes.
“ It is poffible to direct the aCtion of Animal EleCtricity and Magnetifm more
particularly on any individual part, by fixing your idea and directing the fluid upon
the part affeCted. Our arms may be confidered as conductors to the animal fluid,
and ferve to attraCt or repel according to our will, and eftablifh a kind of continui-
ty between bodies. It follows, from what has been faid on the moft advantageous
pofition of two beings acting on each other in order to maintain the harmony of the
whole, one ought to touch the right part with the left arm, and the light toot in
contact w ith the left. In that pofition you are in affinity with your patient, your
two atmofpheres are joined ; it fliows the oppofition of poles in the human body^,
and is nearly the fame as thofe which may be obferved in the loadftone, or artifi-
cial magnet.
“ Paracelfus, as well as many other anatomifts, have admitted poles in man. Mr.
George Adams, in his Treatife on Magnetifm, juftly fays, ‘In fome future period
it may be difcovered that moft bodies are polfeffed of a polarity, as well as one
direction
250 A KEY TO PHYSIC
direftion relative to the various affinity of the elements of which they are com*
pounded. The better to conceive the poles of the human body, we ought to confider
man divided into two parts, by a line drawn from the top to the pubis ;
all the
joints of the left part may be confidered as poles oppofite to thofe correfponding
herewith ;
the fluid paffes out more fenfibly, and in a greater abundance, from the
extremities, as thofe extremities are confidered as poles oppofite to the right, and
are the befl condudlors of the animal fluid.
“ You may give polarity to animate and inanimate bodies ;
that is to fay, to in-
creafe an a6lion to a degree which they had not before, only by a fri6tion very near-
ly refembling that which you give to a piece of fteel before it becomes a magnet,
except that it will not be fo palpable. You may alfo change the poles in the hu-
man body pretty nearly the fame as you change thofe of a magnet. You may alfo
flrengthen or increafe the a6lion of Animal Ele6tricity and Magnetifm by animate
and inanimate bodies, as you may increafe the a6tion of an artificial magnet by add-
ing more magnets, provided the poles are contrary ; therefore every thing is filled
in the univerfe by means of an univerfal fluid in which all bodies are immerfed, and
therefore all beings touch one another in confequence of the continual circulation
by which the currents of the magnetic fluid flow out and pafs in ;
and in confequence
of this you may affe6l a perfon at a diftance, provided he is of a weak habit of body,
and has been in a crifis before you put the column of air into vibration which ex-
ifts between the perfon you treat and yourfelf ;
that will aflfedt him, as is feen
or felt by the force of founds at a concert.
“ In order to be in affinity or harmony with your patient, you muft touch him by
the hand ; as there is a circulation which forms itfelf between you and him, and tends
to an equilibrium, it is generally by that means eafier to take your patients out of
their crifis. You next hold up both your hands parallel to the head, and bring
them gently down as far as the pubis ;
you may follow the dire6lion of the nerves ;
then fix your hands upon the diaphragm or ftomach, where lies the greateft abun-
dance of nerves; you may put your thumbs upon the plexus, and put the nerves m
motion; you may alfo fix one hand upon the ftomach, and draw the other towards
you; by that mean yoattradt orrepel at pleafure.—There are various ways ofma-
nipulation, which the operator makes ufe of, according to circumftances. If you
with to procure fleep foon, change your pofition ;
get either to the right fide of your
patient or left ; in that pofition you fix one of your hands before the head, and the
other behind ;
keep them there with all your might, till you feel fome heat in the
palm of the hand. If the perfon is not inclined to fleep, you muft charge the head
in different diredtions, by ftiutting your hands as if you were boxing—then you open
them quick, and this you repeat often ;
the perfon feels then a drowfmefs.—You
muft
•
%
AND THE OCCULT SGIF^NCES. 26
1
muft keep your hands in oppofition as beiwe; by thefe meelns the animal fluid gets
into the abforbent velfels—a6ls alfo upon the nerves, Which* ftimulates the body and
produces a erifis. If you fee the patient too much agitated, get oppofite to him,
and bring both your hands downwards from head to foot, or as if you were to fona
perfon, and, getting backwards, it will compofe him.—^Then you feek for the caufe
and place of the illnefs ;
or you hold the perfon s hand, and you afk him wh^re he
feels pain, as it is increafed by treating : if he does not anfwer your queflions pro-
perly, it is a fign he is not in a pei'feft ftatte of fomnambulifm ;
you muft keep him
afleep Ibnger without fpeaking to him.—You then feek for the feat of the difeafe,
by extending your hahd at a little diftance from hiS body, beginning from head to
foot; if your fenfations are good, you may feel, with a little attention, withih yOuf-
felf, pains in the fame part as w here the perfon is affedfed—or you may feel at the end
of your fingers a heat, if it is an inflammation or obftru6tion ; if you feel a dold-nefs,
it is in the lymphatic ve{fels‘; if bilious, you feel a rtumbnefs ;
and many other ways
which different conftilutions feel either of fhefe cipcomftances will infofm yon
where the difeafe lies. —But by touching, which is the ftireft'way, you foon become
certain of the feat and caufe of the difeafe, which fometiines lies in the oppofite
fide to the pain, particularly in nervous affections, &fc. You may touch, if you
like, the caufe of the difeafe, or charge it as you do the head ;
by that means you
keep up the fymptomatieal pain, till you have rendered it critical
—you fecond the"
effort of nature againft the caufe of the difeafe, and aCt like a ftimulus, which Will
produce a falutary erifis, by putting the whole frame in aCtion, which will remove
any difeafe proceeding from obftru6tions, &c. after the patient finds himfelf com'*
pofhd, and 'the caufb of the diforder diminifhed. When the patient afleep^ you-
afk him if it is time to ta:ke him out of it ;
if he anfwers Yes, draw your hands to*
wards his bead d6wn to the feet, and rbb yOur eyes w'ithyoiir thumbs feveral times,-
and wave you'r h and as if you were to a perfon who is too hot—^you getby de*
grees backwards till he is recovered'.'
“The caufe of mod: part of difeafes is an irritability or feVer, debility or ob-'
ftru6tion ;
by the fVownefs or abolition of motion, it is an obftTu^lion or debili^,
and by its acceleration produces an irritability, inflammation, and fever.
“ The feat of thofe difeafCs is generally in the vifecra, as theinteftinesi the fpleen,
the liver, the epiploon, the mefentery, the loins; See. in women, the ftomaeh, the
womb. Sec. Thefe aberrations or obftnidtions are an impediment in the circulation
of one part, which preffes on the blood or lymphatic veffels, and on the nerves,
which produce thofe fpafms, on account that 'the fluid circulates flowly. For that
reafon, thofe perfons are the fOoneft affebled; and put into a crifik, when they are
labouring under thofe maladifes ;
if thofe-veffels prefs upon the "foot ofa nCfve, the
No. 17. 3 X motion
162 A KEY TO PHYSIC
motion and fenfibility of the correfponding parts are quite fuppreffed, as in an apo-
plexy, pally, &c. There is not a better condudtor for the animal fluid than the
nerves, as they are fpread all over the body ;
they abound more particularly in the
diaphragm, ftomachical and umbilical plexus, where lies the root of the nerves,
which extend their branches (as a tree does its branches and roots in the earth) all
over the body.
“ Many philofophers have thought it is in them that the foul lies : it is through
them that the fomnambules fee in the dark when their eyes are Ihut.—When you
treat a perfon, you mull follow as much as poflfible the direftion of the nerves ;
you may treat at a fmall diftance, and fix your hand upon the part affe6led, and
by motion you put the column of air (which exifts between you and your patient)
into vibration, which will caufe an irritation and produce a crifis.
“ Many profelfors make ufe of condudlors, either glafs, Heel, filver, or gold ;
about eight inches long; they have a good effedl in fome cafes : all this proceeds
from the idea of the operator. Mr. Mefmer tells us, ‘
When you make ufe of
condu6tors, you mull magnetife from right to right that is, the poles are
changed.—I have repeatedly produced the fame effedl by treating from left to left,
except when I have put a perfon into a deep without a condudlor; if while afleep
I magnetifed them from right to right, fome have gone into a crifis, others have
awaked. If you touch the forehead with your right hand, you muft put your left
in oppofition behind; and in the fame manner to any other part of the body, be-
caufe there is a re-a6lion of fluid from one pole to the other, like a magnet; for Dr.
Mefmer reprefents the human body as a magnet. If you eftablifli the North to the
right, the left becomes the South, and the middle like the equator, which is with-
out predominant a6lion. I repeat it ;
it is moft advantageous to be oppofite the
perfon you want to treat, in order to cure him effeftually. Curing confifts in re-
eilabliihing the difturbed harmony—the general remedy is the application of animal
fluid, which ferves to re-eftabliih the equilibrium which is loft in fome part of the
body. As there is but one difeafe, there is but one remedy ;
if motion is dimi-
niftied, it ought to be increafed : if there is too great irritability, it ought to be de-
creafed ;
as it is on folid bodies that this fluid operates, particularly on our vifeera,
in order to rectify them, as they are deftined by Nature to prepare, todiffolve, and
aflimilate our humours, they fhould be brought to their equilibrium by any means
whatever, by employing either internal or external remedies ;
but we ought to be
very cautious how we adminifter them, except fuch as the patients will order for
themfelves or preferibe for others, which are generally very Ample. There are few
remedies taken internally which are good, becaufe, when received into the ftomach
and the firft paffages, they experience the fame elaboration as our aliments, the parts
of
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 263
of which analogous to our humours are affimilated there by chylification, and the
heterogeneous particles are expelled by the means of excretions. Thofe remedies
which may be given will often prove to have efFe6ls contrary to the intentions of
the prefcriber, becaufe moft of them are very aqueous, ftimulate too much, and
will increafe irritation, fpafms, &c. and produce effedls difcordantto the harmony of
the parts, w-hich ought to be eftablilhed and reftored to their proper equilibrium. If
treating is not fufficient to produce vdmiting in the cafe of a perfon who has too
much putridity, or abundance of bile w hich has been too long Handing, then a gen-
tle emetic is to be given, or magnefia if there is too much acid ;
if alkali is predo-
minant, order a folution of tartar, or of any other acid which you think will agree
with your patient. In cafe of a violent cholic or coftivenefs, or fore throat, in-
je6I.ions are the bell. Thefe are the general remedies which ought to be adminif-
tered to the patients, as I am fure that all thofe preparations of minerals, &c. which
we fee in an apothecary’s Ihop, were never intended by Nature for the human body.
Mod^n phyficians have, from an interefted view, negle6led the knowledge of the
vegetable kingdom, more adapted by Providence for the human body. The diet of
the patient is whatever Nature points out to him : it is Ihe who didlates what every
man ought to follow, becaufe Ihe feldom deceives us in our manner of living. It is
not what we eat, nor the quantity, w hich does good—It is what we digell. Animals
by inftin6l will never touch any thing but what Nature has di6tated to them. In this
their inftinft is far fuperior to our reafon. Spirituous liquors are forbidden, ftrong
green tea without milk, coffee, hot aliments, and the ufeof fnulF, becaufe it irritates
the pituitary membranes in the throat, the llomach, and the head, and will produce
ciifpation and irritation. The ufual drink may be water with a bit of toaft in it;
wine and water, or good rich wine, old fmall beer, good porter, lemonade, or diffe-
rent fyrups, all thefe may be ordered according to the cafe of the patient. The food
may be good broth, either of beef, mutton, or veal, chicken boiled, and roafted
meat Avoid fait or fat meat ; make ufe of fallads, good ripe fruits, &c. Gentle
exercife in the open air, either riding or walking. Cold or warm baths are moft
excellent ; the drinking of fome mineral waters is good :
—in fa6l, a good obferver
(though not a phyfician) may cure more people than a man of the faculty—
^
becaufe a do^or never goes without an apothecary—they all go together hand in
hand, and do more harm than good.
If you have but one patient, and cannot move him out of bed, gather round him as
many healthy perfons as you can ;
make them rub their hands well—then make
them hold one another, and communicate to the patient : this is what I calfibrjping
a chain,—by that you communicate to him the animal fluid, which will vivify him
if he is not too much debilitated. You may fet him upon an infulated ftool,
as
A KEY TO PHYSIC
as when you electrify a perfon ;
you ma}’ fet him upon a chair, and make a healthy
perfon fit upon the fame chair hack to back. You may magnetife a tree in a^jir-
den ;
vou may have one in your room, or a fraall refervoir.—There are various
ways, wliich depend upon the idea ot the magnetifer.
“ There are feveral ways ot treating and curing; in which, however, much attention
and prudence are required. But a prudent man, willing to do good to his fellow-
creatures who labour under any infirmities, will never treat his patient in public,
and make them walk in their deep, or do many other things : it is very well to con-
\’!oce incredulous people of the efFefts, but cannot do good to the patient. I will
fay alfo, that a jrerfon cannot treat more than two or three patients in a day to dp
them juftice, and thofe w ho do treat more feldom cure by magnetifmg alone; the
patients may fancy they have been cured ;
—but, if they had not been fo treated,,
they might alfo have been well; as their treatments are long, Nature .operates, and
is, a better doctor. There are fume who will firmly affure you they have cured peo-
ple at the diftance of tw o or three hundred miles ofiT, without ever having feen the
patients, and have put them into crifes. —I will anfw'er tl>em, they are either fools or
madmen; their imagination being heated with this idea, they are like vifionaries. I
ivie,'v an ingenious pbyfician w'ho faw every body with the yellow jaundice, and
another who thought that evei’y body had a virus in their blood, and all the patients,
who applied to him he treated as having a gallicus morbus,; and another who pre-
tended to cure every body only by looking at them : all thefe are fomp degrees of
infanity. I knew feveral perfons who fuppofed I had been treating them after I
had left their houfes ;
they fall afleep fome twenty miles off, and they have related
this as a faft to feveral of their friends, while I never thought of them ; and never-
thelefs, fuppofe I had been treating them, and they might by chance fall afleep,
I could not with propriety relate the ftory as a fa6l, becaufe it muft be repeated
often to hold good. I never reft my judgment upon a fingle experiment; in ex-
perimental philofophy fa6ls are ftubborn, and no one can contradict them when
repeated. Now I ftiall explain the manner of treating and curing effectually, on
reafonable principles, each complaint particularly.
“ Suppofe your patient has a head-ach. You feat him in a chair, the back to-
w.ards the North, or othervvife; you fit oppofite to him ;
you put yourfelf in affinity
with him, as I have obferved before ;
you draw the general current, following the
direction of the nerves ;
you hold your hands the fame as if you were to hold a
pen ;
you feek for the caufe of the pain, which may lie in different parts—^per-
haps the patient will tell you, if you cannot find it out. If it is a hemicrania,iwhicb
is> owing to the foulnefs of the ftomach, you fix your eyes upon your lef{i hand,,
which you direCl towards the ftomachj with your right hand—-you do the famoi
2 as
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. S05
as if you were to turn a pancake; this you repeat feveral times; by that means you ftir
the atmofphere and relax the ftomach, and may make him vomit; you may give a
little warm water to promote your operation; you may alfo treat the head by draw-
ing the fluid downwards, if the pain has been of long Handing; you may order a
vomit or a gentle purge, and treat them every day, and then order bittersto ftrength-
en the ftomach. There are different head-achs : as the cephalalgia, when the head
is affedted flightly in one particular part ;
cephaleea is when the whole head is af-
fe6ted ;
one fide only is called hemicrania, and a fmall fpot affe61;ed is called cia-
vis hyftericus. Thefe various head-achs arife from different caufes : if it proceeds
from obftru6lions, crifes are very falutary, as they put the whole body into motion,
and will remove the caufe. Treating the part which you think affe6ted is very ne-
ceffary; you do the fame with one hand or both, by drawing your hands towards
you feveral times as before. To treat the head, you may apply your hands up-
on the temples, and put your thumb upon the frontal finus, which will often re-
move it.
“ Deafness.—If the want of hearing, proceeds from a fault in the ftru6lure of
the .ear, there is no cure. If it proceeds from cold, fever, hard wax, or drynefs, you
may magnetife according to my principles. You keep yourfelf within a yard or
two, according as you. feel a re-a6lion ; you then fix your left hand towards the ear,
and you move your right open, and bring it towards the left hand, and do the fame
as if you were to clap your hands ;
by that means you put the air into vibration,
and, guided by your left hand as a condu^or, you apply the palm of the hand
upon the ears ;
you may put your thumb in the ear, and with your finger, as you
hold a pinch of fnuff, prefs the thumb towards the ear—you accelerate the fluid in-
to it. You may make ufe of a condu6lor, either glafs or artificial magnet, and put
it into the ear, and prefs with two fingers from the bafis towards the ear; you may
magnetife the head, by drawing the fluid towards you : all thefe means you are to
make ufe of according to your fenfations and judgment ; fometimes an injedlion
made of Caftile foap—warm brandy and w^ater will aflift you in your operation.
“ Of the Tooth-Ach—This violent, though not dangerous, difeafe, proceeds
from rheumatifm, obftrufted perfpiratiooi, inflammation, &c. This being the cafe,
you treat according to my rules. If there is inflammation, you draw the fluid from
the head ;
you touch the temples, the frontal finus, the top of the head, the articu-
lation of the jaws, and under the chin; you may touch the tooth with your index
and thumb ;
but a fure way is to get an artificial magnet, and, as your patient’s face
is towards the South, apply the South pole upon the tooth, and touch the next teeth,
and afterwards draw the fluid downwards, and you will perform a cure.
3 Y “ Disea«es
A KEY TO PHYSIC
2f)6
“ Diseases of the Eyes.—There is nothing fo difficult to cure as thefe difeafes
;
and none of our organs is more fubjedt to be affedled than the fight, or from fo
many caufes. When they proceed from obftrudlions in the culiomary evacuations,
you muft magnetife according to my rules. You treat the caufe, alfo the eyes, by
fixing your thumbs oppofite ;
you prefs withithe index the fluid into the eyes, you
move your thumb oppofite you ;
and may rub the eyes gently; you drop magnetifed
water into them with a quill : this you do three or four times a*day, and you order
a little lemonade or fyrup to your patient.
“ The gutta ferena, ophthalmia, cataract, fpecks on the eyes, and fiftula lacryma-
lis, are very difficult and almoft incurable. 1 have heard many rnagnetifers boafting
of the cures they had made of thefe difeafes. I have had more pradtice in that way
than many of them; I confefs candidly I have made but few. I fliall explain the beft
manner of treating.—You muft know firft the caufe, which you treat ;
afterwards
you apply your thumbs gently on the eyes ;
you rub them often—you fix your
thumb with the next finger at a diftance from the eye ;
but I have had fuccefs in
fome cafes of this kind by making ufe of an artificial magnet, by fixing it at the
diftance of half an inch from them ;
it has by that means removed fpots and gutta
ferena, proceeding from the compreflion of the nerves by fuperfluous humours. I
have dropped magnetifed water three or four times a-day with fuccefs; a proper
regimen is neceflary, and fome internal and external application.
“ Of the Epilepsy and Hysteiuc Affections.—Thefe difeafes are the op-
probrium of the faculty, with many others, as they cannot be cured by internal medi-
cines, except when proceeding from obftrudlions, worms, or affedlion of the mind,
&c. In thofe cafes you treat according to the rules. Firft, touch the head on the
top ;
by applying your thumb on the root of the nofe, you endeavour to diflblve
the obftrudtion which may be the caufe; apply your hand upon the diaphragm,
and endeavour to put the nerves in motion. You may treat at a diftance alfo
;
but try to produce a crifis.^—Dr. Andry, and Tourit, at Paris, have cured feveral
epileptics by applying artificial magnets round the head, or like a horfe-flioe
applied upon the top of the head ;
when they are in a fit, apply a magnet in
each hand, it will foon recover them. I have brought fome to, by applying a key
in their hands ;
they are very good in fpafms, fainting, and cramps—by applying
the magnet under the foot, it ceafes inftantly.
“ Of the ScROPHULA, called the King’s Evil.—This difeafe is a difgrace to
phyfic. Some perfons have had the gift of curing by touching. I have feen in
London tw'o perfons who had been touched by a man after he was- banged ;
they
were relieved ;
but I really believe it w'as the force of imagination ;
being frightened
by the dead man made fuch a revolution in the blood, that it removed the obftruc-
tion
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. m?
tion in the glands. Yon may touch your patient in thofe parts, and draw the ef-
fluvia in order to foften the glands. If there is an ulcer, order the perfon to bathe the
part with magnetifed water, and keep a bit of rag always upon the part. Sea-
bathing, decodlion of celery, and hemlock-juice, may be tried, befidcs treating.
“Soke Thnoat.—Sore tlwoat, or any inflammation in the head, is to be treated
by drawing tlte fluid out of the part, either by putting yourfelf in oppofition, or by
Handing on one fide, and putting one hand behind the neck and the other before.
“ Ofthe Palsy. —The palfy, when it happens to an old perfon, or has been of
long Handing, is feldom cured ;
but if it happens to a middling age, and one fide
only is ftruck, called an hemiplegia, a care will be effedled by being treated foon
after. You may magnetife your patient oppofite, as ufual. After you turn the fide
affedted towards the North, you treat the oppofite fide, which is fuppofed to be
where liesthe caufe: you may touch with one hand along the back-bone, or within
an inch from it, along the great intercoftal, by applying your right hand upon the
ftomach; you treat him about two hours; if you can put him into a crifis, which
is very'eafy, you may expedi to cure him. You make him lift up his bad arm, or
have 'fomebody to fupport it
;
you put a condudtor to his hand to attradl the ijiniyer-
fal fluid ;
you may infulate him, and turn the part affedted tow^ards the North; tie a
filk firing to the ceiling, at the end of it have ftrong compounded magnet, the
North pole parallel to the hand; to the other hand tie likewife another firing, at the
end of which there is a large piece of iron whofe furface is larger than the magnet.
Have an eledlrical machine, and connedl the chain to the patient, then make him
ftretch his arm ;
then touch the magnet and the piece of iron together, or one after
another, to the extremities of the hands, it will cure him ;
I have cured feveral that
way : but this does not belong to Animal Magnetifra, fay many. But has not a
magnetifer a right to cure his patients as foon as poflible, and employ every means
his mind fuggefts to him.? It is not fo among the faculty; they mufl cure or kill them
Jecundem artem, according to art. A general vomit or purge is often neceffary ;
the
diet mufl be good. If the tongue is affedled, put a condudlor upon it, or an artifi.
cial magnet, fuch as you make ufe of for the teeth, by prefling the fluid from the
bafis towards the point ©n the tongue : fometimes a little gargarifm is ufeful. Elec-
tricity and the cold bath are very good.
“ Rheumatism.—Nothing is more common in this country than this difeafe, on
account of the dampnefs and change of the weather, which will abforb the eledlric
and magnetic fluid from flying off certain parts, particularly from the feet, whence
there flies out a greater abundance of fluid than from any other part pf the body.
It is for that reafon dogs will follow our trades. There are very obftinate rheuma-
tifms which proceed from different caufes .and are difficult to cure. The method
of
268 A KEY TO PHYSIC
of curing this difeafe is to magnetife the patient in oppofition; try to promote per-
fpiration, by putting him into a crifis. If the rheumatifm is in a particular part of
the body, you muft treat the part affeded either by touching or rubbing, which is
the heft. \ ou may make ufe of an artificial magnet in the form of a horfe-flioe.
If the rheumatifm is in the head, you apply it upon the top of it ;
if it is on the
face and teeth, apply it on the temples; if it is in the hip, you apply it above the
knee, with the poles up ;
if in the knees, apply k on the tarfus, with the poles up;
if it is on the fhoulders, you place it on the humerus, clavicula, &c. Ele6lricity,
hot and cold bath, earth-bathing, according to Dr. Graham’s principles, &c. &c.
Some internal and e^4telnal applications will affift the operation.
“ CoNsi,'MPTioy, or Decay.'—This difeafe, fo common in England, is difficult
to cure; it proceeds trom want of the animal fluid in the body, which waftes it to
nothing ; therefore it is necelTary that the perfon who treats be very ftrong and heal-
thy. His patient is like a child at the break, pumping his animal juice ;
and he may
be much hurt by it, like a child who lleeps with an old or unhealthy perfon; there-
fore I would advife you to treat as tew as poffible. Riding a young horfe without
a feddle, a cow, a bullock, or to be among cattle, is very good.;, or to fleep in a
ftable, and communicate a rope from the bed to<the cattle, which ferves as a con-
ductor to the animal fluid.
“ Difeafes in the ftomaeb are common in this country among, women, owing to
that pernicious cuftom of wearing flays ;
not only fo, but they muft have a piece
of iron or fteel two or three inches broad, and proportionally thick, in it, called a
bulk, which oeeafions fo many difeafes. They fliould be loofe round the body^
You treat the ftomaeb by throwing fluid into it. Crifes are not good for it.
“ Flatulency, or wind in the ftomach and bowelsj arife from want of tone in thofe
parts. It is to be treated upwards, which will make the patient break wind and
produce a crifts, which is the beft. After the crifts, you muft treat the ftomach
downwards, in order to fettle it; you may order carminatives. Bile on the ftomach
is treated upwards ;
alfo to make the patient vomit, and crifes, are good for it ; a
glafs of magnetifed water afterwards will fettle the ftomach. In all forts of inflamma-
tion of the lungs, liver, &c. you treat towards you, and avoid the crifis as well
as when thofe parts are ulcerated. In the ftone and gravel you treat ;
throw a
quantity of fluid, and produce crifis; it will promote evacuation, which may do
fervice to the patient. In external fwellings, or ulcers, draw towards you, and
bathe with magnetifed water.
“ Pregnant women, and in labour, may be treated without a crifis. I have mag,
netifed women in labour, and putthem afleep while the accoucheur was performing
his duty; the woman did not r^colleft it, and was furprifed afterwards. I have
2 put
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. m
put a man afleep who had an hydrocele; the furgeon performed the operation, but
the patient never recolle6ted any thing of it. Relaxation, and the blood flowing
from a cut, may be flopped by fixing your thumb and prefling the fore-finger
over the part.
“ Fevers of every kind may be cured by crifes ;
it is during that time that na-
ture endeavours to get rid of what difturbs her, either by perfpiration, vomiting,
&c. Thofe people are the bell fomnambulifts, as I fliall explain hereafter. It is
very eafily underltood, by the method I have taken to explain the treating of the
foregoing diforders, that an ingenious magnetifer may treat all others, as it vvould
require a whole volume to explain them.
“ Of Nervous Diseases. It is in thofe difeafes that magnetifm a6ls moft
forcibly, by putting the whole nervous fyftem in motion ;
it operates crifes as well as
fomnambulifm, and offers to the attentive eye a vail field of obfervation. There
is as great a variety in thofe difeafes as there are combinations between all pofiible
numbers. Different organs may be affe6led, and diftindlly from others. In fome
perfons the extenfion of fight is fo great, that it feems as if they made ufe of a mi-
crofcope. Some of them can fee, in the dark, the animal fluid flying in all dire6lions,
and appearing luminous ;
others will fee the fkin appear to them like a fieve, and fee
the grofs humours or perfpiration as big as fmall fhot; and by rubbing the bands
they fee fparks of fire coming out. Mr. Boyle mentions a perfon who, after getting
half-fuddled with claret, (which I fuppofe relaxed the ftomach and his nervous fyftemj^)
when he waked in the night, could fee to read moderate print. Another who could
in the night diflinguifh colours. Grimaldi tells us, that fome women can, by their
eyes alone, diflinguifh between eggs laid by black hens and thofe by white onei^.
This fingle effect will lead to many things which I fliall relate about fomnambules. W^e
muftnot attribute to whim all the fingularities which we obferve among people af-
fedled in the nerves; it is a real caufe, as that which determines the moft reafonable
man. I knew a gentleipan in London, who ihook his head and arm every inftant like
a perpetual motion ;
a lady, I treated when in his company, had the fame involun-
taiy affedion. There are different methods oftreating thofe difeafes, either by treating
without crifes, or with them ; fuch people are the beft fomnambules. If a perfon
is irritable, you treat gently, in oppofition, by drawing a certain quantity of fluid
from him ; if, on the contrary, you throw the fluid towards him, you may put him
into a gentle crifis ;
if the patient has a trembling of the limbs like the head, you
treat that part: if you cannot fucceed by treating, apply a magnetic bandeau round
the head, it will ftop it inftantly. For trembling of the hands, you apply magnetic
bracelets.
No. 18. 3 Z ‘‘To
270 A KEY TO PHYSIC
“ To magnetife, or treat a perfon at a diftance, is not impoffi-ble. The manner
which feveral profeffors make ufe of, is different. There are quacks in that art who
pretend to have found it out before Dr. Mefrner ; but that none of them underftood
it is well known. The faculty of our foul, thought, or idea, can perceive, contem-
plate, and unite itfelf to, any object, prefent or diftant, vifible or invifible. That
it has a6lion upon matter is well demonftrated ;
it a6ts diredlly upon the vivifyincf
eledlric and magnetic fluid, and by its will determines it to be diredled upon fuch
part. We know that our foul a6ls upon our body, and forces any part of it to
move in any diredlion, according to its will. This being the cafe, we may rea-
fonably believe that it may a6l as well upon merely organical matter as upon
animal bodies. The thought, or foul, goes to any diftance. No obftacles can
refift it. It arrives and unites itfelf, by a fympathetic power, to any object it
wiflies, without a mafter of ceremonies ;
neither the fize of the body, its ftrength,
or figure, impede ;
all give way; the union is made in an inftant; the will, and
the will only, is the caufe of it, becaufe it directs the fluid towards the difeafed
and affedted vifcera, by fixing them in your imagination, as much as it is pofli-
ble; and by that means it will force the magnetic fluid to touch and to penetrate to
a great diftance any bodies to which the foul is willing to unite herfelf, and to re-
eftablifh the animal oeconomy, of which Ihe is the indeftru6tible principle. Thefe
reflexions ftiow the poflibility, and the mean made ufe of, to treat a perfon
at a diftance ; of which experience will fhow the reality, and an ingenious mind
may make many curious experiments: repeated trials will convince us.
“ To treat a perfon at a diftance, from one houfe to another, is poffible, provided
you have feen the perfon before, and put him in a crifis. The manner you do this,
is to know where the perfon is, and fix the hour by your watch, and have fome
friends with the patient to divert him ;
you muft be alone in a room, to avoid any
noife, or any thing to diftraX the attention of your mind. In that pofition you
paint the perfon in your imagination ;
you reprefent in your idea the part which
you fuppofe affeXed, and you treat in the fame manner as if the perfon were before
you. That fympathy of body and mind which exifts between you and him will pro-
duce a crifis and fomnambulifm ;
that phaBnomenon is very interefting. You may
alfo from the fame principles treat a perfon in the fame room, without his or her
knowledge, by fixing your mind and your eyes upon the part affeXed, or upon
the heart, ftomach, &c. and produce crifes and fomnambulifm.
Dropsy. There are different forts ofthis difeafe, according to the parts which
are affeXed. I fliall treat of the manner of caring the afcite, which is, when there
is a colleXion of water in the belly, proceeding from obftruXions, living too low,
and
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 271
and fometimes from drinking fpirits or cold water when the body is hot. You treat
the patient in oppofition; you fix your hands upon the part, either at a diftance,
or by applying the hands on the belly ;
you try to produce a crifis, which is the
quickeft way. You may apply a magnetifed bell-glafs on the belly when the patient
is in bed, the fame on the legs if they are fwelled, and various acceffaries, accord-
ing to the operator’s fancy. Dropfy of the brain, of the breaft^ and of the legSj are
treated by extra6ling the fluid, and promoting circulation and perfpiration.
“ Of the Asthma. This difeafe of the lungs is very feldom cured when it pro-
ceeds from a bad formation of the breaft, or is hereditary. If it comes from ob-
ftru6l;ions, treat the lungs, and put the patient into crifes to promote circulation ;
but
if the afthma proceeds from another caufe, as violent paffions of mind, humorealor
nervous, and the patient fpits a great deal, treat the ftomach upwards to promote
expedoration. If the patient coughs much at night, give him a glafs of magnetifed
water going to bed, and another in the morning. Moderate exercife in a gentle
air is very ufeful.
“ Apoplexy. This fudden lofs of the fenfes may be cured by applying imme-
diately, and with proper care. The caufe is an effufion of the blood, or a collec-
tion of watery humours. There are two forts, a fanguine and a ferous apoplexy
;
it is generally towards the brain that the caufe lies, becaufe the blood does not re-
turn from the head. That being the cafe, you magnetife the patient either in bed
or up: if he is in bed, you flay at his feet ;
you magnetife the head downward ; you
may get at his right fide, and magnetife as before ;
you touch his head, one hand
behind and the other before, and bring your hands downwards ;
you mull raife
the head of the patient high. If it is a fanguine apoplexy, and you fee there is no
change, you may order a bleeding, or put the feet in warm flannel, Let the patient
have free air. You muft treat him four hours a- day.
“Night-Mare. This difagreeable difeafe puts the patient into the greateft
torture during his deep ;
he feels often a weight upon his ftomach, as a fiend, a, cat,
a dog, &c. He endeavours to cry out, and fancies hirnfelf going to be drowned^
or to be killed. It proceeds from a weak ftomach, nervous affeftions, &e. I at-
tended a patient who ufed to be blooded every year in May. During March and
April he was always fo ; but, as foon as he was bled, the pain was over. They
are a kind of fomnambules. You may treat the ftomach, by throwing a quantity
of fluid, in order to ftrengthen it; alfo treat the head downwards. Aglafs of
,
magnetifed water, going to bed, is very good.
“ Of Sensations, looked upon as a fixth fenfe. Thera are as many fenfations
as there are polTible differences between proportions. In all fenfations we muft ..
confider .
272 A KEY TO PHYSIC
confider three things ;
the caufe producing the impreffion, the nature and difpofitioii
of the organs receiving it, and the fenfations which have preceded it. It is by the
combination of thofe affinities that the organs of our fenfes may be magnified or in-
creafed to fuch a degree, as to become, for every objedl which thev prefent to us,
what telefcopes and microfcopes are to the fight; confequently our fenfations are the
refult of all the effedls which objefts make on our organs. Our fenfes can only draw
us more or lefs near to the knowledge of objects and their nature, by a conftant
ufe and a ferious application, in order to attain to their reality. We have a great
number of fmall organs proper to receive fenfations ; but the habit we are in of
making ufe of fome particular organs only, abforbs the reft. Blind people have
different fenfations from us ;
they will perceive a wall, or other body, before thev
touch it. There is no doubt but we are endowed with an internal fenfe, which is
in affinity with the univerfe, and is confidered as an extenfion of fight; it is by
thefe means one may comprehend the poffibility of finding the difeafe of another :
of forefights, predidions, and the phoenomena of fomnambules and fybils, &c.
“ It is poflible to be affeded in fuch a manner, as to have the idea of a body at
an immenfe diftance, in the fame manner as we fee the ftars, the impreffion of which
is tranfmitted to us in a right line, the fucceffion and continuity of a co-exifting mat-
ter between them and our organs, bounded by the nature of their form; why ftiould
it not be poflible, by the means of an inward organ, by which we are in contad with
the whole univerfe, for us to be affeded by beings, the fucceffive motion of which
is propagated to us in curve or oblique lines, in any diredion ? and why ftiould we
not be affeded by the connedion of beings which fucceed one another?
“ I was acquainted with Monfieur de Botinau, who had a place under government
in the ifland of St. Helena. During twenty years he made a particular ftudy of a
fenfe unknown to us: he could perceive a fleet or a Angle fliip two or three hundred
miles off;
laft war he defcribed M. de Suffrein’s fleet, the number of fliips, and
thofe which had paffed by and did not touch at the ifland. He could do more ; at
fea he could tell the diftance he was off land, as has been proved by repeated experi-
ments in the Channel. In confirmation of this, I have feen the certificates granted
him from the governor and principal people of the ifland, and the petition and
recommendation to the minifter, who granted him 1800 livres per annum.
“ The famous Bleton, called the fourcier, or fpring-finder, whenever he walked
upon ground where there was a vein of water, felt within himfelf a certain fenfa-
tion which gave him notice there was water. Another countryman ftiook where-
ever there was water ;
the elementary, eled;ric, or magnetic, fluid, paffing through
the .pores of the earth, gave him that fenfation.
1 “ Of
and the occult sciences. 2T3
Of Crises. The crifes are an effort of nature again ft the diforder, endea-
vouring to diffipate the obftacles that are in the circulation, and to reftore har-
mony or equilibrium in all the parts of the body. Few difeafes can be cured with-
out a crifis, particularly when it proceeds from obftrudtions, See. There are two
forts of crifes. The natural one, which is attributed to nature alone, gets rid of
what offends her by an increafe of movement, producing vomiting, motion, per-
fpiration, &c. Thefe are the moft falutary, as nature acts filently, without violence,
and expels the obftacles that impede circulation, by moving gently the molecules
which form thofe impediments, and go off by perfpiratipn. Sec. The forced one is
fometimes falutary in obftrudtions, or windy and bilious complaints. Thefe are pro-
duced when nature is infufficient to expel what offends her. The ufe of Animal
Eledlricity and Magnetifra puts in adtion the whole body, and, in conjunction w'ith
her, aCts efficacioufly on the patient, and he difeovers benefit and eafe, particularly
if it has produced evacuations, &c. There are various means of producing them,
according to the fubjeCt, and the caufe of his difeafe. Some fay there are fix degrees
of crifes; I fay there are as many as there are different conftitutions to treat. Some
will alfo call it the luminous crifis, from that new feCt called the Illuminati. All thefe
are imaginary. Suppofeyou have a patient on whom you wmuld wifh to produce a
gentle crifis; you muft put yourfelf firft in affinity; then put your hand behind the
head, and the other before, till the perfon is afleep. If the perfon is agitated, calm
him, by drawing the fluid downwards from the head ; if you treat the caufe by
touching, it will increafe the pain ;
if you put your thumb upon the frontal finus,
they will fall into a crifis. You may magnetife your watch, and to fhow what
o’clock it is; they will go in. You may magnetife a flower, and give them a fmelL*
they will fall in. Magnetife a harpfichord : as foon as you play on it, they will go
in. Put a perfon between you and the patient, and magnetife him ;
you will put
him in. To magnetife a pond, make the patient ftay on the other fide of it
;
you
muft ftand oppofite ;
make the patient hold a flick in his hand to touch the water
;
you muft touch alfo the water with your magnetifed conduClor; the perfon will go
into a crifis immediately. Have fomebody behind him, to prevent his falling into
the water : it is the beft conductor of animal fluid. To make a perfon read, be be-
hind him ;
you magnetife the lines as he reads ; he will go in. To make a perfon
ftay behind you oppofite the looking-glafs, magnetife with a condudor the perfon
in a looking-glafs, that you may fee him ;
the re-aClion of the fluid will produce a
crifis. Magnetife a tree in a walk ;
make the perfon walk ;
as foon as he conies near
the magnetifed tree, he will fall into a crifis. One may put a perfon in a crifis
from one room to another ; and, in faCt, an ingenious obferver may, by what 1 have
related, make a great many curious experiments, provided he has proper fubjeCls.
No. 18. 4 A » Of
274 A KEY TO PHYSTC
“Of Somnambulism. Somnambulifm is a ftate between fleeping and waking,
partaking of both; the patient is a fbmnambule when he can do the fame as if he-
were awake. Thefe natural fomnambules, who get up at night, and do many
wonderful things, are well demonftrated. They are difeafed, and may be cured by
treating. The magnetic fomnambules are thofe whom art has found out a mean
of abforbing or fufpending fomeof their external fenfes for a while, and the patient
eats and drinks, goes up and down, plays upon the harpfichord, and' does itiany
things which you defire him, provided he be willing. The firft I faw was at the
Marquis de Puyfegur’s, in the year 1784; and all thofe who had pretended to it in
this country before were irapoftors ; for all this we are indebted to Dr. Mefmer.
Whenever any perfon has a real fomnambule, which is very eafy, by care they
have a treafure. They are called by us malades mededns, or fick phylicians,
Thefe beings fee in the dark, and go through an external atmofphere, the fame
as a glow-worm ;
they have befides an internal atmofphere, which they make ufe
of to perceive objefts prefent or diftant, vifible or invifible. I have had feveral
who related to me what they could perceive. They differ in many refpe6ls ac-
cording to their conflitution. One muft not depend always upon what they fay,
on account of their differing fometimes. You may make them move in any di-
re6lion, by your will alone ; or, by moving your condu6lor any way upon the floor,
they will follow its dire6lions. You may make them play on any inftrument
they can play upon ; they will read, write, and work; all this they will do better
than if awake. Being deprived of their other faculties, thefe become ftronger.
No phyfician can tell the difeafe of a perfon better than a real fomnambule. They
feldom fail to tell unknown perfons their difeafes, and prefcribe for them. At a
future time, when the fcience is better eflablifhed, I fhall publifli a full account
of the theory of fomnambulifm.
“ Some will accufe me of having faid too much ; but thofe who know me per-
fonally will never accufe me of relating any thing which I cannot demonftrate
;
and thofe who repeat thefe marvellous narrations hurt themfelves and the fcience
in the eyes of really learned men. Thofe ftories, like tradition, which are handed
down from generation to generation, and become improbable, like antiquity, lofe
their former luilre. I would advife my pupils to try thofe experiments I have
fliovvn them firft, and try others afterward.
“ To make an Electric or Magnetical Apparatus. I fhall not give you a
full account of the apparatus of our fociety in Paris. It is almoft like a grove. Mine,
which I had in London and Dublin, is a large oak tub, eight feet in diameter, well
pitched in the infide, about an inch thick, infulated upon four glafs-feet bottles
of water well corked ;
you magnetife the bottles, and lay them down, the
7/ neck
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 275
neck of one in the bottom of the other all around, fo that the laft comes to the cen-
tre. You may fill up the fpace with broken bottles, or any vitrifiable matter, brim-
ftone, or refinous matter, minerals, &c. fill it up all but fix inches; put feme
loadftones and artificial magnets in difieront directions : then cover the whole to the
edge with fine dry riyer-fand, put the lid over ;
place in the middle a polilhed
iron bar about eight feet high, with fprigs to it, to attract the univerfal fluid w'hi.ch
concentres itfelf in the refervoir. At the far corner place an arbor vitae in a box,
and place under it a ftrong, magnet, the north pole upwards; the fouth pole is fixed
in a hole upon the cover, by that means you increafe the motion of the tree, and,
becoming, vegetalifed, it will grow without w^ater. You make holes all round,
about eighteen inches diftant; put iron. or brafs conductors behind, fo as to touch
the patient vtho comes next to it. ConneCl a chain of an eleClric machine ;
infulate
your patients, and make them hold hands ;
it will increafe the afiion in them.
You may treat them in that manner; you will the fooner put them into crifes. I
have had all my patients round my refervoir in a crifis at a time. I could not at-
tend them. You may have a tree in a box, upon infulated feet; have a frnall box
with vitrifiable matter, and fill it with water :
you may make ufe of a large bottle-
filled with water only, and conneCl a chain to it. All this apparatus may be made
differently, according to the idea. Some take every morning brimftone or lozenges
;
and have brimftone in their fleeves, and rub themfelves wdth different ingredients ;
but I never made ufe of any, and produced a great many effeCls.
“ To magnetife a tree, you muft fland facing the north; you muft have a con-
du6for which you have magnetifed ;
you muft then point it from the top of the
higheft branches to the roots ;
do the fame from the other branches : if the tree is
fo large that you cannot fee the branches on the other fide, change your pofition
from fouth to north, and do the fame ;
then approach the tree ; clap your hands
round it, and ftay in that pofition five minutes, your tree becomes magnetifed.
Any patient who has been in a crifis, or fomnambulifm, will diftinguilh it. Some
will go in a crifis as foon as they come near it ;
others, if they are in fomnambulifm,.
will difeover it among the reft.
“ You may magnetife a myrtle, or any other ftirub; it will appear luminous in
the dark. You may magnetife a flower, by putting your thumbs in the middle,
and eftablifhan equator; then drawing your thumbs to the extremities, you prefs
your thumb with the next finger, and you throw the fluid upon the flower ;, it will
appear luminous in the dark; by giving it to a perfon to fmell, who has been in a
crifis before, he will go into one again.
“To magnetife a conduCloror a cane, pot your hands in the middle of it ;
Hide
your hands to the extremities, your thumbs at the top, and rub the extremities with
them
276 A KEY TO PHYSIC
them ;
by thefe means you wiil impregnate it with an ele6lrical fluid, that feems
luminous in the dark, and as fulphurous as the eledlric rubbing.
To magnetife a fliilling, or a guinea, put your thumbs in the middle, and
draw them to the extremities, it will appear as a ball of fire. A watch is magne-
tifed in the fame manner, by drawing your two thumbs at the top, and your index
under it ;
eftablifli an equator, and draw your fingers to the two poles : by fhowdng
it to a perfon who has been already in a crifis, he will fall in one again. They can
tell you what o’clock it is in the dark ;
if afleep they can tell you the fame, by
fhow'ing a watch.
“ To magnetife a harpfichord, fix your hands fpread in the middle, and draw
them towards the extremities ;
then rub the end you touch the firings wdth one after
another, in the fame manner, and thus you wdll impregnate it with an eledlric fluid.
As foon as a perfon plays upon the harpfichord, make your patient touch it with his
hand or finger ;
he will fall in a crifis immediately.
“ To magnetife a room, or a bed, is the fame. Set it to the north, facing the
fouth ;
point your condu6lor up to the ceiling ;
bring it down towards you ;
point
it to the weft and eaft, and bring it alfo to your feet ;
the room will appear all lu~
minous, and the bed alfo.
“ A pond may be magnetifed in the fame manner, by pointing your condudlor
over the furface of the water, from the cardinal points ;
touch the water with it, and
make your patient do the fame ;
he will have a fliock in falling in, and it may be
of fervice to him. From thefe few experiments it is eafy to conceive, that any in-
animate body may be eledlrified or magnetifed by another animal body, juft as
eafily as by an eledlrifying machine, or by the force of magnets.”
ARGUMENTS to PROVE, that ANIMAL MAGNETISM is the CAUSE
of SYMPATHY in MAN and other ANIMALS, and in PLANTS, &c.
THAT conftant flux and reflux of the vital principles and corporeal humours in
man (without which both motion and life are flopped) produce thofe effe^ls of
fympathy and antipathy which become more natural and lefs miraculous ;
the at-
mofpherical particle to each individual receives from the general fluid the proper
attradlion and repulfion. In the divers croftings of thofe individual atmofpheres,
fome emanations are more attractive between two beings, and others more repulfive;
fo again, when one body poftefles more fluid than another, it will repel ;
and that
body which is lefs will make an effort to reftore itfelf into equilibrium or fym-
pathy with the other body. Robin Abraham Benhannes fays, iron or ferruginous
particles are every- where, not only in the mineral world, but in our blood and bones;
now,
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 277
now, as the magnet attra6ls ferruginous particles, every thing of courfe is fubfer-
vient to magnetifm by the power of attra<5lion or fympathy.
^
I could relate a variety of examples to prove that fympathetic aftedlion which
prevails with people of the fame family, views, fe6b, or any other caufe that binds
them harmonioufly together; but, as it is a fubjedt which every one muft have
experienced, I fliall not touch further on it.
The magnetic fluid often occafions fome contradlions in other parts of the body,
when a mufcle has been wounded, which produces different motions in the organs
of the fame body. Whether they have a fecret affinity or not is a queftion not yet
determined ;
however, I am inclined to think they have. Thefe motions have af-
tonifhed many phyficians who have refledted upon this art, particularly Barthe,
who has well explained them by a fubtile motion w'hich he calls c/taZ/Zuic?, and
which he might as w'ell have called animal eledlricity and magnetifm.
Of antipathy.
WE do not all refemble the Trojan ffiepherd, w’ho aw^arded the apple to the
faireft; it is not always the handfomeft woman that wins our affedtions; our inte-
rior emotions are involuntary feizures independent of the influence of beauty, and
are the forerunners of love. So again, when two atmofpheres are in equilibrium,
that is to fay, when thofe corpufcular emanations are in affinity wdth each other, it
produceth fympathy, or attradfion ;
but, when thofe atmofpheres are croffing each
other, it produceth antipathy, or repulfion.
The difcordance of tempers, religious difputations, politics, &c. have frequently
been the caufe of inveterate hatred ;
how can we otherwife account for that fudden
averfion we feel for certain objedls or perfons, if it be not in the difagreeable im-
preffions communicated to the nerves, and then to the brain, from the emiffion of
thofe perfons or objedts? This' can be called by no other name than antipathy.
By antipathy many people find out the difeafes of others ;
they feel within them-
felves, in the oppofite fide, the fame pain the other perfons have. If I put a dif-
eafed perfon in contadl with another perfon in fomnambulifm, they inftantly feel
the fame pain ;
only, however, during the time they are in contadl. It may be
called fympathy ; but, as they fuffer in fome proportion during that time, it is
properly antipathy. It is well known there are many people who entertain an
antipathy to different animals, &c.
EFFECTS of ANTIPATHY and SYMPATHY in BRUTE ANIMALS.
ANIMALS in general, like ourfelves, move at the afpedl of pleafure, and fly
from that of diftrefs ;
in fome refpedls they are fenfible beings that feem to enjoy a
No. 18. 4B will
278 A KEY TO PHYSIC
will adequate to determine their different motions, nay, fometimes to be poffeffed of
the fentiments, vices, and paffions, of mankind, and experience likewife inclination
and hatred, which feldom vary in their objefts ;
whence proceeds that conftant love
that fome animals fliow for certain fpecies, whilft they bear the ftrongeft antipathy
and averfion to others. They are differently affe6l:ed according to their different
fpecies by corpufcular emifllons, but are nearly the fame when they flow from the
fame fpecies. Hence the one conftantly becomes the obje6l ofthe other’s averfions.
Thus one animal only lives to deftroy and devour; and in his turn contributes, by
his own deftru6lion, to the prefervation of a ftronger animal. Thus nature is fup-
ported by thefe fucceffive deflru6tions ;
new combinations arife from the compofi-
tions operated in her bofom ;
like the phoenix, flie only dies to revive, and return
brighter out of her own allies. Without thinking (as the ancients did) that a ftring
made out of the bowels of a wolf and another from a llieep cannot agree, or, if two
drums made out of their fkins, the found proceeding from that of the w^olf-fkin
would deprive the other of all found, antipathy between certain fpecies is evidently
a means allotted them by inftinft to difcover their prey or avoid their enemy. Thus
the wolf purfues the lamb, the dove dreads the falcon, the wTen the eagle, the gold-
'finch the toad, the hen the fox, the water-fowl the ffork, the grafshopper the fwal-
low, the blackbird the hawk, the nightingale the butcher-bird, the frog the eel,
the ’fnail the partridge, the oyfier the crab, the tench the pike, the fly the fpider,
and the fpider the fcorpion. The lion diflikes the cock, the ape the tortoife, the
horfe the camel, the lizard the ferpent, the boar the fea-calf, the martin the vulture,
the owl the crow, the tunny the dolphin, the conger the lamprey, with an infinite
number of others too tedious to be mentioned. The fmell of lobfters drives bees
away ;
the owl deflroys the eggs of the crow, the ffork thofe of the bat ;
the weafel
thofe of the hen ;
the heron and the lark are continually at war, by deffroying each
other’s young. If the eagle devours the ferpent, the latter climbs up the rocks and
revenges itfelf by fucking its enemy’s eggs ;
the toad and the rattlefnake, under the
grafs, by darting through their pores the magnetic fluid, fafcinate their prey; the
weafel in vain endeavours to avoid them ;
the leaps from one place to another, and
her ffrength is at laft exhaufted to no purpofe; obliged to draw near the enemy,
the iffues a difmal cry, and, being violently attradcd towards the reptile’s mouth, pre-
cipitates herfelf into it, and thereffnds her grave. To revenge this vidtim, the field-
fpider fpins her web fufpended over the toad : her influence troubles and at laft lulls
him to fleep. In like manner the flag's breath attracts the ferpent, and occafions in
him a giddinefs. The viper, with fiery eyes and contracted mufcles, darts veno*-
'mous‘Corpufcles on the branch of the tree where the nightingale finds an afylum;
Toon after, the w'ood-finger lofes his voice, is thrown into convulfions, falls down,
1 and
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 279
^nd is devoured by the viper. It is owing to the efFeds of emiffion that the hound
finds out the game, and purfues it to its den, where it feeks for a refuge. It is by
tliis fame fenfation that the partridge ftops in the middle of a fallow ground, and
forgets file has the power of flying.
Animals are as fufceptible of fympathetical as of an antipathetical attachments :
according to feme naturalifts, the fox is fond of the ferpent’s company, and the duck
of that of the toad ;
the bear avoids treading on the ant, the nightingale loves the
peacock, the kite prote<51;s the cuckoo, partridges and pheafants doat on the flag,
and doves on teal. We are told that a lizard, elephant, and dolphin, are fond of
a man ;
but this is nothing to the attachment of a dog to its matter: he follows him
to all places ;
and, tliould he happen to lofe fight of him, he tlill finds out where he
palfed only by the emanation he has left in his way, (which efcapes more abundantly
-through the toes, as. being more porous;} and, if he meets him, by a thoufand tranf-
ports tetlifies his joy.
Of ATTRACTION and REPULSION, otherwife called SYMPATHY and
ANTIPATHY, in PLANTS.
PLANTS, like men, have their tranfpiration and emitfion produced by a pref-
fure of a magnetic fluid which penetrates them ; and they carry in all their fibres
that vivifying fluid, and have alfo their particular fpheres of attraftion and repuL
fion. Plence that inclination that fome vegetables feem to have to come nearer to
each other, to grow and die together ;
hence that hatred that has been obferved
amongft others, and the efforts feemingly made ufe of to repel each other.
The vine feems to improve under the elm, the olive-tree with the aloe-tree, the
plantain with the fig-Uee, the agaric with the cedrus, afparagus with penny-royal,
and the cocoa grows powerfully under the fhade of ebony ;
the refinous-tree is fa-
vourable to the femla, and the cotyledon and the fir-tree to the different fpecies of
aconitum and folanum. By a like fympathy the poppy adorns the harveft, the wa-
ter-lily likes the ranunculus, and rue likes the water-lily; the lilyfprings delightfully
by the rofe, near garlic, where it appears more fliining, and fmells more perfumed,
notwithftanding the fmell of the latter is fo offenfive ;
the rofe is unfavourable to
onions, bafilicum dries up near rice, and cabbages die away near the cyclamen and
origanum ;
the oak does not like the olive, the vines diflike laurel and hemlock,
and hemlock dies away near the vines. The latter brings to our recolledlion the
dodrine of old Robin Abraham Benhannes, who in the l4th century attributed
the colour of wine and its fermentation to the ferruginous particles of the grape,
and to their union by inagnetifm. The effluvia from the hands or any part of
man’s hody is the caufe why flowers or herbs droop when touched ; the fenfitive
plant
280 A KEY TO PHYSIC
plant is a ftriking inflance of the force of this obfei’vation. The mufcicapa, or
catch-fly, mimofa, and oxalis, the flower rnartima, annona, dandelion, pimpernel,
flower of ciftus, heiianthimum, epine vciicltc, and caftus opuntia, acquire a very
remarkable motion by irritability.
We could take notice of numberlefs others; in fadl there are none infenfible to
the emanation of furrounding bodies; all move in a reciprocal fphere of attradlion
and repulfion. The fun, whofe heat attracts the magnetic fluid, dilates or contradls
plants in general according to the ordinary courfe of nature, the granadille, (which
in fine weather fhows the time of the day,} the tragopogon, or goat’s beard, heliotro-
pus, the cameliorus, and chryfanthemum (or daify of the field), the tulip, the lily
of Perfia, and a few' more, fliow by their motion the courfe of the fun, whofe in-
fluence atlradfs in their difi'erent ramifications the principles that vivify them.
When the fun darts his ray, the enamelled flowers regtife and acaflia open their
leaves to receive the influence; but, if he withdraw’s from the horizon, you fee their
leaves clafp and their flowers decay, till the all-enlivening beam again vivifies them.
There is a kind of clover put in a6f ion, by the folar heat, according to the different
degrees of the efficient fluid. This clover will appear whitifli in the morning, of a
purple colour in the middle of the day, and towards the evening it looks yellow and
pale. It is the abundance of that fluid in fome plants which renders them fo apt to
infpire men and other animals with defire of love ;
and it is the want of it in others
that appeafes the. heat of blood, and flops the progrefs of rifing pallion.
CONSIDERATIONS on the INDISPOSITIONS and DISEASES of MAN.
MAN, with regard to his prefervation, ought to be confidered,
1. In a State of Sleeping.
2. In a State of Waking.
3. In a State of Health.
4. In a State of Indifpofition.
If we fuwey all nature, we find in men, animals, plants, &c. but tw’o principles,
matter and motion. The whole of the matter which confiitutes him may be either
increafed or flirniniflied. The diminution ought to be repaired from the general
rnafs by the means of aliment, as food, drink, and other flimuli.
Motion in like manner be either increafed or diminiflied. The diminution oc-
cafioned by motion, as walking or any other bodily exercife, is repaired by fleep.
Man fuftaining two kinds of Ioffes, it neceffarily foliow’s that there muft be two
kinds of reparation in the ftate offleep. Man acts like a machine whofe principles
of motion are applied inwardly, and independently of the organs of fenfe. The
fleeping
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 281
fleeping ftate of man is when the ufe and fundlions of a confiderable part of his in-
dividual faculties are fufpended for a while, during which the quantity of motion
foil while awake is repaired by the general currents in which he is placed. There
are two forts of currents wdth regard to man—gravity, and the magnetic current from
one pole to the other; that is to fay, from head to foot, man receives and colle61;s a
certain quantity of the uni verbal current as if in a refervoir ;
the overplus of motion
(or the overflowing of this refervoir) determines the ftate of waking. This exiftence
of man begins in a ftate of fleep ;
the degree of motion he receives in that ftate,
proportionate to the mafs, is employed in the formation and unfolding of his organs.
As boon as his formation is completed, he awakes, and makes efforts on his mother
powerful enough to bring him into the world. If his conftitution is debilitated,
his motion being too ftow owing to his weaknefs, he will prefent a wrong pofition,
and w'ill not come into the world without affiftanee, from not having fufficient
ftrength to turn himfelf the proper way.
Man is in a ftate of health, when all the parts of which be is compofed have
the power of exercifing the fun6fions they were defigned for with pleafure and eafe.
If there is perfe6t order in all the functions, it conftitutes a ftate of harmony or
equilibrium. Illnefs is the oppofite ftate, wherein harmony is difturbed, and is
either extended over the whole fyftem or confined to one part.
Health may be reprefented by a right line. Illnefs is a deviation from that right
line : that deviation is more or lefs ci)nfiderable, according to the ftrength of the
difeafe; the remedy adjufts the order or harmony which was difturbed; the quan-
tity of the univerfal motion that man receives in his origin becomes tonical by be-
ing modified in the womb, arid helps the unfolding of the vifcera,' and all the other
organical parts of his conftitution.
This power of motion is the principle of life; this principle maintains and recti-
fies the functions of the vifcera. Vifcera are the conftituent and organical parts,
which prepare, reCtify, and aftimulate, all humours, determine their motion, fecre-
tions, and excretions. The vital principle, being a part of the univerfal motion, and
obeying the common law^s of the univerfal fluid, is confequently fubjeCled to the
impreflions of the influences of celeftial, earthly, and particular, bodies with which
it is furrounded. That faculty or property of man, which renders him fnfceptible
of all thebe impreflions, is animal magnetifm or animal electricity.
Man, being conftantly in the univerfal and particular currents, is penetrated by
them ; the motion of the modified fluid by the different organizations of its confti-
tuent parts becomes tonical ; it follows in that ftate the continuity of the body to
the extreme parts. From thefe extremities of the body either flow out or pafs in
No. 18. 4 C currents
282 A KEY TO PHYSIC
currents the univerfal fluid, whea another body capable of receiving or returning
them is placed in an oppofite point.
1. There is a circulation formed between the currents pafling in and out. 2. Thefe
currents are ftraitened and almoft re-united ki the fame point ; and thefe two caufes
concur together to increafe fucceffively the celerity of motion.
Thefe points of emanation or introduction to or from the tonical current are
poles, bearing analogy to thofe we fee in loadftones or artificial magnets ;
confe-
quently there are fome currents coming or iffuing out of the poles which deftroy or
firengthen each other; their communications being the fame, it fufiices to determine
one for the oppofite to be formed at the fame time. Upon a fuppofed line between
two poles there is a centre or point of equilibrium, the aCiing of which is fuch that
no direction is predominant. Thefe currents may be propagated and communica-
ted at any diftance whatever, either by continuities, connection of bodies and minds,
as fympathy, or that of a fluid, fuch as air, water, found, See. It is a conftant law',
that in each variety of an intermediate body, the poles are either overturned or
changed.
All bodies whofe form ends in a point or angle ferve to receive the currents, and
become their conductors. We may confider the currents as openings or channels
to convey other currents. Currents can penetrate ail folid and liquid bodies, prefer-
ving always the direction they have received. Thefe currents may be communica-
ted and propagated by any means, whenever there exifts a continuity, either folid
or fluid, in the rays of light, and by a fucceflion of the vibrations of found. Thefe
currents may be reinforced, 1. by caufes of common motion, fuch as the inteftines,
and local motion, fouhd, noife, wind, &c. the eleClrical friCtion, and every other
body which is a loadftone, is already endowed with a determinate motion, by ani-
mate bodies, by trees, and all vegetables : 2. by their communication with hard
bodies in which they may happen to be concentered and alfembled, as in a refer-
voir, to be afterwards at pleafure diftributed in every direction : 3. by the multi-
plication of bodies to which they are communicated, that principle being not a
fubftance; by a modification its effeCt increafes like that of fire, in proportion to
its communication. If the current of animal eleCtricity and magnetifrn concurs in
its direction with the general magnetic current of the w'orld, the in?reafing of all
thefe currents is the general effeCt which refults from it. Thefe currents may again
be reflected by looking-glalfes, after the laws of light.
Of
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 383
Of INDISPOSITION and DISEASE.
IT has been obferved, that man’s life is a quantity of univerfal motion, which in
its original becomes tonical, applied to matter, deftined to form the organs and vif-
cera, and afterw'ards to maintain and reOiify their fundiions. Man’s life begins in
motion, and ends in reft. The entire abolition of tonical motion is death. As in
all nature motion is the fource of every combination, as well as reft is of matter,
fo, in man, the principle of life becomes the caufe of death.
Every unfolding and formation of an organical body depends on the various and
Pucceflive relations between motion and reft; their equality being determined, the
number of poffible relations betw^een the one and the other ought alfo to be detef-
'fnined. The diftance between two terms or given points may be confidered as re-
prefenting the duration of life ;
one of thefe terms ol* points is motion, the other
reft. The fucceffive progreflion of the various proportions of the one and the other
conftitutes the progrefs and revolution of life. Proceeding thus from motion to
reft, we arrive at the point of their equilibrium ;
after that point we begin by de-
grees to die.
That progreftion of divers modifications between motion and reft, may have an^
exa6t proportion, or that proportion may be difturbed. If man runs through that
progreflion w ithout the proportion being difturbed, he lives in a good ftate of
health, and arrives at his term without illnefs: on the contrary, as foon as the prp-
portions are troubled, difeafe begins. Illnefs is nothing elfe but a perturbation iti
the progreflion of motion and life, which may be confidered as exifling either in
folid or fluid bodies. If it exifts in folids, it difturbs the harmony of the properties
of organical bodies by diminifliing the one and increafing the other. If it exifts in
fluids, it difturbs their local and internal motion.
The aberration from motion in folids, by altering their properties, difturbs the
funftions of the vifcera and the various elaborations which ought to take place.
The aberration from the inteftine motions of humours produces their degeneration.
The aberration from local motions produces obftruftion or debility, fever or irri-
tation.
The flownefs or abolition of motion produces obftru6lion, or debility ; the acce-
leration of motion produces fever, or irritability. The perfe6lion of folids or vif-
cera confifts in the harmony of all their properties and funfitions ;
and the refult of
the fimHions of the vifcera is the quality of fluids with their inteftine and local
motion. To be able tore6lify the general harmony of the body, we muft reftify
the funftions of the vifcera ; becaufe, their functions being once re-eftablilhed, they
re^ify every thing that can be fo, and divide every thing that cannot be rectified.
That
284 A KEY TO PHYSIC
That effort of nature or vifcera upon the humour is called crifis, or paroxyfm ;
and no difeafe can be cured without a crifis. In all crifes, we diftinguifli three
ftates, the perturbation, digeftion, and evacuation. Difeafe being an aberration
from harmony, that aberration or predifpofition may be more or lefs confiderable,
and produce more or lefs fenfible effeds, which are calledji/mpfoms. If thofe effefts
are produced by the courfe of the difeafe, they ere called fyniptoiiiatic Jenfations ;
if on the contrary they are the efforts of nature againft the caufe of illnefs, they
are called critical fymptoms. It is of the greatefl moment to diftinguifli them well
in pra61ice, to prevent and flop the one, and favour the other.
It follows from what has been faid, that all caufes of difeafe difturb and alter
more or lefs the proportion between matter and motion, the proportion of the vifcera,
the proportion between fluids and folids ;
and confequently they produce by their
different applications a remiffion or perturbation more or lefs confiderable in the
properties of matter. To remedy the eiTe6ts of remiffion and their perturbation,
and to deftroy or flop them, the remiffion of' properties muft be provoked; that is
to fay, in animal bodies, the irritability or animal ele6tricity muft be increafed by
different ftimuli. There are two methods of doing this ; l.to lelfen the obftacles ;
2. to increafe the aO;ion of nature, by a continual, fliaded, foft, and harmonic, ap-
plication of magnetic currents.
A body being in harmony is hardly fenfible to the effe6l of animal eleftricity
and magnetifm, becaufe that the application of an uniform and general a6lion can-
not alter any thing in proportions which are both exa6land already confervant with
that harmony. If on the contrary a body is not in harmony, that is to fay, if it is
in that ftate wherein proportions are difturbed, the habit it is in to experience that
diffonance binders it from being more fenfible, and it becomes fo by the application
of animal electricity and magnetifm ;
becaufe that difpofition and diffonance are in-
creafed. On thefe principles it is eafy to conceive that fick perfons drawing near
their recovery become gradually infenfible to animal eleClricity and magnetifm;
that abfolute infenfibility to its power conftitutes the perfeCl cure.
It follows, from the fame principles, that the application of animal eleCtricity and
magnetifm muft often increafe the pain, as its aClion occafions the fymptomatic fen-
fations to diminifti or ceafe; and the efforts of nature againft the caufes of difeafe
being increafed, it is abfolutely neceffary for the critical fymptoms to increafe in
the fame proportion.
It is by the exaCt obfervation of their feveral effeCts that we are enabled perfectly
to difcern the fymptoms. The unfolding of the fymptoms is made in the contrary
order by which the difeafe was formed, and may be compared to a balk of twine
which winds off in the contrary order to which it was wound on.
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 285
Of HUMAN IMPREGNATION—FORMATION of the FOETUS—ORI-
GIN of DISEASES—and PRINCIPLES of LIFE and DEATH.
IT was not my intention to go into this Treatife fo much at large, in my prefent
work ;
but confidering that the fubje6l is of the higheft importance, and that the
Medical Part could not be made complete without it, I have refolved to introduce
it here, though I fhall be under the necelhty of extending my Plan to a few more
numbers. Thefe, I truft, will not be unacceptable ;
fince they will be accompa-
nied with a fet of very curious and valuable plates, defigned on purpofe to illuftrate
^his interefting fpeculation.
In contemplating the works of creation and the word of God, unfolded to us by
the light of Revelation and Scripture ; by analogy, reafon, medical experiments, and
anatomy, Vve are enabled to trace the human oeconomy farther in her retirement, and
deeper in her occult retreat, than fome medical men are willing to fuppofe. Impo-
veriflied by a fafhionable ftyle of living, and driven to the neceflity of multiplying
potions and fees, their obje6l is not to heal, but nourilh the feeds of human infir-
mity. The truth of this remark has been but too often experienced ;
and indeed
confejjed by fome, in thofe awful moments, when diffimulation would be vain. Far
be it from me to arraign the profeffional chara6ler in its general capacity ; it is
only the medical locufts that I with to eradicate ;
and I am perfuaded every good
man in the faculty would with heart and hand affifl: me in fo laudable a purfuit.
It was principally with this view, and to aflift private families in the moments of
extremity, that I was induced to offer thofe fimple modes of cure and felf-preferva-
tion, fo amply difpenfed in my edition ofCulpeper’s Englilli Phyfician. And my
prefent purpofe being to make that invaluable family-book ftill more complete, I
fhall here explain the nature of human generation, and the principles of animal life,
that I may from thence deduce the origin of hereditary difeafes, and point out with
more facility thofe which are accidental. And in this treatife I fhall endeavour to
furnifli my readers with fuch obvious dire6lions for efchewing the evil, and choojing the
good, as, if refolutely followed, wdll not fail to preferve health and long life, and
prove of no fmall benefit to future generations.
When God created Adam, he planted in him the feeds of that Divine Effence,
requifite to propagate the human life and foul. Theologifls may contradi^f me; yet
I will not fo much derogate from the wifdom and omnipotence of the Creator, as
to fuppofe he fhould watch the impregnation of every human female, and, by fo
many feparate and diftindl adls of his power, give life, fpirit, and foul, to the foetus.
The Creator of Man, viewing with unbounded forefight the purpofes before him,
No. 19. 4 D by
286 A KEY TO PHYSIC
by one a6l of his omnipotence blended in Adam all the faculties of the human and
celeftial nature; and without any doubt, when he was formed one, in God’s expirfs
image, he poffelfed the means of propagating from his own effence, bein<y» like
himfelf. It is here difficult to affociate the imperfe6l ideas of human reafon with
the mechanifm of Divine Wifdom ;
and yet our conception may in fome degree
unravel the myfteries of nature by caufes and fpeculations, whicli, in proportion as
they captivate our fenfes, and raife our admiration, excite in us a reverential awe of
futurity, and a grateful fenfibiiity of the goodnefs and mercy of him who gave us
being.
From the evidence of Scripture it is indifputably clear, that in the perfon of Adam
the male and female properties were originally combined; as indeed we now' find them
in many fpecies of the lower clafs of animals. In Genefis i. 27, we read, that God
created man inhis own image, i. e. of perfection; including or containing the prolific
or generating powers, which are diftinguifhed by the expreffion of male and female
;
and God hlejfed them, i. e. thefe male and female properties, and faid unto them,
Increafe and nmltiply, and replenijii the earth, i. e. with beings like Adam : for this
benediction, and this command, were antecedent to the formation of Eve, as every
one mutt know who reads the Scriptures.
In this plural capacity, therefore, Adam received the bleffing of God, when he
faid unto him, Befruitful and multiply, and replenijh the earth, and fubdue it ; and
have dominion over thefijh of the fea, and over thefowls of the air, 8^c. The fix days
creation were now completed ;
and on the feventh day God relied from all his
work; and, having formed Adam, and breathed into his noftrils the breath of life,,
he became a living foul. God alfo planted the garden of Eden, and put the man into
it, to till it and to drefs it ;
and God commanded the man, faying, Of every tree of
the garden thou mayeft freely eat ;
but of the tree of the knowledge of good and
evil, thou flxall not eat of it; for in the day thou eateft thereof, thou Jhalt furely
die. Gen. ii. 27.
Let it here be noted, that all thefe tranfaClions, injunctions, and commands,
had paifed &^or6 Eve was formed, or, in other words, before the male and female
effences were feparated, and made the effential parts of two diflinCt perfons. Adam
likewife, before the event took place, was appointed God’s viceroy over all earthly
things, both animate and inanimate; the very elements being made fubjeClto him ;
for he was formed more noble than the angels, and crowned with glory and honour; i. e.
having the peculiar advantageof multiplyinghis own race. He was, as to his extertial
form, moulded of the celeftial ajther; and therefore, previous to his fall, his body
emanated rays of brightnefs and fplendour, fimilar to thofe which our ideas furnifti
of Mofes and Elias when they converfed with God. His reafpning faculty, and liv-
ing
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 287
ing foul, were formed of the eternal elfence or tin6lure of the Divinity; being no-
thing lefs than what is termed the breath of God, that fpark of immortality which
generates foul and body, and is the diftinguiihing chara6leriftic between man and
beaft. For, although brute animals inherit the five fenfes, and polTefs an inftindt
to dire6t them, in the choice of food, and to impel the propagation of their fpecies ;
yet thefe are only fenfes formed from the out-birth, or four elements of nature ;
and
not from the elfence or tindlure of the Divinity, out of which the foul, the mental
intelledl, reafon, fenfe, and tinderftanding, are all formed, and transferred to
pofterity. For with the powers God has endued man, with the fame powers fiall he
multiply his race..
From the foregoing palfages we are w'arrantedto infer, that the original man w-as
polfelfed of his fpiritual foul, and rational intelle6l, for the purpofe of propagating
the fame to all future generations. By the force of this rational intelledl, or eter-
nal fpirit, unclouded by the deformity of finj he knew and perceived the nature and
property of every animated being.; and to exercife this intellect, God brought be-
fore him every created thing, to fee what he would call them ;
“ and whatfoever
Adam called them, tJiat was the name thereof” He knew and perceived the nature and
quality of all animals ;
and, according to their defignation and fubje6lion to the ex-
ternal elements, fo he affigned them thofe names which they have ever fince borne.
Adam, however, in his primeval ftate, was not himfelf under the influence of
celeftial or terreftrial elements ;
but, on the contrary, they were fubjedl to his con-
troul. He was immortal ;
they corruptible. They fprung out of time, and were
elementated ;
he fprung from the limbus of eternity ;
and into eternity the divine
offence, or fouls, propagated from him, muft indifputably return.
But man, thus created in honour and immortality, abideth not. The purpofe
of his creation was to fill the place of the rebel angels; and hence Lucifer became
his mortal foe. This fallen Spirit had entered the gate of Eden, and was preparing
to feduce Adam, when the Almighty conftituted the tell of his obedience ;
for hav-
ing endowed him with a free-wiU, an innate power of choojing good or evil, and of
multiplying the fame, it was but reafonable to exped from him an implicit obedi-
ence, and an angelic race. He that is alone eternal and omnipotent, could not but
forefee the fubfequent event; and it is his fupreme goodnefs to counterad evil, by
preventing its word confequences. Forefeeing that the prolific tindure, or eternal
elfence of fecundation, might be contaminated by the malignant fpirit of Lucifer
infufing itfelf into the mind of Adam; who then, inllead of multiplying an ange-
lic race, would generate devils ;
and that, were man to fall in his individual capacity,
there was no counterpart, no feminine principle, through the medium of which
7/ the
A KEY TO PHYSIC
ms
the Jerpent’s head could he bruifed, or a Saviour become incarnate ; —Therefore on a
further furvey, after the works of creation had been completed, animals named,
and man formed and compounded of the male and female tin6lures, God faid, Gen.
ii . 18 . It is not good that the manjhould he alone; I will make him an help meetfor him;
wherefore the rib, i. e. the feminine or conceptive effence, was taken out of Adam,
and concentrated or moulded into a new being called woman. The emiffion of this
feminine effence or tin6lure threw Adam into a deep deep ;
yet, when he awoke,
he knew that an effential principle had departed from him, and that the woman
washone of his hone, andflejh ofhisflejh, not having been created, hutformed out of
himfelf whereby he only retained the animating principle, or a6live power of gene-
ration ;
whilft the rudiments or feeds of future beings w'ere configned to the matrix of
the woman. Here then individual generation ceafed; and Adam, without the counter-
part of himfelf, had no longer the power to increafe and multiply. Thus the two
tin6lures, or divine effences, animating and compounding foul and body, were di-
vided; and by means only of a re-union or contadl of thofe tin6lures, could gene-
ration then, or now, be performed. It is on this ground that the male and female
affeflions are continually turned towards each other ;
and that the defire of love
and union fo ftrongly pervades every individual of the human race. Hence alfo the
Tempter’s reafon for beguiling Eve ;
and hence the feducing power of love, which
determined Adam to lhare in all the horrors of her crime, fo pathetically and affe6l-
ingly deferibed by Milton.
The fatal confequences of the fall, we moft fenfibly feel, and univerfally deplore.
The earth Ihook from her foundations. The order of nature was quite inverted.
The CEtherial and terreftrial elements, which before were fafiiioned in harmony, and
a6ted in unifon, were now difeordant, intemperate, and furious. Brute preyed up-
on brute, and bird invaded bird. The delicious fruits and flowers of Paradife
were exchanged for thorns and thiftles. The ferenity of a pellucid and fmiling fir-
mament, was convulfed by the thunders of an incenfed Deity, by forked lightnings,
by contending feafons, by devouring winds, and impetuous ftorms. While man,
ungrateful man, from the privilege of holding thefe elements in fubjedlion, became
fubje6led to them ;
and hence fubjed to all the perils and misfortunes of his fallen
nature.
Here, then, began the confli61: of the human paffions, as violent and ungovern-
able as the elements themfelves. Here the toil and labour of the man, who fhould
earn his bread by the fweat of his hrow, and the tears and travail of the woman, who
fhould conceive in pain andforrow, bad each their fource. Here likewife, the dark
catalogue of human infirmities, of difeafe and death, had its too early date; yet
to
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 289
to this sera, which gave birth to our manifold misfortunes, mud we look for that
benign fource of alleviation and cure, which the relenting hand of Providence has
gracioufly afforded to thofe who will feek for them ; for out oj the ground noth the
Lord caufed medicine to grow; and he that is wife will not defpife them; for wiihfuch
doth he heal men, and talceth away their pains. Eccl. xxxviii. 4, 7. ^
Since, by his fall, man became fubje6l to the elemehts, from them he receives
the conftitution of his body ;
but his reafoning intelleft, and fpiritual foul, are de-
rived from the pure elfence or tiu6lure of the Deity, originally infufed into the feed
of man. To the violence and impurity of the elements, we owe the diforders of the
body; to the temptations and allurements of the devil, wejuftly impute the difeafes
of the foul. Yet by due attention to our reafoning faculty, it is no hard taflc to pre-
ferve health, or prolong life, to the term of its natural diffolution; while, by the
powers of the mind, and the light of the gofpel, we may dill avoid the poifon of
fin, and become members of that eternal kingdom, which is the fure reward of the
good and virtuous.
The imperfeftions and difeafes of the body, therefore, beginning with Adam, '
are in confequence tranfmitted to his poderity; and may be divided into heriditary
and accidental. Hereditary complaints proceed from a certain 6efe& of the animal
powers, or imperfe6f date of the fanguiferous fydem, at the time of copulationi
The accidental confid of all fuch maladies as are communicated by the difcordant
or putrid date of the elements, not only during the time the child is encompaded in
the womb, but from its birth to the lated hour of its exidence. And it might here
be obferved, that the increafe or decreafe of both hereditary and accidental difeafes,
depends almod entirely on the purity or impurity of the blood. For, if pure, in both
male and female, at the time of impregnation, the foetus will be naturally drong and
healthful. So likewife, if after parturition, and during life, care be taken to keep
the blood in an uncontaminated and eladic date, we fhall not only avoid the common
effedls of exceffive cold, heat, and moidure; but likewife that direful train of
acute difeafes communicated by putridity and infe6tion ;
or, diould they by chance
attack us, the effect becomes dight and temporary. A circumdance this, which
furely ought to weigh perpetually on the minds of thofe, who know how to value the
bleffing of health, or who would wifh to live a long, an active, and a pleafant, life.
This is therefore a fpeculation of that high importance, that I fliall now fhow how
hereditary complaints are communicated in the a6lof copulation^—howincreafed and
fodered in the womb—how accidental difeafes grow up and follow,—and how both
thefe enemies to the health and happinefs of mankind may be prevented or overcome.
In regard to that union of the fexes to which we are indin6fively.impelled, or rather
in the union of thofe effences or tin6lures peculiar to the generative organs ofmale and
No. 19. 4 E female,
290 A KF.Y TO PHYSIC
female, in the confca61: of which the firft moments of human exigence commence,
the moft vvhimfical and abfurd theories have been fet up. No branch of pbyfiology
has been more expofed to cenfure and miftake. While the phsenomena of the hea-
vens, of the earth, and even of the human mind itfelf, are traced with a fteady hand,
and vvith all the dignity of philofophy, the funftions of the human body, in health as
well as uiider difeafe, though expounded with a profuhon of fantaftical erudition,
appear almoft in as much doubt and darknefs as in the days of Paracelfus.
Let us then proceed to review the mode by which generation is accomplifhed. I
have, in the former part of this work, already explained the fyftems of Buft'on and
of Leeuwenhoek, in their fpeculations on the animalcules found in the feed of man
and in thatof brute animals ;
I have alfo in the medical part of Culpeper’s Englilli
Phyfician, Ihown the mode by which generation is performed, fo far as relates to
the action itfelf, and to its grofs effe6l. I fliall now confider it in a new light, as it
concerns the propagation of foul and body, and of family-temper, likenefs, and dif-
eafe ;
but, as the female is fo materially concerned in the myfterious a6l of impreg-
nation, and in all its confequences, I fhall here take up the reafoning of a lateinge-^
nious anonymous author, whofe opinion exa6tly coincides with my own.
The extremity of the uterine fyftem, without the nymphae, feems not, except from
its aperture, and the lafcivious fufceptibility of its texture, materially requifite to ge-
neration. Immediately within the nymphce, the vagina^ or great canal of the uterus,
begins. Before coition has difturbed its proportions, it is generally about five or
fix inches long; and when thrown into a circular form, without violent diftention,
its diameter is about a fixth part of its length. But as, in coition, the vagina is the
immediate reeeptacle of the penis, it is capable of great diftention, and may be ren-
dered of very confiderable capacity. In general, however, after frequent contact,
this canal becomes much Ihorter, but more proportionably increafed in its diameter ;
yet, being contrived by its organization for the purpofe of exciting pleafure, it can
and does accommodate itfelf to whatever fize is necelfary clofely to embrace the
penis in the a6t of copulation.
At the upper extremity of this canal, the uterus or womb is feated. It is of a py
ramidal form, with its apex towards the vagina. Its greateft length, in virgins, is
not more than two or three inches ;
and its width is fcarcely one ;
its internal cavi-
ty muft therefore be very fmall. It is connected to the vagina or great canal by a
paffage fo fmall, that a bodkin or ftilet cannot be introduced without fome difficul-
ty. In the broad or upper extremity of the womb, the ovaria are feated. Their
fubftance is fpungy, and they contain an indefinite number of veficles of a dufkilh
femi-tranfparent quality, the involucra of which are diftin^I, and fimilar to the ge-
^ neral
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 291 '
neral fubflance of the ovaria. Thefe veficles are the om, or eggs, which contain
the rudiments of the fostus, and which muft abfolutely be inipregnated with the
male feed, before it can be poffible for generation to take place.
Now it has been, and is, the common opinion, that, when venereal embraces take
place, the whole genital fyftem of the male being thrown into a6lion by libidinous
fire and violent fri6lion,' by this exertion the femen is thrown with confiderable ve-
hemence from the penis, and is either forced through the mouth of the womb,
and attra6led by the ovaria; or, that it is received by the Fallopian tubes, and con-
veyed by them through a variety of convolutions, till by their fimbriae they are con-
ducted to the ovaria, in the manner I have already fully defcribed in the medical
part of Culpeper’s Englifh Phyfician ;
all which tedious and complicated procefs is
alleged to take place in the inflant of coition.
Others again fuppofe, that the internal orifice of the womb becomes open and
pervious during the exertion and enjoyment of copulation, and that the glands of
the penis abfolutely pafs into the cavity of the womb, and ejeCt the feed immedi-
ately upon the ovaria. To each of thefe theories there appear infuperable objections.
In refutation of the firft, we need only obferve, that the vagina, from its ftruCture>
and from its organization in the aCt of venery, is difpofed ftrongly, and in every
part, to embrace the penis ;
and, as the glands muft thereby be clofely furrounded,
although it reaches not in every perfon to the furtheft limits of the vagina ;
the
flight and momentary impetus of the femen will thus be very effectually refifted, if
not totally fubdued. If the penis be not of magnitude fufiicient to occupy the vagina
to its full extent, the unoccupied fpace muft be fomehow diftended ;
and, let this
vacuum be what it will, its refiftance muft be effectual ;
and, if it is not diftended,
the power or preffure which occafions its collapfe, w.ill over-balance the impetus of
the femen. But fuppofing the virile member in all cafes to be fo exaCtly propor-
tioned as to occupy the whole length of the uterine canal, which however we know
is not the cafe ;
yet from what principle fhall we afcertain that the feminal tube of
the penis, and the apex of the womb, fliall be made fo exaClly to correfpond as to
become continuous? The femen, in the event of coition, is doubtlefs thrown out
by the penis with fome force; though this force will always depend upon the vigour
of the male organs, and therefore muft vary from the loweft to the higheft degree
of vigour which thefe organs can be fufceptible of. But even allowing the glans
penis and apex of the womb to fall into exaCl contaCl upon due penetration ;
and
that the male feed is always ejeCted with confiderable force from the penis, and the
vigina to be no barrier to the progrefs of it
;
yet how is it to force its way into the
cavity of the womb ? The aperture which leads from the vagina or great canal into
the
292 A KEY TO PHYSIC
the womb, is in fa6l no aperture at all. During rnenftruation, indeed, it is per-
vious ; but even then it is only capable of admitting a very fmall probe; and this is
no argument that it is naturally, and at other times, pervious. How often too has
this aperture been entirely blocked up by preternatural obftrudtions, and conception
neverthelefs taken place? Tnftances of this have often occurred; and the precifion
and authority with which they are recorded by different pradlitioners, leave no room
to evade the argument. Hence this mode of impregnation appears not only highly
objedtionable, but utterly impoflible ;
having no correfpondence with the human
flrudlure, or wdth the economy of Nature.
After what has been faid, it may appear idle to profecute any farther refutation
of the progrefs of the male feed by the Fallopian tubes, or through the mouth of
the w'omb. But, a- authors of the greateft refpedlability have believed in its pro-
grefs through the tubes, and tell us they have even feen it there ;
it may not be im-
proper to enquire how far this is afcertainable. The Fallopian tubes, through
which the femen is faid to pafs, originate, by very minute perforations, through the
fundus of the womb ;
and, increafing rapidly in their diameters, their capacities,
when dilated, may be about the third part of an inch where they approach the ova-
ria. Here, again, they fuddenly contradl, leaving only a very fmall opening
;
while their main fubftance is ftill continued, and is expanded into that plaited or
jagged fringe called the fimbriae, which is contiguous to the ovaria.* I fliall now
afk by what law in Nature, by what effort of it, is the male femen to be condudled
through this conical and convoluted canal ? Can the femen now poffefs any adlive
force, to introduce itfelf through the rigid perforations of this organ, and to over-
come the collapfe of the tubes ? The ftimulating power of the femen muft foon be
loft in a veffel which it has not power to diftend ;
and we cannot fuppofe it capable
of acting in a diredlion completely oppofite to what is the acknowledged office of
the tubes. It muft be by irritability that the ovum is conveyed into the uterus from
the ovaria ;
and we know no veffels in any part of the body whofe adtion is double
and contrary. This fyftem therefore favours of great improbability. But we are
told, by fome, that they have adlually feen the male femen in its unaltered ft ate,
lodged in the Fallopian tubes. Thefe fagacious authors might as prudently have
affirmed, that they had feen fnow upon the canal in Hyde-park at Midfummer.
The^ did not know, or did not choofeto recolledt, becaufeit made againft pre-con-
ceived opinion, that the human feed, when fubjedfed to heat, efpecially to fuch a
moift and natural heat as thole parts conftantly afford, foon loofes its fpiffitude and
* See Medical Part of Culpeper, page 17, 89, 97, &c. where all the parts, both male and female,
?re anatomically defcribed.
7 tenacity,
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES, S93
tenacity, and becomes very fubtilly fluid, and ahnoft colourlefs. Eefides, it is uni-
veiTally acknowledged, that a confiderable part of the femen is almoft always, im-
mediately after coition, rejected by the female. When we attend to the many in-
flances of credulity and im|)ofition in the theories of generation, we need not marvel
at the aptitude and facility vvith which pretended difcoveries creep into notice, and
the folemnity with which they obtrude themfelves into fyftems.
All the foregoing arguments againft the poffibility of a pervious communication
between the vagina and the uterus, are alfo conclufive againft the fuggeftion, that
the penis, in the a6l of coition, penetrates into the cavity of the womb. Nor is the
affertion of thofe who contend that this orifice, by the turgidity of the parts during
coition, naturally opens and dilates itfelf to receive the male feed, marked with the
leaft degree of probability. How is this dilatation of the orifice to be effeaed? Though
the whole uterine fyftem, during the venereal aa, be rendered ftiff and turgid by
animal defire and influent blood, yet it is more probable that this turgidity would^
rather comprefs than dilate the orifice; and the ftruaure and texture of the womb
feem exceedingly unfavourable to fudden dilatation by any means whatever. In an
unimpregnated or virgin ftate, the womb is fo fmall that its fides coalefce or adhere
together, and it has no hollow appearance whatever, though, from the texture
and elafticity of its fabric, it may be thrown into a globular form, which will
conftitute a cavity. But in coition, w'ith all its occult and uncommon phenomena^
what charm have we left to overcome this coalefcence, and form this cavity, by
opening or feparating the membranous fides of the womb ? Will it here be faid that
the forcible ejedion of the male femen will effed this purpofe ; or that the ftiflFand
turgid ftate of the penis itfelf will force its way into the fabric fo remote and delicate?
Though females may entertain fanguine ideas of thefe things, we muft fuppofe the^
vigilant anatornift, toiling through the unalarming and chilly organs of the dead,
ought to furnifli a more rational hypothefis, whence to deduce the adive principle
and admirable procefs of human impregnation.
Authors have been always eager toeftablifli the certaiuty ofa confiderable afflux
of blood to the female organs, and confequent turgidity during the voluptuous com-
munication of the fexes; and this has been a'wonderful prop to many abfurd con-
jeftures. This afflux, and confequent: turgidity, they fuppofe originates, like the
ere6tion of the penis, from the ftrength of libidinous ideas, and.other locally-irrita-
ting caufes ; and is intended by. nature to induce a tenfionin the female organs, that
the progrefs of the femen may thereby be-facilitated. This tenfion, again^ they fup-
pofe induces fome kind of conftiiaipn, which is faid tQ fupport the aSion of the ^
different parts of the gqnital, fyftem, but particularly of the Fallopian iube& Thefe-
S54 A KEY TO PHYSIC
tubes, it is laid, are remarkably diftended, during coition, by the blood rufliing
into the numerous veffels which creep between their coats, by which means they are
eredled, and their fimbriated terminations applied to the ovaria; and it is gravely
added, that diffe6lions of gravid women, and the comparative anatomy of brutes,
corroborate the opinion. Were it not for the ferious refpedf with which this anato-
mical obfervation hath for a length of time been favoured, nobody furely would be
at the pains of deteding the abfurdity. Allowing that this turgidity, with all its
concomitant circumftances, really happens in the /Amg fubjed, how can it poffibly
exift in a carcafe flaccid with death, and, as is always the cafe in a human anato-
mifed body, where death mull have taken place fome confiderable time before?
But this turgidity, though it fometimes may happen, and yet in a degree very
limited to what is alleged, does not always happen; and, when it really does take
place, it feems rather to be the companion and promoter of libidinous gratification,
than a principal and elTential promoter of conception. To many women the em-
braces of the male are extremely, if not completely, indifferent; and to fome they
are abfolutely difagreeable ;
yet even thefe women are prolific. There is no difficulty
in fuggefting a very fuflicient and natural reafon why the parts of the female di-
redly fubjeded to the adion of the penis, during the venereal congrefs, fliould
become turgid with influent blood, and fomdimes be conftrided. Nature, though
ihe feems in general unfriendly to exceflive luft, fometimes permits it; and thefe
are the means fhe feems to have appointed for heightening it. Befides, it is proper
that the animal inftind, which prompts the reproduction of the fpecies, fhould not
be difappointed in ks gratification, however brutal thefe fenfations and ideas may
appear to the purified philofopher. Thefe means then, however they may contri-
bute to the mutual fenfibility of the fexes, in the voluptuous gratification of animal
pleafure, appear to have no real influence on the procefs ofgeneration, after the ve-
nereal congrefs has ceafed ; nay, we have reafon to believe that their adion or influ-
ence does not extend beyond the limits of the vagina, except in common with the
reft of the genital fyftem, even during that congrefs. If an afflux of blood to thefe
parts were always to be attended with thefe effeds, what violence muft the ovaria
be expofed to by reiterated coition, and by every return of the menftrual difcharge?
During the menftrual afflux, a very confiderable diftenfion muft furely take place
over the greateft part, if not the whole, of the genital fyftem; and, as this turgidity
is the principal reafon affigned for the adion of the tubes, by what means are the
fimbrias diverted from exercifing thofe fundions which turgidity, though from ano-
ther caufe, at another time fo fuccefsfully inftigates? Alfo, how happensit thatgrate-
ful copulation is not always produdive, and the contrary; that the fimbriae, in
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 295
«very venereal do not operate upon the ovaria, and thereby produce more foe-
tufes, or a wafte of the ova? and that the organs themfelves are not incapacitated, or
diminifhed m their energy, by fuch repeated exertions.^ We have every reafon then
to conclude, that the tenfion and conftridlion of the female organs, induced by the
afflux of blood during coition, if of confequence, are intended folely to promote
animal gratification ;
and, that they have no diredf influence on the adlual progrefs of
the femen through the above-defcribed communications to the ovaria.
Upon the whole, it is certainly no ways equivocal, that the femen cannot, in any
manner, be applied to the ovaria by means of the fimbriae ;
that it cannot afcend or
advance through the convolutions of the Fallopian tubes; that it cannot divaricate
and traverfe the compreffed uterus; and that it cannot even operate a paffage through
therigid bulwark of the cervix uteri. The probability of the progrefs of the aura
feminalis, through the fame paths, is deftroyed by the fame arguments; and the
whimfical opinions founded on the prefehce of animalcules in the femen, and on the
organic bodies furniflied by the femen of both fexes, and, uniting in the uterus, as
far as this alleged aperture is concerned, muft ftand or fall by the fame fate. It
may feem however ftrange, that a dodlrine fo ancient, and fo univerfally believed,
fliould be fo eafily overthrown ;
and it may furnifli, to the fpeculative reader, unfa-
vourable ideas of the prefent ftate of medical literature. He may indeed wonder,
that, while every fcience has become rational and refpedfable by the exertions of
their cultivators, medicine alone has been able to refill the diligence of a thoufand
years ;
although it has been wrefted from the hands of nurfes, and its profeffion be-
come dignified and lucrative, it can fcarcely be faid, at this day, to afford one un-
quellionable idea. In the volumes of phyfiology, compiled by the moll learned phy-
ficians, and drawn from the moll learned fources, will the unconcerned philofopher
find the dogmata of medicine confifient with Nature, or with commoa fenfe?
But fince the femen, in fome lliape or other, contains that animating principle
which is indifpenfably neceffary to generation ;
and fince the ovaria as indifputably
produced fomething from whence a living creature is to be evolved, it becomes de-
monllrably clear, that the influence of the male feed mull be powerfully incorpora-
ted with the female, and diredled to the ovaria, before this effedl can poflibly take
place. We have already feen how this cannot happen; let us now endeavour to
point out a rational medium by which it may be accomplillied. For this purpofe
we mull again return to the vagina, or canal of the uterus, as being the principal
organ, on the part of the female, which adlually contributes to propagation ;
and
w'ithout the full and complete ufe of which, impregnation cannot take place. It
therefore demands a very minute and attentive invelligation.
6 The
296 A KEY TO PHYSIC
The vagina is elaftic, and fomewhat membranous, compofed of mufcular fibres,
blood-veffels, nerves, and lymphatics. It commences from beneath, at the nym-
phae, and, rifing obliquely about five inches, is loft upon the uterus. Its capacity
is very different in different fubjedls, and in no very diftant periods of life in the
fame fubjedl. A very refpe61able anatomift finidies his defcription of it by faying,
it is menibro virilifecundum omnes dimenjiones accommoddbilis. Its inner membi ane,
though very uneven, is delicately fmooth, and, from its nervous texture, exquifite-
ly fenfible; the outer membrane is more fpongy and mufcular; and, the whole bo-
dy of the canal is very plentifully fupplied with blood-veffels, nerves, and lympha-
tics. We know little more of the lymphatics of thefe parts, than that they are more
numerous proportionally than in any other part of the body. Thofe which origi-
nate in the exterior parts of the female genital fyftem, traverfe the inguinal glands,
while the deep-feated ones take a much more diredt courfe to their place of union
with the la6leals; but of thefe we ftiall be more particular, when we adduce our ob-
fervations in favour of a very powerful abforption fubfifting in the vagina.
The entrance into the canal of the uterus from without, is guarded by the
nymphre, which form an eminence on each fide, fo peculiarly conftru6led and ar-
ranged, that we muft think lightly of the phyfiologift who could fuppofe them to be
only appendages in office to the urethra. Indeed, as Nature frequently operates
more than one end by a particular ftru6ture, w'e ffiall not pretend to limit the fe-
condary or inferior offices which the nymphae may promote; but w'e fee much rea-
fon to believe them created to affift powerfully in preventing the fpeedy efcape of the
male femen, and thereby exjiofing it longer to the a6lion of the abforbent fyftem.
A multitude of circumftances corroborate this belief; and it will not be impaired
by the allegation, that thefe ridges by no means conftitute a regular and complete
valve. Immediately within this barrier, a ftrudture, on the fame principles as thofe
of the nympha;, but more elegant and powerful, commences ;
and it is continued
over the furface of the vagina, gradually growing finer, till it is loft in fmoothnefs
near the upper extremity of the canal. This ftrudlure is the rugae of the vagina, fo
accurately drawn and defcribed by Haller and others; but degraded by fome ana-
tomifts, who mark it only as ufeful in exciting venereal enjoyment, or admitting
expanfion during coition and parturition. It is infmuating a mean and difgraceful
reflection on the important order and operations of Isiature to fuppofe, that thefe
rugae, which are not cafually arranged, but are regulated with as much precifion
and uniformity as we can trace in any other part of the genital fyftem ;
—I fay it is
nugatory and prefumptuous to affert, that this intricate, extenfive, and beautiful,
arrangement, has been fo minutely laboured for no other purpofe, but merely to
excite.
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 297
excite a greater titillation during the grofs and libidinous commerce of the fexes,
and a greater extenfion during parturition. This ftriclure may indeed promote
thefe fecondary purpofes; but it is intended for much nobler ends. Had thefe
rugoe been conftru6led merely for Ample contra6lion and dilatation, they would
have covered equally the whole furface of the vagina, which certainly does not hap-
pen ;
neither, if thefe had been their principal ufes, would they be fo foon and fo
eafily obliterated. We believe, then, that the rugae of the vagina are thus contrived
principally to protra6l the femen in that vifeus after the penis is withdrawn, and
thereby to favour dbforption ; efpecially as the qualities of the femen coincide won-
derfully with thefe intentions.
The femen, as it is fecreted from the blood in the tefticles, is very different from
that heterogeneous mixture which is expelled by the urethra in coition ;
though,
by the alteration, its fecundating quality is not improved. When it is conveyed
into the veficles, it is of a thin conllftence, of a pale yellowifh colour, and little in
quantity. In thefe veficles it is fomewhat infpiffated, and its colour heightened ;
and, after it is mixed with the liquor of the proftrate glands, it becomes Hill thicker,
and of a more whitifli colour. This confiftence which the femen acquires in its
progrefs from the tefticles, may produce other flight properties ; but the principal
intention of it feems to be, tocorrefpond more effedlually with the abforbent power
of the vagina ; for thus, by the increafed tenacity of the femen, the remora of its
fecundating part muft be protra6led in the vagina, while at the fame time the ab-
forbents are allowed more time to attack thofe active fubtile parts intended to be
carried into the circulating fyftem. We may add here, in order farther to confirm
the opinion concerning the ufe of the tenacity of the femen, that, when too little of
this mucilage is derived from the glands, or when it is of a depraved or thin qua-
lity, the whole mixture efcapes the machinery of the vagina too rapidly, and hence
coition becomes unprodu6tive. This is the feminal ferofity, as it is called, held
to be one of the few caufes of fterility in man. And we may add farther, that,
when the confent and power ofprocreation begins to fail on the part of the woman,
the crenulations of the vagina are then always vifibly decayed, whether affected by
the advances of age, or by imprudently-reiterated venery. But what are we to
think of a very refpedtable author, who gravely tells us, that the femen, by ftagna-
tion, and by the addition of the cream-like liquor of the proftrate glands, is better
fuited to the projecting effort of the urethra in the event of coition? Indeed, it is
not to be denied, that the increafe in quantity of the feminal mixture may enable
the proje6tile power of the urethra, with its aiding mufcles, to a6t with greater effi-
cacy ; but a boy would laugh in my face were I to tell him, that by adding to the
No. 19. 4 G weight
i
A KEY TO PHYSIC
S9S
weight and tenacity of water, his fquirt would throw it much farther. To a6l in con-
cert, then, with thefe unqueftionable qualities of the femen, the furface of the va-
gina, by means of its rugae, from their elevation and arrangement, muft have a very
confiderable effe6l in heightening the remora we have defcribed. No doubt, if Na-
ture had only had in view the prevention of the regrefs of the femen, we might have
met with a much Ampler mechanifm ; but, as to this part very different offices, and
all of them material, were allotted, it has been intricately qualified for them all. —
>
Thus, upon the whole, we fee an admirable difpofition in the femen, and in the fur-
face of the vagina, to facilitate and promote the a6lion of the abforbent veffels.
Though the ahforhent fyftem has not been traced with the fame minutenefs and
fuccefs which have followed the inveftigation of the fanguiferous fyftem, it is how-
ever known to be very general, and very powerful ;
and it is remarkably fo in the
cavity of the pelvis. How, otherwife, is that effulion which is conftantly going on,
in order to lubricate the whole genital fyftem in the female, and to prevent the coalef-
cence or concretion of its fides, refumed ? In thofe unfortunate females whofe
menfes have taken place, but in whom likewife the expulfion of them has been
prevented by the unruptured hymen, or by unnatural membranes blocking up the
paffage, much of the blood has always been reforbed; and in thofe whofe difeafe
has exifted long, and where the thick parts of the blood have begun to be broken
down, the colluvies has been reforbed, and a train of fymptoms induced, not to be
accounted for by the mere turgidity which this obftruftion occafioned. The infec-
tion and progrefs of fyphilis or confirmed lues, not only eftablifii the certainty of
a very rapid and powerful abforption in the vagina; but alfo exhibit the power and
influence of the irregularities of its furface. It is furely very evident, that the chief
application of the venereal virus, whether in gonorrhoea or fyphilis, but efpecially
in gonorrhoea, muft be near the farther extremity of the vagina, though there can
be no doubt but the ulcerated glans may often affe6l the exterior parts by its iritro-
du6lion; but, in a confirmed lues, the fundus of the vagina is rarely the feat ofulcer,
and it is never affected in gonorrhoea. Here, the furface of the vagina being moftly
fmootb, the poifon runs downwards, till falling upon the rugae, it is there inter-
cepted and retarded. Here then the poifon is multiplied, and leifurely applied to
the mouths of the lymphatics, through which it is carried into the blood ;
where,
affimulating together, it contaminates the whole mafs. Though the progrefs of the
fyphilitic poifon is not always thus regular, the variations do not affe6i the opinion.
When the lymphatics, and their glands, are vigorous and eafy permeable ;
when
the application of the venereal virus is within the nymphae ;
and, when it is fuf-
ficiently active, the firft fymptoms of difeafe arife from general contamination
;
and,
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. m
and, were this poifon always very mild, and taken up by the abforbents within the
nymph®, there is no doubt but the whole mafs would almofl always be difeafed,
without much chance of ulcer or preceding bubo. But there are many circum-
ftances which tend to retard the fpeedy abforption of the fyphilitic virus, even when
it is extremely a6live; and, among thefe, the inflammation which in general it muft
induce, is not perhaps the leaft confiderable ;
but thefe cannot affedf the abforption
of the feminal fluid of the male. The fyphilitic virus too, may, from the laxity and
lubricity of the vagina, (a circumftance very general in immodeft women,) not only
efcape abforption, but may be carried outwards, to exercife its energy on the exter-
nal parts. And it is from thefe reafons partly, that immodeft women are fo little
difpofed to conception, and that modeft women, when fubje6led to venereal infec-
tion, generally experience the more latent and violent fpecies of this difeafe. And,
as a greater furface of abforbents is expofed in the female to the contaminating in-
fluence of the difeafed male organs, and as the greateft part of the female genital
fyftem has a much readier intercoiirfe with the blood than through the inguinal
glands, we meet with this fpecies of fyphilis much oftener in women than in men.
The cure of fyphilis, too, by fpecific remedies introduced into the vagina, fully de-
monftrates the ftrength and activity of the lymphatics in this canal. Is there then
a ready and eftablilhed communication, for difeafe, and for its remedies, between
the vagina and the general circulating fyftem of the blood, while a mild fluid, yet
poflelfed of activity infinitely beyond that of any poifon, and created for the higheft
and beft of purpofes, is not permitted to traverfe the fame channels? Many other
corroborating circumftances, both in fadl and in analogy, might be adduced here,
were not thefe arguments in themfelves conclufive.
In a due ftate of health there is what may be called an inteftine motion in the
blood, occafioning and promoting its commixture, as well aa its feparation. In all
general difeafes, and even in many which are called local, this inteftine motion is
heightened, diminifhed, or deranged ;
and in the exanthematous or eruptive dif-
orders, it muft be remarkably fo. In fyphilis, though this difeafe is not diredly ex-
anthematous, there muft be exceffive difturbance, and certain depravation, prevailing
throughout the whole fyftem, before fuch complete deftrudlion can be brought upon
it. In thefe cafes of difeafe, where vehement infedlion, with all its confequences,
is overturning all before it, we have always found, that milder infe6lions could make
no impreffion. Hence the pra6litioner never helitates to ingraft the fmall-pox,
though the patient may have already received the difeafe, either by natural conta-
gion, or by prior inoculation : hence a milder difeafe is often removed by a feverer
®ne; hence flow confumption is always retarded, and often overcome, by fecunda-
tion ;
300 A KEY TO PHYSIC
tion ;
and hence fecundation itfelf, as the feebler ftimulus, is often prevented by
the anticipating difturbance of fyphilis, or of fimilar difeafes vehemently pre-occu-
pying the circulating fyftem. It is this anticipation, this prior poffeffion, Eind change
in the circulating blood, which reafonably and emphatically accounts for the want
of influence in the human femen upon the female after impregnation has fully taken
place, or while the mother is providing milk. And we might account for the pro-
du6lion of twins, triplets, and thofe rare inftances of more numerous progeny, from
the fame circumftances. One, two, or more, ova may indeed be fo ripe as to meet
completely the fecundating impulfe of the male femen at one time; and it is perhaps
more flrange that the different foetufes fliould be maturated andfixpelled about the
fame time, than if a greater period intervened between the expulfion of each ;
and
might not a fecond intercourfe of the fexes be fuccefsful, when the female circula-
ting mafs was not fully pre-occupied by the influence of the firfl? But the extent
and influence of prior infe6lion, or impregnation of the blood, has been better ob-
ferved in the venereal than in any other difeafe, or natural occurrence. Women,
whofe general fyftem is vitiated by the fyphilitic virus, are always incapable of con-
ception; or if the vitiation is not complete, but in a flight degree, an imperfe61: fecun-
dation may take place ;
but its produ6l determines the want of energy, and the
unqualified ftate of the mother from whence it drew its principal arrangement.
Thefe ideas are corroborated by the mode of cure adopted in the circumftances
we have been deferibing, and by the general effe6ts of it.
Thus we have endeavoured, and we hope with fuccefs, to eftablifli the truth of si
ftrong power of abforption in the genital fyftem of the female, originating in the
vagina; and a difpofition in the whole mafs of blood, to be affiedted according to
the properties of what may be mingled with it. And as, from the prefent ftate of
anatomical knowledge, we have no right to fufpedt any other mode than this of ab-
forption, by which the unreje6ied and finer parts of the femen can in any fliape, and
with any effe6l, be determined towards the ovaria, let us fee how this can be farther
afeertained by what we may fuppofe to be the effe6t of the abforbed femen, and-the
future appearances of impregnation.
In human creatures the evolution of all their parts is gradual, and the work of
time. From the moment in which the ovarian nucleus receives the vivifying im-
pulfe from the femen, till the period of puberty ;
from the dawn of its exiftence,i to
the completion of its figure and its powers; its alterations are fo many, and fo va-
ried, that our idea of the germ is not recognifable in that of the infant, and our idea
of the infant again is loft in that of the perfect animal. A gelatinous particle,
w'ithout neceflary form and texture, becomes a ftupendous fabric, fo intricate and
elaborate, though at the fame time perfe6l and complete, that human ingenuity
g and
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 501
and reafon have toiled almoft fruitlefsly for thoufands of years in inveftigating the
progrefs. It has indeed been averred by fome, that all the different organs of the
animal in its complete ftate are original and diftin6l in the embryo, and are only
unfolded and rendered more evident by its increafe. This furely is not the cafe.
The animal is certainly endowed with power of completing itfelf; and can, from
inorganized parts, produce an organized flru6lure. The parts are only evolved
and perfected as they become ufeful in the different flages ;
and the evolution of
many of them can be prevented without the deflruCtion of life, or exceffive pre-
judice to thofe already evolved. If the different organs, or rather principles, are
at firft perfect, why are thofe effeCts which depend upon them not perfeCt alfo?
Why is the ftate of infancy a ftate of idiotifm? why is the temper of youth capri-
cious and flexible? and why are the temper and paffions of the adult but barely
difcernible in the preceding flages ?
As we are of opinion then, that the different organs are matured only as they be-
come requifite and neceffary, confequently, we believe the evolution of the gene- ^
rative organs in both fexes muft be among the laft efforts of the increafe and com-
pletion of the body. This evolution could not have taken place earlier : if it had,
the mind muft have been affeCled by thofe impulfes which annourice the maturation
of thefe organs, by which we know the mind, body, and foul, are connected. In
the male, the foundation and powers of maturation, of that flrength, and of thofe
more rational qualities which belong to him, are laid to ripen with puberty : hence
communication with the female, before thefe are finally arranged and fecured;
proves inefficient, and entails upon hirii debility both of body and mind. The fame
thing holds, as far as the fame ends are concerned, with refpeCt to the female; and
we cannot fuppofe that Nature could be fo idly eccentric, as to punifli the female
with a difpofition or propenfity to procreate, before the body was capable of under-
going the various diforders and dangers of pregnancy and parturition. For the fame
reafons, none of the ordinary organs of fenfe are qualified to receive or commu-
nicate diftinCt impreffions, till the brain, the feat of the foul, as the heart is of life^
has acquired thofe properties which muft fit it for its arduous offices. It is only
when the different organs of fenfe have been completely evolved, and ail their parts
found and juft, that the power of the mind is effeCtuated and eftabliilied. This fa-
culty, though it feems efferitially different from Reafon, is no doubt the origin of
it ; for the extenfion of common fenfe, from memory, or rather from comparifon,
and what may be called the balance of the fenfes, conftitutes what is called Reafon
and Judgment. While the organs are incomplete, from infancy or from difeafe,
their communication with the underftanding is alfo incomplete. Thofe who have
been born blind, or whofe eyes have been deftroyed in infancy before they were
No. 20. 4 H become
303 A KEY TO PHYSIC
become ufeful, have none of thofe ideas which depend upon the eye ;
it is the
fame with the deaf, and in all cafes of ideas depending upon one fenfe ; and we
may add, the early caftrated have no comprehenfion of, or propenfity to, the gra-
tification of love. Do not thefe things fhow—and a thoufand other circumftances
might be adduced to ftrengthen the proof—that the mind acquires its powers only
as the parts of the body are unfolded, and confirmed ; that the body is perfedled
only as the mind is qualified to receive its impreffions; and that the parts of the
body are perfedted by one another ?
During infancy and youth, ftridlly, the ovaria are fimple inorganic malTes, par-
taking of no more life than is barely fufficient to fuftain them, and connedt them
with that energy and progrefs of conftitution which are afterwards to unfold all their
properties. At the period of puberty, thus denominated from the change which
takes place in the genital fyftem at this time of life, this progrefs and developement
of the ovaria is finiflied by Nature; and thofe bodies are generated and completed
within them, which will exifl; without impregnation by the male, but which this
impregnation alone can finally maturate and evolve. That thefe bodies are not ge-
nerated at an earlier date. Anatomy as well as Reafon, founded on the foregoing
arguments, allure us ;
and, that the ova of all the foetufes, which the female is af-
terwards to produce, are generated at that time, feems equally certain. Though
this change in the ovaria is the moft elfential, the whole genital fyftem alfo under-
goes a very material change. The fimple alterations of ftrudlure and dimenfionsin
the different parts of this fyftem, though they are neceffary and fubfervient to gene-
ration and parturition, yet they are not fo material, either in themfelves, or to our
purpofe, as to require a minute defcription. This, however, is not the cafe with
refpedl to the menfes. It is chiefly with a view to the nutrition of the foetus that
the extra-fanguification in the female is provided by Nature; which is determined
to the genital fyftem, in the fame manner as the other fluids are determined to other
outlets; but, as the continued drilling off of this extra blood would be exceedingly
inconvenient and difgufting. Nature has prepared, as it were, a ciftern for its re-
ception. What may be fufficient to bring on the haemorrhage, however, is only
accumulated ;
and the general redundancy, induced by the obftrudlion and accu-
mulation, fubfides gradually as the haemorrhage goes on. This is the manner of
menftruation in the unimpregnated female, and thefe are the reafons why it affumes
a periodical form. In the impregnated female again, the preparation of extra blood
ftill continues, but its confumption becomes very different. By the extenfion of the
uterus, and by the wafte occafioned by the nourifliment of the foetus and its involu-
cra, the furcharge or extra-preparation of blood is nearly balanced, or is taken up
as it is prepared ;
and hence the periodical efforts are almoft loft. In the firft months
of
303
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES.
of pregnancy, however, the uterine fyftem is not always able to confume the fur-
charge of blood, and thereby take off the periodical effort ;
and hence it is that the
lofs ofthe foetus happens moft generally in the early months, and at the ufual period
of the menfes, unlefs fome accident has fupervened. And it is nearly from the
fame reafons that mifcarriage is fo often to be apprehended in the latter months of
pregnancy, and that the foetus is afterwards expelled from the womb. When the
foetus has acquired all that bulk and flrength which the capacity and powers of the
uterus can confer, and when a change of circulation and mode of life becomes
neceffary to it, the uterus and foetus become plethoric ;
a general accumulation
fucceeds; and the periodical efforts of the menfes return. During the middle
months of pregnancy the foetus is in a ftate of rapid growth, and is capable of
confuming all the blood which the mother can furnifh ;
but there is neither room
nor wafle, in the latter months, for the blood which the mother is conftantly pour-
ing in ;
and hence arifes that plethora, both in mother and child, which is to infti-
gate the effort to parturition, which occafions the effufion after parturition, and
which is to fupply the extended circulation of the born child.
But, befides the utility of menftruation to the foetus^ there is a very evident con-
nedlion between it and impregnation. To fpeak of it as a proof of the ripened
qualifications of the female, is to fay nothing; its immediate action is elfential to
conception. In the human female, it is well known that coition is almofi; only fuc-
cefsful immediately after this evacuation has fubfided. Who will reconcile this
—
and it is no modern and groundlefs obfbrvation—to the confequence which has
been afcribed to turgidity and tenfion, which we have already adverted to? Almoft
every woman who has frequently undergone pregnancy, and who has attended
judicioufly to the phaenomena of that fituation, calculates from the laft ceffation
of the menfes. At this time, or raiher very foon after it, the plethoric tumult
of the general fyftem has completely fubfided, and the abforbed femen gets
quiet and unanticipated poffeflion of the circulating blood ;
and at the fame time
the gradually-returning plethora promotes its action, and perhaps its determination
to the ovaria. When the menfes are interrupted, or profufe and frequent, impreg-
nation feldom takes place ;
and it admits not of a doubt, that, when the determi-
nation of this blood is towards the mammae, in the form of milk, coition is unfuc-
cefsful ;
and, as foon as its determination to the urine fyftem is reftored, other
things being favourable, copulation fucceeds. We may add as a known fact,
that continuing to give fuck after the ufual period will occupy the plethora,
and prevent its determination, in the form of blood, to the uterine fyftem ;
and this practice has often been had recourfe to, in order to prevent con-
ception. Sometimes there is reafon to believe that conception has taken place
6 while
304 A KEY TO PHYSIC
while the pletfipric determination to thebreafts continued. I am rather difpofed to
believe, th^t in fuch cafes its return to the uterine fyftem had re-commenced ;
for
about the fame time the milk generally lofes its alimentary qualities, and gradually
dwindles away.
But we have faid enough to defcribe and fubftantiate thofe parts of the female
which puberty has prepared for generation. We lhall now conlider its effects on the
male. It need not be repeated, that the feminal fluid is an exceedingly penetrating
and adtive fluid. Its effedls, after it is generated, even upon the male, demon-
flrate its activity and influence, far beyond the precindls wherein we believe it to be
accumulated. After puberty, the fecretion of it, during even indifferent health,
is continually going on ;
and thofe colledtions of it in its refervoirs, A'hich are not
thrown out by venereal exercife, or by other means lefs decent, are reforbed and
mingled with the general mafs. What is actually reforbed about the period of pu-
berty, before the fyftem has been habituated to it, or faturated with it, produces very
curious and remarkable effects over the whole body. The flefh and fkin, from be-
ing tender, delicate, and irritable, become coarfe and firm; the body in general
lofes its fucculency ;
and a new exiftence feems to take place. The voice, a proof
of the tenfion and rigidity of the mufcular fibre, lofing its tendernefs and inequali-
ties, becomes ungratefully harfti ;
and the mind itfelf, adluated by the progrefs of
the body, and forgetting all its former inclinations and attachments, acquires dif-
tindlly new propenfities and paflions. Thefe changes are not entirely the effedl of
ordiparily-progreflive age and ftrength ;
neither are they promoted by intercourfe
with the world; for caftration will anticipate them, and premature venery, or even
gradual familiarity, and early onanifm, will diminifh them. Boys who have been
fqbjedled to caftration never acquire either that ftrength of body or capacity of
mind which dignifies the complete male ;
and the fame cruel and unnatural opera-
tion performed on brute animals, diminiflies their bodily ftrength, their courage,^
and the fiercenefs of their temper.
If fuch are the effedls of tlje feminal fluid when reforbed by the male, how pow-
erful muft it be when fuddenly mingled, and moft probably in greater quantity,
with the circulating fluids of the attracting female! Coition, or rather the abforp-
tion of the feminal fluid of the male by the female, even when not fuceeded by im-
pregnation, induces an alteration very general over the female fyftem. The local
influence of which may be inferred from the general change which it is capable of
inducing during complete health; from the relief which it effeCtuates in many fpe-
cies of difeafe ;
and from the general vivacity and cheerfulnefs dilFufed over the
w'hole animal frame. It would be prolix to go over every difeafe which will warrant
thefe, opinions ;
yet, in the eye of common obfervation, the fallow and inanimate
feraale,^
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 305
female, by coition, often becomes plump and robuft, and beautiful and a6live
;
while the widow, or married wmman deprived of commerce with her hufband,
gradually returns to the imperfedlions and peculiarities of fingle life; and that the
ancient virgin, all her life deprived of this animating effluvium, is generally confumed
with infirmity, ill-temper, or difeafe. It is well known, too, that the want of coi-
tion at the time of life when Nature feems to require it, induces many diforders in
females; and that the ufe of it removes thefe, and even other difeafes. Chlorofis,
or the whites, almofl always attack females immediately after puberty; and, even
when the violence of its fymptoms have not been difcerned till a later period, its
origin can always be traced back to that time. When the human fytlem is com-
pletely evolved, and all its parts have acquired their full growth, a balance is pro-
duced between the circulating and folid fyftems; though, from the ideas we have
fuggefted concerning the inenfes, this balance in the female cannot ftridlly be called
complete. It is only complete in her when in perfect health, and in an impregna-
ted ftate; at other times, the catamenia, as preponderating againft the powers of
the folid fyftem, in proportion to the degree of their period, difturb the equilibrium,
and thereby more or lefs induce a ftate inconfiftent wdth perfedi health. But, when
the propelling power of growth has ceafed before the folids, either from actual dif-
eafe, or want of uniformity in either period, or acceffion wdth refpedl to the progrefs
of the circulating fyftera, have acquired their proper vigour and tone ;
and when
the catamenia has affumed its deftination before it is accompanied by the general as
well as local energy which is requifite to expel it, an univerfal want of balance comes
on ;
the blood lofes its ftimulating influence on the vitiated folids, and thefe, in
their turn, a6l feebly on the diftempered blood. Accordingly, in the cure of this
difeafe, no matter whether adopted from particular theories or from experience,
medicines are diredted to reftore vigour to the folids, and confidence and flimulus
to the circulating mafs. Nature proceeds in the fame manner ;
and the beneficial
effeds of coition in the cure of this difeafe have been too material to efcape obferva-
tion. It may be alleged, that thefe effe^ls depend entirely upon local influence
;
and that even voluptuous gratification, by quieting the turbulence of paflion, is of
cbnfequence in the cure. We fliall not fay that thefe things are unavailing; for it
appears that the relief obtained is chiefly owing to the increafed intelline motion,
and confequent flimulus, communicated to the blood by the abforbed femen, where-
by the folids themfelves are ultimately reftored; and we are the more confirmed in
this opinion, becaufe all thefe fortunate effebts attend, whether coition be fucceeded
by impregnation or not. Hyflerics, and other difeafes, would furnifli us with fimi«
lar explanations and fimilar cures,
c No. 20. 4 I Let
306 A KEY TO PHYSIC
Let ns now advance a little nearer our obje6l. It is beyond a doubt, that, in what-
ever manner the femen a6ts upon the female, it does not a6l fuddenly, notwithftand-
ing the geneVal aflertions of many authors. However productive coition may be,
the fecundated produCt of the ovaria is not iinniediatelydifengaged. We dare not
avouch this faCt from obfervations made on the human fubjeCt, becaufe fuch obfer-
vations never have been attempted, nor ever can with the fmalleft probability of
fuccefs : but the diffeCtion of brutes, by the moft eminent anatomifts, with adireCt
view to the elucidation of this faCt, afcertains it as far as fuch evidence can be ad-
mitted. In the diffeClion of fmall animals by De Graff, he found no difcernible
alteration in the uterus during the firft forty hours after coition, but a gradual
change was perceivable in the ovaria; and what he fuppofed the ripened origin of
the future animal, at the end of that time, lofing its tranfparency, become opaque
and ruddy. After that time, the fimbrice were found clofely applied to the ovaria;
the cavities from whence the ova imd been exprelfed were difcernible; and about
the third day the ova were difcovered in the uterus. In large animals, and in thofe
whofe time of uterine geftation was longer, it was found that the progrefs w'hich we
have been defcribing was proportionably flower. The fame experiments have been
made by different anatomifls, and perhaps with very different views; and, though
they have not always been managed with the fame judgment and dexterity, yet all
of them more or lefs confirm the idea that there is a very confiderable lapfe of
time intervening between produclive copulation and theexpulfion of the ovum from
the ovaria. But, if this be the cafe with animals which foon arrive at puberty, and
which, like human creatures, copulate not perfeClly before puberty, —whofe lives
are fliort, and their progrefs in equal periods of time morefapid than thofe in man,
—by parity of reafon, it muff happen, thatin women the period betw^een impregnation
and the txpulfion of the fecundated produCt of the ovaria muff be confiderably
greater than what has been obferved to take place in thefe animals. If all this is
true—how are we to fuppofe Nature to be employed during this interval ? We be-
lieve it is during this period that the whole female confiitution is labouring under the
fecundating influence of the feminal fluid taken into the blood by the ahforbenis ;
while the ovaria are largely participating, and their product ripening, by means of
the general ftimulating procefs. And the fame procefs which maturates the ovum
lends to facilitate its exclufion. The ovaria, as well as their product, are at this
time enlarged, and other changes, fubjeft to the examination of our fenfes, indu-
ced. It is no proof againft the reality of this general alteration in the circumftances
of the circulating fyftem, and confequent revolution in the ovaria, that the whole is
accompliflied with but little vifible difturbance, either local or.univerfal. In other
% cafes
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES, 307
cafes of material alteration in the mafs of blood, equal quietnefs and obfcurity pre-
vail. In fcrophulous or fcorbutic taints ; in the inoculated finall-pox, or \vhen they
are produeed by contagion; the poifon filently and flowly diffufes itfelf throughout
the whole mafs, and a highly-morbid ftate is imperceptibly induced. Thus, an
a6live and infjnuating poifon intimately mixes itfelf with all the containing, per-
haps, as well as contained, parts, perverts their natures, and is ready to fall upon"
and deftroy the very powers of life, before one fymptorn of its adtion or of its influ-
ence h as been difeerned. It is the fame in a confirmed lues, and it is even more re-
markable in the hydrophobia derived from the bite of a mad dog ;
and the whole
round of contagious difeafes have the fame unalarming, yet certain, progrefs and
termination.
That the final influence of this elaborate procefs fliould be determined particu-
larly, and at all times, to the ovaria, is no Avay marvellous. To qualify the ovaria
for this, they are fupplied with a congeries of blood-velTels and nerves, at puberty
larger and more numerous than what is allotted to any other part of fimilar magni-
tude. Were the ovaria merely a receptacle for the ova, which the venereal orgafm
communicated by the nerves, or by the impulfion of the applied femen, was to la-
cerate; what ufe would there be for fo intricate and extenfive an arrangement of
blood-veffels and nerves ? But we may farther remark, that every difUndl prmtefs
in the human body, either during health ordifeafe, tends to one particular and dif-
tin^l purpofe. The kidneys do not fecrete bile, nor does the liver ftrain off the
ufelefs or hurtful parts of the blood which are deflined to pafs off by the ernulgents ;
neither do the fall vary and bronchial glands promifeuoufly pour out mucus or faliva;
the variolous virus does not produce a morbillous eruption, fyphilitie caries, or
fcrophulous ulcer; why then fliould the fecundated blood unconcernedly and pro-
mifeuoufly determine its energy to the fkin, the lymphatics, or the fubftance of the
bones? We know none of the operations in the human body, deflined for the or-
dinary purpofes of life and health, or for the removal of difeafe, but in a greater or
lefs degree involve the machinery of the whole fyflem. A Angle mouthful of food,
while it' is prepared, purified, and applied to its ultimate purpofes, is fubjedled to
the a6lion of all the known parts of the body, and without doubt to all thofe parts
the properties of which we are unacquainted wdth; a draught of cold water fpreads
its influence almofl inflantaneoufly from one extremity to the other ;
the flighteft
wound diflurbs even the remoteft parts, and is followed, not unfrequently, with
the moft unhappy effefts ;
an almoft invifible quantity of poifon fets the whole frame
in torture, and all the adlive powers of the body inflin6lively exert themfelves to
folicit its expulfion. —Can we diflinguifh thefe things, and admire them, and then
fuppofe
3Q§ A KEY TO EIIYSIC
fuppofe that the moil material operation of the, human body—the renovation of it-
fielf—is to be accomplihied in a corner, and with infinitely lefs formality and folem-
nity than a fpittle is caft upon the wind? The evident means are fufficiently degra-
ded ;
we need not exert our ingenuity to degrade them farther.
Jt is during this interval, between produdtive coition and the exclufion of the
ovum from the ovaria, that likenefs, hereditary difeafes, and the like, are commu-
nicated and acquired. Inftead of that influence which the imagination of the mo-
ther is fuppofed to polTefs over the form of the child, might we not fufpe6t, that the
leminal fluid of the male, co-operating, during this interval, with the influence of
the female upon the ovum, inftigated a likenefs, according to the influence of the
male and female tin6tures, in the united principles? It is during this period only
that the difeafes of the male can be communicated to the child; and, if we admit
not of this interval and general operation of the feminal fluid, we cannot fee how
they can be communicated, though thofe of the mother may be communicated then
or at a much later period, confidering how the child is nouriflied while it is in the
uterus and at the breaft. It may be urged againft this early and eflfedtual acquifi-
tion of likenefs, that the foetus does not acquire even the divifion of its largeft mem-
bers till long after its exclufion from the ovaria : but then we are confident, that,
as the foetus takes all its form and other properties from the adlive fubtilty of thefe
blended tinftures, we cannot fee any reafon why it fliould not poffefs this hereditary
faculty, in common with the reft. If likenefs depend upon the imagination of
the female, how happens it that the children of thofe whofe profligate manners ren-
der the father uncertain, and whofe aflfedlions ceafe rvith the inftant of libidinous
gratification, are as frequently diftinguifliable by their likenefs as thofe children
who have been born under none of thefe misfortunes ? If the features are not plan-
ted during this period, and if imagination be not idle or ufelefs, how was the fix-
fingered family, mentioned by Maupertuis, continued ? When a female of that fa-
mily married a man who had only the ufual number of fingers, the deformity of her
family became uncertain, or ceafed ;
and we muft fuppofe her imagination could
not have been inadlive or diminiftied, whether alarmed by the fear of continuing a
deformed race, or inftigated by the vanity of tranfmitting a remarkable peculia-
rity. Were imagination, in a pregnant woman, fo powerful as many have endea-
voured to reprefent it, the mother, profligate at heart, though not adtually wicked,
would always betray the apoftafy of her affeftions ;
and even a virtuous woman
might divulge that fhe had looked with as much eagernefs at a handfome ftranger
as file had looked at the aquiline nofe or other prominent featufe of her hufband.
But,
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 30<)
But, admitting that the feminal fluid of every male pofleffes fome kind of influence
peculiar to that male, and connected with his form, as well as his conftitution ; in
the fame or in fome fimilar manner it contains, notwithflanding the elahoratenefs
of its preparation, the ftamina of difeafes, fome of which often lie longer dormant
than even the features of individuals ;
that the ova are as peculiarly conftrudfed,
by the conftitution of the female, as any other parts which depend upon gradual
and folitary evolution and that thefe, operating upon each other by the interven-
tion of the general fyftem of the female, may, according to the power or prevalence
of either, affedl^the features and figure of the incipient animal, or rather the inorga-
nized mafs from which the features and figure of the animal are afterwards to be
evolved : admitting all thefe things, will national, or even more extenfive, fimilitude
corroborate the opinion ? '
While men continue in the fame climate, and even in the fame diftri6t, an uni-
form particularity of features and figure prevails among them, little affe6ted by all
thofe changes which improve or degrade the mind ;
but, when they migrate, or when
they are corrupted by the migration of others, this national diftindlion in time is loft,
though in the latter cafe it feems to be recoverable, unlefs the caufe of change be
continued.—The beautiful form and features of the ancient Greeks are at this day
difcernible in their defcendants, though they are debafed by intercourfe with ftran-
gers, and by forms of government ultimately affedling their conftitutions ;
the de-
fcendants of the few who by chance or defign have been obliged to fettle anriong the
ugly tribes in the extremities of the North, have, by their intercourfe with thefe
tribes, and by neceffarily accommodating themfelves to the fame modes of life, be-
fides other circumftances, become equally ugly; and the Jew himfelf, though he
abhors to mingle with a different nation, and though his mode of life is nearly the
fame in all climates, yet the fettlementof his anceftors in any one particular climate
for fome centuries will very fenfibly impair the chara6teriftic features of his people.
As equally in point, and lefs liable to queftion, we may mention the following fimi-
lar obfervations. A Scotchman, an Englifliman, a Frenchman, or a Dutchman,
may, even without their peculiarities of drefs, be almoft always diftinguiftied in
their very pictures ; the fturdy and generous Briton, notwithftanding the ftiortnefs
of the period, and the uninterrupted intercourfe, is traced with uncertainty in the
effeminate and cruel Virginian : and the Negroes in North America, whofe familes
have continued fince the firft importation of thefe unhappy creatures, and whofe
modes of living, exclufive of their flavery, are not materially changed, are much
lefs remarkable for the flat nofe, big lips, ugly legs, and long heels, than their ancef-
tors were, or than thofe who are diredlly imported from the fame original nation.
No. 20. 4 K From
310 A KEY TO PHYSIC
From thefe obfervations it feems allowable to infer, that, though climate, manners,
occupation, or imitation, cannot materially affect the form or features of the exift-
ing animal, yet thefe circumftances, becoming the lot of a feries of animals, may,
by inducing a change in the general mafs both of the male and female, be the remote
caufe of a change in their produ6l.
After what has been premifed, it feems rational to conclude, that the prolific fluid,
in coition, is neither carried through the Fallopian tubes, nor protruded through
the aperture of the. uterus, to the ovaria; but that it is taken up by the abforbent
veffels, and conveyed into the fanguiferous fyftem, where indeed every ablive prin-
ciple that can poffibly affe6l the human conftitution is alfo conveyed. That, after
circulating through the blood, it is by its natural impulfe, and the additional fli-
mulus acquired from the mother, forced through the correfponding veffels into the
ovaria; w'here, if it finds one or more of the ova in a ffate fit or ripe for impregna-
tion, conception takes place accordingly : and either one or more are impregnated,
as the maturated flate of the ovaria might happen to be. But if none of the ova or
eggs are in a flate fufficiently mature, or chance to be injured by any offending hu-
mours, by debility, or difeafe, in either of thefe cafes impregnation is fruflrated,jufl
the fame as happens to an addled egg, or to a damaged grain of corn thrown into
the earth.
On the other hand, if the male organ be deficient in vigour, or the femen be defec-
tive in quantity, confiflency, or adfive power, it then fails of flimulating the female
fluid, and is incapable of influencing impregnation. In order therefore that the a6l
of copulation fliould be produdlive, the male muft unqueflionably convey to the
female an elaborate tindlure, which poffeffes the effence of his whole fyftem, as
well mental as corporeal. In this a6l, the utmoft energy and powers of the
mind, of the body, and of the foul, are intimately connedled ;
and all contribute
their particular influence to the feed ;
of which every father muft be fenfible, when
he recollefts the adlion of the heart, the feat of life —of the brain, the feat of the
foul—and of the whole powers of the body, concentrated and impelled, as it were,
through the genital fyftem.—That this liquor comprehends theadlive principles, of
body andyjoul, will not I think be doubted in thofe who give the foregoing argu-
ments their proper weight; and that it conveys with it, more or lefs, the direCi image
of the parent, I take to be confirmed by the evidence of Scripture; where we are told
that one abfolute and unequivocal form was given to man, in the exprefs image
of the Deity. So that man, thus organized and commiffioned, was doubtlefs to
convey to future generations that divine image or fignature which God had gra-
cioufly ftamped upon him. For this purpofe the feed of man, or efficient principle
of
• //rfr/, //fl/iz/f /'///( t //f/z/Z/t
^///<• //U7// tA7’T/7,J
iy<ra//f/ , /'ffl//tZ^
JZtiZc I.
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 3 ] I
of generation, muft be mingled with the vegetative fluid of the female ;
and, being
attracted or taken up by the abforbent veffels from the uterine canal, paffes inJUiCdi-
ately into the circulating fyftem, where, affimilating with the peculiar temperature
of the mother, and acquiring new energy from the enlivening quality of the blood,
it is dire<5led through its natural channels to the ovaria, impregnating the germ by its
ablive quality, and conveying to it the peculiarities, it had derived from the conftitu-
*
tions, forms, tempers, and difpofitions, of the parents, with the feeds of whatever
difeafes, impurities, or taints, were lurking in their blood. For from the blood and
brain is the male feed primarily elaborated, and into the female mafs is thi thrown
and alfimilated, before impregnation can poflibly take place. In the courfe of fix
days, I conclude the united tinctures to have travelled through the whole circula-
ting fyftem —to have participated of the hereditary forms and peculiarities of the mo-
ther, and to have propelled the ovum or egg from its feat in the ovaria to a fufpend-
ed fituation in the womb, hanging by a minute thread, that afterwards becomes the
umbilical veffel, or aperture through which nourilhment and life is conveyed from
the mother to the child. The firft vilible ftate of conception, which refembles the
lucid appearance of a drop of water, tending to coagulation, is corre6lly fhown in
the firft figure of the annexed Plate, precifely in the ftate it was extra6led from
the uterus of a female who died on the fixth day after contadl with the male.
At the time the ovum, or rudiments of the embryo, defgends into the womb, it is
indeed very minute ;
but at the end of about thirty days, we may partly difcover the
firft lineaments of the foetus, though fmall and imperfedl, being then only about the
fize ofa houfe-fiy. Two little veficles appear in an almoft tranfparent jelly; the fmaller
of which is intended to become the head of the foetus, and the larger one is deftined
for the trunk; but neither the limbs nor extremities are yet to be feen ;
the umbilical
cord appears only as a minute thread, and the placenta, which only refembles a
cloud above, has no ramifications, or appearances of blood-veflels. This ftate of
the embryo is exprelfed in the fecond figure of the annexed Plate.
Towards the end of the fecond month, the foetus is upwards of an inch in length,
and the features of the face begin to be evolved. The nofe appears like a fmall pro-
minent line; and we are able to difcover another line under it, which is deftined for
the feparation of the lips. Two black points appear in the place of eyes, and two
minute holes mark the formation of the ears. At the fides of the trunk, both above
and below, we fee four minute protuberances, w'hich are the rudiments of the arms
and legs. The veins of the placenta are alfo now partly, vifible ;
as may be feen in
No. 3 of the Plate.
In
A KEY TO PHYSIC
In the third month the human form may be decidedly afcertained; all the parts
of the face can be diftinguidied ; the lhape of the body is clearly marked out; the
haunches and the abdomen «.re elevated, and the hands and feet are plainly to be
diftinguiflied. The upper extremities are obfenisd to increase fafterthan the lower
ones; and the reparation of the fingers may be perceived before that of the toes.
The veins of the placenta are now diftended, and are feen to communicate with the
umbilical tube. This ftate of geftation is faithfully delineated in No. 4 of the
annexed Engraving.
In the fourth month the foetus feems to be completed in all its parts, and is about
four inches in magnitude. The fingers and toes, which at firft coalefced, are now
feparated from each other, and the intellines appear, in all their windings and con-
volutions, like little threads. The veins of the placenta begin to be filled with
blood, and the umbilical cord is confiderably enlarged ; as may be feen in the fifth
figure of the fubjoined Plate.
In the fifth month, the bodily conformation being perfected in all its parts, and
a complete circulation of the blood induced, the mother quickens. The foetus now
affumes a more upright figure, which correfponds with the fhape of the uterus. Its
head is found more elevated, its lower extremities are more diftended, its knees are
draw'n upwards, with its arms refting upon them. It now meafures from fevento
eight inches in length, and is defcribed in the firft figure ofthe fecond fubjoined Plate.
Towards the end of the fixth month, the foetus begins to vary its pofition in the
womb, and will frequently be found to incline either to the right or to the left fide
of the mother. It will by this time be increafed to nine or ten inches; and its ufual
pofture, after quickening, may be feen in the fecond figure of the fecond annexedPlate.
In the feventh month the child acquires ftrength and folidity ;
as may be demon-
ftrated by thofe painful throws and twitchings which its mother feels from time to
time ;
and it is now increafed to eleven or twelve inches.
In the eighth month it generally meafures from fourteen to fixteen inches ;
and in
the ninth month, or towards the end of its full time, it is increafed from .eighteen
to twenty-two inches, or more ;
when the head, by becoming fpecifically heavier
than the other parts, is gradually impelled downwards, and, falling into the birth,
brings on what is termed the pains of parturition, or natural labour. For the exa6l
pofition of the child in the womb during thefe three laft months, as well as the
former, fee the correfponding figures in the two annexed Engravings, the whole of
which were corredtly drawn from real foetuffes, extracted from the wombs of dif-
ferent women.
2 The
/ fr.\' /'//t' f/J/'f'rt.r ./////r
'’i
A
n
i
t
313
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES.
The nourilhment of the foetus during all this time is derived from the placenta,
which is originally formed out of that part of the ovum which is next the fundus
uteri. The remaining part of the ovum is covered by a membrane called fpongy cho-
rion; within which is another called t7'ue chorion, which includes a third, termed
amnios. This contains a liquor, or watery fluid, in which the foetus floats till the
time of its birth. Before the child acquires a diftindl and regular form, it is called
embryo; but from the time all its parts become vifible, it takes and retains the name
oifoetus till its birth. During the progrefs of impregnation, the uterus fuffers con-
liderable changes; but, though it enlarges as the ovum increafes, yet, in regard to
its contents, it is never full; for, in early geftation, thefe are confined to the fun-
dus only: and, though the capacity of the womb increafes, yet it is not mechanically
flretcbed, for the thicknefs of its fides do not diminifli ;
there is a proportional in-
creafe of the quantity of fluids, and therefore pretty much the fame thicknefs re-
mains as before impregnation. The gravid uterus, or pregnant womb,- is of differ-
ent fizes in different women ;
and muff vary according to the bulk of the foetus and
involucra. The fituation will alfo vary according to the increafe of its contents,
and the -pofition of the body. For the firft two or three months the cavity of the
fundus is triangular, as before impregnation; but, as the uterus ftretches, it gra-
dually acquires a more rounded form. In general the uterus never rifes direfilly
upwards, but inclines a little obliquely, moff; commonly to the right fide; its po-
fition is never, however, fo oblique as to prove the foie caufe either of preventing or
retarding delivery ;
its increafe of bulk does not feem to arife merely from diften-
fion, but to depend on the fame caufe and increafe as the extenfion of the fkin in a
growing child. This is proved from fome late inftances of extra-uterine, foetufes,
where the uterus, though there were no contents, was nearly of the fame fize, from
the additional quantity of nouriffiment tranfmitted,,as if the ovum had been contain-
ed within its cavity. The internal furface, which is generally pretty fmooth, ex-
cept where the placenta adheres, is lined with a tender efflorefcence of the uterus,
which, after delivery,,, appears as if torn, and is thrown off with the cleanfings.
This is the membrana decidua of Dr. Hunter; which he defcribes as a lamella from
the inner furface of the uterus; though Signor Scarpa, with more probability, con-
fiders it as being compofed of an infpiffated coagulable lymph.
Though the uterus, from the moment of conception, is gradually diftended, by
which confiderable changes are occafioned, it is very difficult to judge of pregnancy
from appearances in the early months. For the firft three months the os tineas feels
fmooth and even, and its orifice as frnall as in the virgin ftate. When any difference
can be perceived about the fourth or fifth month, from the defeent of the fundus
No. 20. 4 L through
514 A KEY TO PHYSIC
through the pelvis, the tubercle or proje6ling part of the os tincae will feeui larger,
longer, and more expanded; but, after this period, it diortens, particularly at its
fore-parts and Tides, and its orifice or labia begin to feparate, fo as to have its coni-
cal appearance deftroyed. The cervix, which in the early months is nearly Ihut,
now begins to ftretch and to be diftended to the os tincae; but during the whole
term of utero-geftation, the mouth of the uterus is ftrongly cemented wdth a ropy
mucus, w'hich lines it and the cervix, and begins to be difcharged on the approach
of labour. In the laft week, when the cervix uteri is completely diftended, the ute-
rine orifice begins to form an elliptical tube, inftead of a fiflure, or to afl'ume the
appearance of a ring on a large globe; and often at this time, efpecially in pendu-
lous bellies, difappears entirely, fo as to be out of the reach of the finger in touch-
ing. Hence the os uteri is not in the direction of the axis of the womb, as has ge-
nerally been fuppofed.
About the fourth, or between the fourth and fifth, month, the fundus uteri begins
to rife above the pubes, or brim of the pelvis, and its cervix to be diftended nearly
one-third. In the fifth month the belly fwells like a ball, with the fkin tenfe, the
fundus about half way between the pubes and navel, and the neck one-half diftend-
ed. After the fixth month the greateft part of the cervix uteri dilates, fo as to make
aimoft one cavity with the fundus. In the feventh month the fundus advances as
far as the umbilicus. In the eighth it reaches mid-way between the navel and fcro-
biculus cordis ;
and in the ninth to the fcrobiculus itfelf, the neck then being entire-
ly diftended, which, with the os tineas, become the weakeft part of the uterus.
Thus at full time the uterus occupies all the umbilical and hypogaftric regions; its
fliape is aimoft pyriform, that is, more rounded above than below, and having a
ftrifture on that part which is furrounded by the brim of the pelvis. The appen-
dages of the uterus fuffer very little change during pregnancy, except the ligamenta
lata, which diminilh in breadth as the uterus enlarges, and at full time are aimoft
entirely obliterated.
The various difeafes incident to the uterine fyftem, and other morbid affedtions of
the abdominal vifeera, in weak and fickly females, will frequently excite the fymp-
toms, and alfume the appearance, of real pregnancy. Complaints arifing from a
fimple obftruftion are fometimes miftaken for thofe of breeding; when a tumor
about the region of the uterus is alfo formed, and gradually becomes more and
more bulky, the fymptoms it occafions are fo ftrongly marked, and the refemblance
to pregnancy fo very ftriking, that the ignorant patient is often deceived, and even
the experienced phyfician impofed on.
2 Scirrhous,
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 315
Scirrhous, polypous, or farcomatous, tumours,, in or about the uterus or pelvis;
dropfy or ventofity of the uterus or tubes; fteatoina or dropfy of the ovaria, and
ventral conception; are the common caufes of fuch fallacious appearances. In many
of thefe cafes the menfes difappear; naufea, retchings, and other fymptoms of breed-
ing, enfue; flatus in the bowels will be miftaken for the motion of the child ; and,
in the advanced ftages of the difeafe, the preflfure of the fwelling on the adja-
cent parts. Tumefaction and hardnefs of the breafts fuperyene, and fometimes a
vifcid or ferous fluid diftils from the nipple; circumflances that ftrongly confirm
the woman in her opinion, till time, or the dreadful confequences that often enfue,
at 1 aft convince her of her fatal miftake.
Other kinds of fpurious gravidity, lefs hazardous in their nature than any of the
preceding, are commonly kno^vn by the names oifalfe conceptions and moles
:
the for-
mer of thefe is nothing more than the diflblution of the fostus in the early months; the
placenta is afterwards retained in the womb, and, from the addition of coagula, or
in confequence of difeafe, is excluded in an indurate or enlarged ftate ;
when it re- -
mains longer, and comes off in the form of a flefliy or fcirrhous-like mafs, without
having any cavity in the centre, it is diftinguiftied by theliame of mole. Mere coa-
gula of blood, retained in the uterus after delivery, or after immoderate floodings
at any period of life, and fqueezed, by the preffure of the uterus, into a fibrous or
compaCl form, conftitute another fpecies of mole, that more frequently occurs than
any of the former. Thefe, though they may affume the appearances of gravidity,
are generally, however, expelled fpontaneoufly, and are feldom followed with dan-
gerous confequences. But, w'hen two or more of the ova defcend into the uterus,
attach themfelves fo near one another as to adhere in whole or in part, fo as to form
only one body, with membranes and water in common, this body will form a confu-
fed irregular mafs, which is called a monjier ; and thus a monfter may be either de-
fective in its organic parts, or be fupplied with a fupernumerary fet of parts derived
from another ovum. This proceeds from a defeCt or accident in nature, which it is
entirely beyond the power of medicine to reCtify or prevent.
It would feem, however, from a due contemplation of the foregoing faCts, from
the frame and ftruCture of females, and from the ultimate end and purpofe of their
conformation, thatalmoft every malady refulting from a ftate of pregnancy, except
the laft-mentioned, may be in a great meafure prevented or removed. The natural
temperature of women differs in a very confiderable degree from that of men, inaf-
much as their blood and Juices are determined to an oppofite and diftinCl purpofe ;
and hence it is that obftruCtions of the menfes, their excefs, or privation of the of-
fice intended them, conftitute thofe peculiar maladies which w^e term Difeafes of Wo-
men.
316 - A KEY TO PHYSIC
men. . The natural temperature of the male, is hot and dry; that of the female, cold
and moi/t. The action of the procreative tin6ture of man is solar, i, e. of the heat-
ing and quickening faculty; that of the woman is lunar, i. e. of a cool and vege-
tative quality- As the fun heats, and gives prolilic energy to the fruits of the earth,
fo man fecundates and gives life to the prolific tin<5lure of the woman. Thus the
male, as the microcofrn, or epitome of the celeftial fyftem, poffelfes an inherent fi-
militude with the fun, which vivifies and quickens; and thus the female, polfeffing
an inherent fimilitude with the moon, vegetates and brings forth the fruit of her
womb, and not only feels the influence and fympathy of that luminary in her month-
ly difcharges, but in all the travail and vicifTitudes of pregnancy. To the fame
fource likewife we trace the caufe, and decide the quelHon, Whether the fruit of
the womb be male or female? for, if the male feed be predominant, heat will abound,
and the male foetus will be generated ;
but, if the cooling moifture of the w'oman
overcomes the rnafculine heat in the male feed, a female is then produced. The
old and exploded notion of this caufe depending on the child’s falling to the right
or left fide of the mother, is too abfurd to weigh a moment on the mind of any
reafonable enquirer.
We difcover likewife that the mule, being conflituted of the folar temperature,
is naturally fubje6ted to thofe infirmities of body and mind which refult from the
elements of fire and air; while thofe of the female are of lunar tendency, arifing
from the elements of rvater and earth. Of thefe four elements our grofs or material
part is formed, and by their due and proper commixture in the conftitution, or
circulating mafs, are life and health eftabliflied ;
whilft, on the contrary, by their
difcordant, defective, or predominant, power, difeafe and death are produced. Now
the male abounding in heat, and the female in moifture, is the reafon why many
diforders incident to man are alleviated by conta6l with the wmman, as thofe of
the woman are by contaft with the man. In the grand fcale of Nature, wm find the
meridian heat and fcorching rays of the fun are qualified and corre6ted by the cool-
ing moifture and mild influence of the midnight moon ;
but, when either of thefe
are obftru6led in their effedf, by the intervention of accidental caufes, by ftorms,
by tempefts, or unfeafonable blafts, we then endeavour to reprefs by art the evil
confequences that are likely to enfue. Juft fo in the human economy, the grand
purpofe and defign of medicine is to corre6land modify the difcordant elements in
the conftitution, and give that vigour and tone to the vital powers, which conftitute
the genuine principles of health and life.
From what has been fuggefted we might fafely infer, that the conftitution and tem-
perature of the female require a medicine of an oppofite aftion and tendency to
that
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 517
that adapted to the male, and which ought to be compounded of elements conge-
nial to the intentions of Nature, calculated to purge the uterus, to purify the femi-
nal fluid, and give ftimulus to 'the catamenia; which, if not put in motion by the
fundlions of nature, becomes dull and ftagnant, and vitiates the whole circulating
mafs'; whence thofe diforders, peculiarly incident to the moft amiable, as being the
moft virtuous, of women, are confeffedly derived; and for the cure and prevention
of which, a peculiar and diftindt remedy has long been wanting.
Thefe, and other confiderations, influenced by the known power of fecond
caufes, and their faculty of adting upon the mechanifm of the human frame, induced
me to attempt the chemical preparation of two fiibtile Tindtures, conftituted of a
co-mixture of the pureft elements of which our blood is compofed, and adapted to
the particular temperature and conftitutions of the oppofite fexes. That intended
for the ufe of Man I call the Solar Tinct¥RE, as being congenial to the femi-
nal funftions and vital principles of his conftitution. That adapted to Woman I
call the Lunar Tincture, as being calculated to adirupon the menftrual’and ve-
getative fluidsj and as being compounded of thofe elements which make up the
frame and temperature of her body. The invention of thefe Tindlures hath been
the refult of a long and laborious application to the ftudy of unveiled Nature—of
the properties of fire, air, earth, and water, in the propagation of animal and ve-
getable life, and in the compofition of medicine; in which, though thefe elements'
form the Pabulum of the univerfe, yet the art of collecting, uniting, and affimi-
lating them with the vital fluids, feems to be unknown among modern chemifls,
and has efcaped the obfervation of medical fcience. The fixidity of thefe Tinc-
tures at once eftabliflies their power and efficacy beyond all others; for they cam
never be affedled by change of weather or climate, nor by heat or cold; nor wilL
they fuffer any diminution of their ftrength or virtue by remaining open, or un-
corked; a circumftance which cannot be affirmed of any other fluid at prefent-
known, throughout the world.
I fhall now proceed to fliow the addon of the Lunar Tindlure on Female confti-
tulions ;
and as this medicine is only intended to remedy fuch complaints as parti-
cularly relate to pregnancy, and the menftrual difcharge, I fliall omit to notice any
other maladies, until I come to treat of the Solar Tindlure; w'hich, though effen-
tially diredled to give tune and vigour to the conftitution of the male, is neverthelefs
equally efficacioua to the female in removing all diforders of the blood and lymph, ,
that are alike common to valetudinarians of both fexes. No complaint in the female
habit, therefore, comes under our prefent enquiry, till at or near the age of puberty.
Until this important period of the fex arrives, the Rules heretofore laid down in
the Medical Part of my new edition of Culpeper’s Family Phyfician, for the ma-
No. 21, 4 M nagementt
318 A KEY TO PHYSIC
nagement and future health of young ladies, deferve a very clofe and ferious atten“
tion. The evident diftin6lion between the male and female in their Urufture and
defign, in their bodily ftrength and vigour, and in the procreative fluids, demands
the utmoft attention from themfelves, and the tendereft care from the phyfician.
Nor can we too often or too earneftly caution parents and guardians againft the
evils of that abfurd though fafliionable ftyle of bringing up young ladies, by confin-
ing them almoft entirely to their apartments, keeping them on poor low diet, and
ufing artificial means to make them fpare and delicate, w'hich contributes more to
their prejudice than all the incidental difeafes to which they are otherwife fubje6t.
Thefe refinements in female education, befides deflroying their ruddy complexion,
(which is often the defign of it,
)
relaxes their folids, impoverifhes their blood,
weakens their minds, and diforders all the functions of their body, whereby they
are often rendered incapable of conception, and denied the felicity of becoming
mothers. On the contrary, it ought to be the ftudy, as it certainly is the duty, of
all that have girls under their care, to indulge them in every innocent diverfion, and
in every a6tive exercife, that can give freedom to the limbs, or agility to the body;
all of which have a natural tendency to exhilarate their fpirits, to promote digef-
tion, to flimulate their blood and juices, and, at the proper age, to bring on a free
and eafy difcharge of the menflrual flux.
Though it is univerfally admitted, that this flux is abfolutely.neceflary to nourifh
and fupport the foetus, and that without it human generation cannot be carried on;
and that it is confequently and obvioufly peculiar to the female uterine fyflem; yet
is it curious to obferve the various abfurd and con tradidlory opinions fome phyfi-
cians have laboured to eftablifli, merely, one would fuppofe, to bewilder the under-
ftanding, and fubjeft delicate females flill more to that erroneous or mifguided
treatment, in which their health, their life, and every earthly bleffing, are too
frequently involved.
Dr. Bohn, and Dr. Freind, infift that this flux is nothing more than a plenitude
of the common mafs of blood, which nature throws off only for relief againfl the
too abundant quantity. Dr. Freind fuppofes, that this plenitude arifes from a coa-
cervation in the blood-veflels of a fuperfluity of aliment, which, bethinks, remains
over and above what is expended by the ordinary ways; and that women have this
plethora, and not men, becaufe their bodies are more humid, and their velTels, ef-
pecially the extremities of them, more tender, and their manner of living generally
more inaftive than that of men; and that thefe things, concurring, are the occafion
that women do not perfpire fufficiently to carry off the fuperfluous alimentary
parts, till they are accumulated in fuch quantities as to diflend the veffels, and
force their way through thecapillary arteries of the uterus. It is fuppofedto hap-
pen
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. S19
pen to women more than to the females of other fpecies, which have the fame
parts, becaufe of the ere6l pofture of the former, and the vagina and other canals
being perpendicular to the horizon; fo that the prelTure of the blood is directed to-
wards their orifices ; whereas in brutes they are parallel to the horizon, and the
preffure is wholly on the fides of thofe veffels. The difcharge, he thinks, happens
in this part rather than in any other, as being more favoured by the ftru(5ture of
the veffels; the arteries being very numerous, and the veins finuous and winding,
and therefore more apt to retard the impetus of the blood; and confequently, in a
plethoric cafe, to occafion the rupture of the extremities of the veffels, which may
laft, till, by a fufficient difcharge, the veffels are eafed of their overload. To this
he adds the confideration of the foft pulpous texture of the uterus, and the vaft
number of veins and arteries with which it is filled. Hence a healthy maid, being
arrived at her growth, begins to prepare more nutriment than is required for the
fupport of the body; which, as there is not to be any farther accretion, muff of
neceffity fill the veffels, and efpecially thofe of the uterus and breafts, they being
the leaft compreffed. Thefe will be dilated more than the others; whence, the
lateral vafcules evacuating their humour into the cavity of the uterus, it will be
filled and extended. Hence a pain, heat, and heavinefs, will be felt about the
loins, pubes, &c. and the veffels of the uterus, at the fame time, will be fo dilated
as to emit blood in the cavity of the uterus, and its mouth will be lubricated and
loofened, and blood iffue out. As the quantity of blood is diminillied, the veffels
will be lefs preffed, and will contra6t themfelves clofer, fo as again to retain the
blood, and let pafs the groffer part of the ferum ;
till at length only the ufual ferum
paffes. Again, there are more humours prepared, which are more eafily lodged
in veffels once dilated; and hence the menfes go and return at various periods in
various perfons.
This hypothefis is judicioufly oppofed by Dr. Drake, who maintains, that there
is no fuch plenitude, or at leaft that it is not neceffary to menftruation; arguing,
that, if the menfes were owing to a plethora fo accumulated, the fymptoms would
arife gradually, and the heavinefs, ftiffnefs, and ina6tivity, neceffary fymptoms of a
plethora, would be felt long before the periods were completed, and women would
begin to be heavy and indifpofed foon after evacuation, and the fymptoms would
increafe daily; which is contrary to all experience, many w^omen, who have them
regularly and eafily, having no warning, nor any other rule to prevent an indecent
fuiprife, than the meafure of the time; in which, fome that have flipped have been
put to confufion and fliifts no ways confiftent with the notice a plethoric body
would give. He adds, that even in thofe who are difficultly purged this way, the
fymptoms, though very vexatious and tedious, do not make fuch regular ap-
proaches
320 A KEY TO PHYSIC
proaches as a gradual accumulation neceffarily requires. If we confider what vio»
lent fyrnptoins come on in an hour, we diall be extremely puzzled to find the-
mighty acceffion of matter, which lliould, in an hour or a day’s time, make fuch
great alterations. According to the hypothecs, ' the laft hour contributed no more
than the firll; and of confequence, the alteration fliould not be greater in the one
than in the other, fetting afide the bare eruption.
There are others who give into the dodlrine of fermentation, and maintain the
evacuation in thcfe parts to be an effedl of an effervefcence or ebullition of the
blood. This opinion has been maintained by Dr. Charleton, and by Bale, De
Graaf, and Drake, the two firft of whom fuppofe a ferment peculiar to women,,
which produces this flux, and aftedls that part only, or at leaft princip'ally. Dr.
Graaf, lefs particular in his notion, only fuppofes an effervefcence of the blood,
raifed by fome ferment, without affigning how it a61s, or w hat it is. The fudden
turgefcence of the blood occafioned them all to think, that it arofefrom fomething
till then extraneous to the blood; and led them to the parts principally affedled to
feek for an imaginary ferment, which no anatomical enquiry could ever fliow, or
find any receptacle for, nor any reafoning neceffarily infer. Again, that heat which
frequently accompanies this turgefcence, led them to think the cafe more than a
plethora, and that there was fome extraordinary inteftine motion at that time.
Dr. Drake contends, that it is not only necelfary there fhould be a ferment, Jbut a
receptacle alfo for this ferment; concluding, from the fuddennefs and violence of
the fymptoms, that a great quantity muft be conveyed into the blood in a ffiort time,
and confequently that it muff; have been ready gathered in fome receptacle, w here,
wdffleit was lodged, its adlion was reffrained. He pretends to afeertain the place
both of the one and the other, making the gall-bladder to be the receptacle, and the
bile the ferment. The liquor he thinks well adapted to raife a fermentation in the
blood, when difcharged into it in quantity; and, as it is contained in a receptacle
that does not admit of a continual iflue, it may be there referved, till in a certain
period of time the bladder becoming turgid and full, through the compreflion of
the incumbent vifcera, it emits the gall; which, by the way of the ladfeals inffnu-
atingitfelf into the blood, may raife that effervefcence which occafions the aperture
of the uterine arteries. To confirm this, he alleges, that perfons of a bilious con-
ftitution have the rnenfes either more plentifully, or more frequently, than others
;
and that diffempers manifeffly bilious are attended with fymptoms refemblingthofe
of w omen labouring under difficult menffruation. But, if this argument be admit-
ted, men would have the rnenfes as well as w'omen. To this however he anfwers,
that men do not abound in bile fo much as women, the pores of the former being
more open, and carrying off more of the ferous part of the blood, which is the
vehicle
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 521
vehicle of all the other humours, and confequently a greater part of each is dif-
charged through them than in women, wherein the fuperfluity muft either continue
to circulate with the blood, or be gathered into proper receptacles, which is the
cafe in the bile. The fame reafon he gives why menftruation Ihould not be in
brutes : the pores of thefe being manifeftly more open than thofe of women, as
appears from the quantity of hair which they bear, for the vegetation whereof a
large cavity, and a wider aperture of the glands, is neceffary, than where no fuch
thing is produced :
yet there is fome difference between the males and females even
among thefe, fome of the latter having their menfes, fuch as the orang outang,^
&c. though not fo often, nor in the fame form and quantity, as women. But with-
out dwelling on thefe abftraft reafonings, the abfurdity of which will be obvious
to every perfon who turns to the foregoing fyftem of human impregnation, we need
only remark, that there are two critical periods in every woman’s life, that completely
deflroy their hypothefis. Thefe are, that at the age of fourteen or fifteen, the menfes
begin to flow; but fubfide at the age of forty or fifty. At their commencement, we
generally find the difficulty, and confequent difeafe, arife from their deficiency;
whereas, according to the foregoing do6lrine, they would then alvmys flow with
the greatefl freedom. At the period w'hen they fliould ceafe, they are apt to come
in fuch abundance as to bring on a flooding, which not only endangers, but too
frequently deftroys, life—a fatal confequence that could not pofiibly happen,
were the above arguments true.
Of FEMININE, or LUNAR, DISEASES,
THAT the vegetative or procreative faculties of women are univerfally governed
by the lunations of the moon, their own experience, as well as the demonftrations
given in my Illustration of Astrology, indifputably prove. The firftfliow of
the catamenia, if it be natural, invariably comes with the new or full moon; or
fometimes, though very feldom, at the commencement of her firft or laft quarters;
and this effort of nature is juflly confidered as the fure fign of a procreating abi-
lity, and of complete puberty. Whenever this feafon arrives, whether early or
late, the conftitution of every female undergoes a confiderable change, and the
greatefl care and attention are then neceffary, fince the future health and happi-
nefs of every woman depends, in a great meafure, upon her conduct at this period.
It is the duty of mothers, and of thofe who are intruded with the education of
girls, to inflrudl them early in the condudl and management of themfelves at this
critical moment. Falfe modefty, inattention, and ignorance of what is beneficial
* See this curious fubjeft, concerning the orang.outang, and other animals refembling the human
fpecies, treated at large, both hiftorically and philofophically, in my new Syftem of Natural Hif-
tory, vol. ii. 8vo.
No. 21. 4N Qf
322 A KEY TO PHYSIC
or hurtful at this time, are the fources of many difeafes and misfortunes, which a
very little attention might now prevent. Nor is care lefs neceffary in the fubfe-
quent returns of this difeharge. Taking improper food, violent agitations of the
mind, or catching cold, is often fufficient to ruin the health, or to render the fe-
male for ever after incapable of procreation.
In order to efcape the chlorofis, and other fimilar difeafes incident to young
women at that period when the menfes commence, let them avoid indolence and
inadlivity, and accuftom themfelves to exercife in the open air as much as poffible.
The difeharge in the beginning is feldom fo inftantaneous as to furprife them un-
awares. The eruption is generally preceded by fymptoms that indicate its ap-
proach ;
fuch as a fenfs of heat, weight, and dull pain, in the loins; diftention and
hardnefs of the breads, hcad-ach, lofs of appetite, laffitude, palenefsof the coun-
tenance, and fometimes a flight degree of fever. When thefe fymptoms occur,
every thing Ihould be carefully avoided which may obflru6t the difeharge, and all
gentle means ufed to promote it ;
as fitting frequently over the fleam of warm
water, drinking warm diluting liquors, &c. When the menfes have begun to flow,
great care Ihould be taken to avoid every thing that tends to obflrudlthem ;
fuch
as fifli, and all kinds of food that are hard of digeflion, and cold acid liquors. Damps
are likcwife hurtful at this period; as alfo anger, fear, grief, and other affe6lions
of the mind. From whatever caufe this flux is obflrudled, except in the date of
pregnancy, proper means diould beindantly ufed to redore it; and if exercife in
a dry, open, and rather cool, air, wholefome diet, generous liquors in a weak and
languid date of the body, cheerful company, and amufernent, fail, recourfe mud
be had to medicine. In all fuch cafes, blood-letting mud be carefully avoided; but
let the patient take from 20 to 30 drops of the Lunar Tindlure, in a wine-glafs of
warm water, or penny-royal tea, every morning before breakfad, every day at
noon, and every night before going to bed, until the intention be anfwered, which
will ufually take place in three or four days, without the afddance of any other
medicine whatever. But it fometimes happens in relaxed conditutions, that the
mendrual difeharge, on its flrd appearance, is vitiated, and over-abundant; the
confequence of which is, that the patient becomes weak, the colour pale, the ap-
petite impaired, and the digedion languid, fo that dropfy or confumption is likely
to enfue. Effedlually to prevent thefe, let the patient be kept two or three days
in bed, with her head low, and obferve a dender diet, principally of white meats,
and her drink red-port negu~. Every night and morning, for ten or twelve days,
let her take one table-fpoonful of the Solar Tindlure, diluted in double the quantity
of deco6lion of nettle-roots, or of the greater comfrey ;
and after the flux has
abated.
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. S23
abtited, and her health andftrength feem to return, let her only take a table-fpoon-
ful of the Solar Tin6ture every other day at noon, in a glafsof cold fpring-water
;
which wonderfully contributes to reftoreadue confiftency to the circulating mafs^
.
promotes digeftion, and invigorates the fpirits. Before the cuftomary period re-
turns, fhe muft difcontinue the Solar Tindlure ;
and, if there be the leaft appear-
ance of irregularity or obftrudtion, let her again take night and morning, for two
or three days, from 20 to 30 drops of the Lunar Tincture, in a glafs of penny-
royal tea, and fhe wall quickly find a regular habit, and her health amazingly efla-
blifhed. In obftinate or negledted cafes, Avhere the menfes have feceded, and,
after an irregular appearance, have turned wholly into the habit, both thefe Tinc-
tures fhould be ufed with a lefs fparing hand, particularly under oircumflancos in
any refpedl fimilar to the following remarkable
CASE.
Being called to the affiflance of a young lady of fifteen years of age, I was in-
formed her menfes had made an irregular appearance about five or fix times, com-
ing firft with the full and then with the new moon, and afterwards at the diflance
of two or three months apart, until they totally difappeared, and turned back upon
the habit. No notice was taken, until the patient was feized with a violent bleed-
ing at the nofe, attended with fever, and epileptic fits. After being under the care
of an eminent phyfician for feveral months, who directed venefedtion, and almoft
every cuftomary application, to no kind of purpofe, the diforder fixed in her neck>
forming a large tumour, the acrimony of which fell upon her lungs, and threw her
into ftrong convulfions. In this extremity I was fent for. Perceiving the whole
fyftem deranged by fpafmodic affedlions, and a locked jaw almoft finally completed,
my firft obje6t was to relieve the vital organs, by giving force and elafticity to the
circulating mafs. With this view, I with difficulty forced open the mouth, and ad-
miniftered one table-fpoonful of the Solar Tindture undiluted
;
and within half
an hour, to the aftonifhment of her friends, I bad the pleafure of feeing every
convulfive fymptom die away, and of hearing the patient’s voice, of which fhe had
been totally deprived for upwards of a week before. Two hours after, another
fpoonful of the Solar Tindlure was taken with additional fuccefs; and the patient
afterwards continued this medicine in the quantity of a table-fpoonful, in a wdne-
glafs of warm water, three times a-da}% for fix days, at the expiration of which time
her appetite and ftrength were furprifingly returned; and fhe was then put under
a regular courfe of the Lunar Tindlure. Twenty drops in a wine- glafs of pennyr
royal tea were taken every night and morning for thirteen fuccelfive days, and on
the morning following, it being the full moon, with which her menfes originally came,
fhe
324 A KEY TO PHYSIC
fhe had the confolation to find that every obfti udion was removed, and that the
due courfe ot nature was completely re-e(la bl Hired. The glandular fwellings gra-
dually fubfided, her natural complexion quickly returned, and the now continues
in blooming health, perfectly regular, fiee from all obftru6lions, and from every
confequent complaint, thankiul tor the bleffings of her recovery, and dcfirous of
communicating the means to any unfortunate female under fimilar atflidion; and
to whom reference may at any time be had, by application to the author.
CHLOROSIS, or GREEN-SICKNESS; by fome called the Love-Fkvek.
THIS difeafe ufually attacks virgins a little after the time of puberty, and firtl
tliows itfelf by fymptoms of dyfpepjia, or bad digeftion. But a diftinguifhing fymp-
tom is, that the appetite is entirely vitiated, and the patient will eat lime, chalk,
afhes, fait, &c. very greedily; while at the fame time there is not only a total in-
appetence to proper food, but it will even excite naufea and vomiting. In the be-
ginning of the difeafe, the urine is pale, and afterwards turbid; the face becomes
pale, and then alfumes a greenifh colour; fometimes it becomes livid or yellow;
the eyes are funk, and have alivid circle round them; the lips lofe their fine red co-
lour; the pulfe is quick, weak, and low, though the heat is little fliort of a fever,
but the veins are fcarcely filled; the feet are frequently cold, fwell at night, and
the whole body feems covered with a foft fwelling; the breathing is difficult: nor
is the mind free from agitation as well as the body ;
it becomes irritated by the
flighteft caufes; and fometimes the patient loves folitude, and becomes fad and
melancholy. There is a retention of the menfes throughout the whole courfe of
the diforder; which eventually fixes on the vital organs, and death enfues.
The above complaint indifputably arifes from ftifling or fupprefTing the calls of
nature at this vernal feafon, or juvenile fpring of life, when the primary command
of God, “ increafe and multiply,'''' is moft fenfibly impreffed upon the whole hu-
man fabric. Every tube and veffel appertaining to the genital fyftem, being now
filled wdth fperrnatic or procreative liquor, excites in the female a powerful, yet per-
haps involuntary, irritation of the parts, which ftronglyfolicits themeans of difeharg-
ing their load, that can only be done by venereal embraces. Thefe, from prudential
reafons, being often necefl’arily denied, the prolific tinctures feize upon the ftornach
and vifcera, pen back and vitiate the catamenia, choke and clog the perfpirative
velfels, whereby the venal, arterial, and nervous, fluids, become ftagnant; and a leu-
cophlegmatia, or w hite flabby dropfical tumour, pervades the whole body, and quick-
ly devotes the unhappy patient to the arms of death. Thus, I am forry to remark,
are thoufands of the moft delicate and lovely women plunged into eternity, in the
very
AND THE OCCULT' SCIENCES. 325
very bloffom of life, when female excellence is but budding forth, big with the
promifed fruit of delicioufnefs and joy 1 How much then does it become the duty
of parents and guardians, who have daughters or wards in fituations like thefe,
and where no very grofs objedlion can arife, to fuffer them to marry with the men
they love, or otherwife to provide fuitable matches for them; fince this willeffedi
the moft rational and moil natural cure, by removing the caufe of the complaint
altogether. If, however, matrimony be not then convenient, nor likely in a fliort
time to take place, recourfe muft forthwith be had to proper regimen, and medical
aid, otherwife delirium or confumption will quickly enfue. The bell method of
regimen is laid down in the medical part of my edition of Culpeper, page 217»
which, if well obferved, in addition to the following courfe, will generally perform
a cure. Take leaves of mugwort, briony, and penny-royal, of each a handful; in-
fufe them four days in two quarts of foft water, and then pour off the clear liquor
for ufe. Take a gill-glafs three parts full, with thirty drops of the Lunar Tindture
added to it, three times a-day, viz. morning, noon, and night, till the decodtion be
all ufed. Then reduce the dofe to twenty drops of the Tindture in a wlne-glafs of
cold fpring-water morning and evening, for fifteen days; after which it may be
taken only once a-day, or every other day, until the patient find herfelf free from,
every fymptom’ of the difeafe. For this malady,, it is the only fpecific hitherto
known,; it unclogs the fpermatic tubes; purges and cools the uterus and vagina;
promotes the menftrual difcharge, cleanfes the urinary palfages, diffolves vifcid
humours in the blood, fiiarpens the appetite, ftimulates the nerves, and invigorates
the fpirits, which in all flages of chlovofis are fo apt to be depreffed. When this
diforder is not very obftihate, nor far advanced,, let the patient take from twenty to
thirty drops of the Lunar Tindture, in a wine-glafs of cold fpring-water, for thirty
or forty days fucceffively, and it will perform a cure without the trouble of pre-
paring the decodlion. In this malady, I have lately had the happinefs of complet-
ing an elegant cure, which I mention here, merely for the information of fuch un-
fortunate maids as may be languifhing under the fame deplorable circumftances.,.
The following is a literal flatement of the
C A S E,
A young lady, turned of feventeen, .had been afflidted with cUoroJis almofl three
years. In the early part of the malady, fhe conceived an unconquerable appetite
for wood-cinders, concreted mortar, tobacco-pipes, fealing-wax, &c.. The courfes
appeared at different intervals of the difeafe, but always irregularly, and more or
lefs in a vitiated ftate. About half a year, preceding my attendance, this flux had
totally ceafed; but, upon the approach of every new moon, with which hermenfes
No. 21. originally
A KEY TO PHYSIC
originally came, Ihe was affli6led with pains in the back and loins, heavinefs and
turgidity about the region of the w’omb, and other cuflomary fymptoms of the ca-
tamenia; yet not the fmalleft diow could be brought to appear. A little before
this, the lady’s alfedlions had been placed on a young man in the neighbourhood;
but whofe lituation in life was by no means on a fcale adapted to the views of her
father and family. The moment therefore this attachment was difcovered, the
lady was confined to her apartment, and not fuffered to take either exercife or
frefli air, but when it fuited for forne trufty attendant to accompany her. This con-
finement brought on a fettled melancholy, a green fallow complexion, dejected
fpirits, univerfal laffitude, and wafting of the fiefh. The morbid ftate of her body
having thus undermined her confiitution, without attradling either her own or her
father’s obfervation, the diforder fell upon the vital organs, and with fo rapid a
progrefs, that within twenty-four hours file was feized with an ardent fever, at-
tended with lofs of appetite, delirium, and a total privation of fpeech. In this
fiiocking ftate, fiie had the alternate advice of three phyficians of the firft refpedla*
bility; but the diforder increafing, and putting on the moft dangerous fymptoms,
after having baffled their utmoft fkill, a confultation was had, and the miferable
patient was conftgned to the grave.
Under thefe deplorable circumftances, it was my lotto be called in; and, upon a
clofe examination of the patient, fcarcely any vifible figns of life remained, Thd
pulfe had nearly fubftded. The addon of the heart and lungs could fcarcely be dift-
cerned. The eyes were funk and fixed; yet retained an uncommon look of expref-
fion and fentiment. At this time fiie had a large blifter round her neck, another on
the pit of herftomach; a third, very large, between her fiioulders; a fourth on the
head; a fifth and ftxth inftde the ankles and legs. Venefeddon had been fo often
repeated, that fcarcely blood enough remained to fupport the heat and addon of
the heart. In this exhaufted ftate, I only adminiftered three table-fpoonfuls of
the Solar Tindlure, undiluted, at intervals of little more than an hour apart; and in
the fpace of four hours after, I had the heart-felt fatisfaddon of feeing the energy
of the blood reftored; pulfation gradually refumed its adlion, the lungs were di-
lated; refpiration became free; and a profufe fweat, which the Tindlure induced,
fortunately opened the perfpiratory veftels; and the patient began to give evident
figns of eafe and fenfibility. Warm nourifiiing food was afterwards taken in fmall
quantities ;
and I was enabled to remove the blifters, and perform the dreffings,
without pain or torture to the languid patient. The Solar Tindlure v-as now admi-
niftered every day for ten days, in the quantity of a table-fpoonful in a wine-glafs
of warm barley-water, three times in the day, and once in the night, whenever
watchfulnefs came on. About the middle of the feventh day, Ihe began to articulate,
though
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 327
though not a word had been uttered for upwards of lix weeks before; and on the
tenth day, her voice and bodily fun6lions were fo far reftored, that I deemed it
fafe to give her an interval of fix days reft, without any medicine whatever. I had the
happinefs to find my expeftations completely anfwered ;
for nature, affifted by nou-
rilhing food, effected more than a profufion of drugs ;
fo that in little more than
twenty days my patient was able to walk about her room, and to put herfelf under a
courfe of the Lunar Tin^ure. This flie perfifted in, with nourilliing diet, feconded
by occafional but very gentle airings in the carriage, for near a month longer ;
when
on the approach of the enfuing new moon, to the unfpeakable joy of her friends,
the menftrual flux refumed its natural courfe: the comfort and relief of which
werefovifible to the patient, that ftie in ecftacy exclaimed, Myfuffermgs‘ are at
Cn end.” This lady has ever fince continued to improve in health and fpirits in fo
furprifing a degree, that looking back on her l£(.te miferable and reduced ftate of
body, forms a contraft fo great as almoft to exceed belief. Yet the lady and her w or-
thy parent are at all times ready to authenticate the faftto any reputable enquirer,
or to the fri^ds of ?iny unfortunate female labouring under a fimilar afflidlion.
Or THE FLUOR ALBUS, or WHITES.
THE fluor albus, female weaknefs, or whites, as it is commonly called, is adif-
cafe of the womb and its contiguous parts; from which a pale-^coloured greeniftl
Or yellow fluid is difcharged, attended with lofs of ftrength, pain in the loins, bad
digeftion, and a wan fickly afpe6l. The quantity, colour, and confiftence, of the
difcharge, chiefly depend upon the time of its duration, the patient’s habit of body,
and the nature of the caufe by which it was produced. Weakly women of lax folids,
who have had many children, and have long laboured under ill health, are of all the
inoft fubjeft to this difagreeable difeafe; from which they unfortunately fuffer more
fevere penance than others, as the niceft fenfations are often conne<fted with fuch a
delicacy of bodily frame as fubje6ls them to it. In Holland it is very frequent, and
in a manner peculiar to the place, from thedampnefs of its fituation; the furround-
ing air being fo overcharged with moifture, as to relax the body, ftop perfpiration,
and throw it upon the bowels or womb; producing in the firft a diarrhoea or flux,,
in the laft the fluor albus or female w'eaknefs. The difcharge often proceeds from
the veffels fubfervient to menftruation; becaufe in delicate habits, where thofe
veffels are weak, and confequently remain too long uncontra6led, the fluor albus
fometimes immediately follows the raenfes, and goes off by degrees as they gradually
clofe. It alfo comes from the mucous glands of the womb, as is particularly evident
in very young females of eight or ten years old ; in whom, though very rarely, it
has
328 A KEY TO PHYSIC
has been obferved. and where it muft then neceffarily have efcaped from Ihofe
parts, as the uterine vcffels are not fnfficiently enlarged for its paffage at fo early
a period. Sometimes, as in women with child, it proceeds from the paffage to the
womb, and not from the womb itfelf; which, during pregnancy, is clofely fealed
up, fo that nothing can pafs from thence till the time of labour. The application
of thofe inftruments called peifaries, from the pain and irritation they occafion,
ere alfo apt to bring on this difcharge. The fiucr albus has been fuppofed to fup-
ply the want of the menfes; becaufe, where the firft prevails, the laft are generally
either irregular, or totally wanting: but it might more properly be faid, that the
prefence of the fluor albus, which is a preternatural evacuation, occafions the ab-
fence of that .which is natural ;
as is evident trom the return of the menfes after
the fluor albus has been cured. Indeed, when this difcharge appears about the
age of thirteen or fourteen, and returns once a-month, with fymptoms like thofe
of the menfes, then it may be deemed ftridtly natural, and ought not to be ftop-
ped. The fluor albus may be diftinguillied into two kinds! The firfl arifes from a
fimple weaknefs, or the relaxation of the folids; which may either be general^
where the whole bodily fyftem is enervated and unftrung; or partial, where the
womb only is afiedted, in confequence of hard labour, frequent mifcarriages, a
fuppreflTion or immoderate quantity of the menfes, or a fprain of the back or loins.
In the firfl; cafe, the difcharge, being generally mild, may be eafily taken away. In
the fecond, it may proceed from a vitiated or impure blood, where the body from
thence is loaded with grofs humours, which nature, for her own fecurity and re-
lief, thus endeavours to carry oflT. In fuch cafes, the difcharge is often of a red-
difh colour, like that from old ulcerous fores; being fometimes fo fharp, as to
excoriate the contiguous parts, and occafion a fmarting, and heat of urine. A
deep-feated darting pain, with a forcing down, attending fuch a difcharge, is a
very dangerous and alarming fign, and indicates an ulceration or cancerous flate
of the womb. This malignant ftate of the difeafe, if of long continuance, is ex-
tremely difficult of cure; and difpofes the patient to barrennefs, a bearing down,
dropfy, or confumption. In fliort, as this is a malady of the moft difagreeable
kind, which by long continuance or neglect becomes difficult of cure, and often
proves fatal, it were to be wiflied that women, on fuch occafions, would be more
attentive to their own fafety, by ufingall poflible means, in due time, to prevent
tlie diforder.
As women are fometimes connected with thofe who do not confcientioufly regard
their fafety, it is a circumftance of the utinoft confequence to diftinguifli a frefli ve-
nereal infection from the fluor _^lbus, or ivhites : for, if the firft be miftaken for the
laft,
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 329
laft, and be either neglected or improperly treated, the word; confequences may
arife. In addition therefore to what I have flated in page 219 of the Medical
Part of my edition of Culpeper, the following figns will ferve to inform the patient
whether there be occafion for her doubts or not. A frefh infedtion, called gonor-
rhoea, is malignant and inflammatory; the fluor albus mod commonly arifes from
relaxation and bodily w'eaknefs; and therefore the remedies proper in the firft dif-
order, would render the laft more violent, by locking up and confining the infec-
tious matter. In the gonorrhoea, the difcharge chiefly proceeds from the parts
contiguous to the uninary palfage, and continues whilft the menfes flow; but in the
fluor albus it is fupplied from the cavity of the womb and its paflage, and then the
menfes are feldom regular. In the gonorrhoea, an itching, inflammation, and heat
of urine, are the forerunners of the difcharge; the orifice of the urinary paflage is
prominent, and the patient is affefted with a frequent irritation to make water. In
the fluor albus, pains in the loins, and lofs of ftrength, attend the difcharge; and,
if any inflammation or heat of urine follow, they happen in a lefs degree, and only
after a long continuance of the difcharge, which, becoming fharp and acrimonious,
excoriates the furrounding parts. In the gonorrhoea, the difcharge fuddenly ap-
pear? without any evident caufe; but in the fluor albus it comes on more flowly,
and is often produced by irregularities of the menfes, frequent afiortion, fprains, or
long-continued illnefs. In the gonorrhoea, the difcharge is greenifti or yellow, lei&
in quantity, and not attended with the fame fymptoms of weaknefs. In the fluor
albus, it is alfo often of the fame colour, efpecially in bad habits of body, and
after long continuance; but is ufually more oflenfive, and redundant in quantity.
The whites often affli6l maids of a weakly conftitution, as well as married women
and widow's; and indeed there are few of the fex, efpecially fuch as are fickly, who
have not known it more or lefs. For whatever difeafe renders the blood poor,
foul, or vifcous, and reduces a woman to a languid condition, is commonly fuc-
ceeded by the whites, which, when they come in this manner, continue to weaken
the body more and more, and are in great danger, without fpeedy remedy, of
wearing ^way the patient, and making her a miferable vidim to death. Let no
woman, therefore, negledlthis diforder, when flie finds it on her, but endeavour to
obtain an immediate cure. The regimen and general management are pointed out
in the Medical Part of the work Juft referred to, p. 220; and, in lieu of all other
.medicines, make a decodtion of toimentil-root, biftort, comfrey, and red-rofe
leaves ;
take a gill-glafs three parts full, and add to it thirty or forty drops of the
Lunar Tindlure, which mull be perfifted in morning, noon, and night, for ten days;
then take it morning and evening only for ten days more ;
after which difcoptinue
No, 21. 4 P the
350 A KEY TO PHYSIC
the deco6lion, and take the Tincture every morning for a month, twenty drops in a
wine-glafs of cold fpring- water, the difeafe M'ill be found gradually to abate; and,
upon any fymptoins of a return of it, take from fifteen to twenty drops of the
Tin6lure in a wine-glafs of cold water every morning for a week, and it will go
entirely off; as hath been verified in a great number of patients, who are ready to
teflify that they owe their cure, even in the mofl obftinate cafes, entirely to the
Lunar Tin6lure.
Of barrenness, or INFERTILITY,
BARRENNESS is fuch a Rate of a woman’s body, as indifpofes it, upon the
ufe of the natural means, to conceive and propagate her fpecies. This proceeds
from many fources, which may be reduced to thefe two general heads: Firft, An
indifpofition of the parts to receive the male femen in the aft of cojiulation, or that
vital effluvium ftreaming from it, which alone can impregnate the ovaria. Se-
condly, An inaptitude in the blood to retain and nourifli the vital principle after
it is communicated, fo as to make it grow and expand its parts, till it becomes a
proper foetus. Conception is alfo hindered by a heftic, hydropic, or feverifh,
lickly habit; by a deficiency or obftruction of the monthly courfes, which impo-
verifhes the fluids; by the whites, which, continuing too long, relax the glands of
the womb, and drown, as it were, the prolific particles; and too often by a vice
which utterly deftroys the tone and vigour of the parts; as is fully exemplified in
the Medical Part of my Culpeper, p. 221.
Preparatory to the cure of infertility, it is proper to ufe evacuations, unlefs any
particular fymptom fliows them to be dangerous. Bleeding, lenient purgatives,
fuch as the folutive eleftuary, and a gentle vomit of ipecacuanha, efpecially if the
perfon be plethoric or cacochymic, cannot but be of great fervice; then proceed
with the following firengthening eleftuary: Take roots of fatyrion and eringo can-
died, of each one ounce; powders of cinnamon, fweet fennel feeds, and preferved
ginger, of each half an ounce; mace, roots of contrayerva, and Spanifli angelica,
of each one dram; troches of vipers, one ounce; juice of kermes, fix drams;
tinfture of cantbarides, half a dram; fyrup of cloves, a fufficient quantity to make
an eleftuary. Let the quantity of a large nutmeg be taken every morning early,
about five o’clock every afternoon, and at night going to bed ; and, immediately
after taking the eleftuary, drink a wine-glafs full of the following infufion, adding
to it from twenty to thirty drops of the Lunar Tinfture, viz. Take cinnamon pow-
dered, one ounce; of fweet fennel-feeds bruifed, and lavender-flowers, of each
half an ounce; Spanilh angelica root, ginger, contrayerva, mace, and coehineal,
of
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 351
of each one dram and a half; canary wine, two quarts : infufe according to art for
two or three days, and ftrain off the infufion for ufe. Continue the electuary for
ten days fucceffively ;
then omit a week, and continue it for ten days more; after
which continue the infufion and Tin6lure only, three times a-day, for ten days
more ; then take it only twice a-day for a month, or as long as the cafe requires,
adding from fifteen to thirty drops of the Tin^lure to each glafs, as the age or con-
ftitution of the patient may require. This courfe will be found moft excellent for
barrennefs and debility ;
particularly while thus affifted by the Lunar Tindlure;
which will greatly warm and reftify the blood and juices, increafe the animal fpi-
rits, invigorate and revive the whole human machine, and not only raife the appe-
tite to venereal embraces, but remove the ufual impediments to fertility; prepare
the womb for performing its. office, and the ova for impregnation. TheTindure
warms, comforts, and excites, the generative parts to admiration, and feldom fails
of curing all common occafions of barrennefs in a month or fix weeks, if duly fol-
lowed ;
as a proof of which I beg leave to add the pleafing circumliances of the
following fingular
C A S E.
A YOUNG LADY of rank and fortune, but of a delicate frame, entered into the
marriage ftate about four years ago. Inftead of deriving from it that blifsful gra-
tification which gives the honoured name of Mother, ftie became weak, languid,
pale, and melancholy. The whole nervous fyftem was relaxed—the natural func-
tions of the body were fufpended—oedematous tumours obftrudled the farrguife-
rous palfages, whence incurable barrennefs and lingering coufumption were the
fad profpedls left in view. In this melancholy ftate of body and mind, by advice
of her phyfician, when all hopes were at an end, flie was put under a regular courfe
of the Lunar Tincture; which, to the aftonifliment of all, gradually deterged
the obftru6led vefiels—propelled the animal juices through the fyftem—ftrengtb-
ened and braced the nerves—induced a regular habit—reftored the fparkling eye
and rofy cheek, and gave new vigour to the animal functions—the refult of which
has been, that before the end of the enfuing year, after her health was thus reco-
vered, the lady became the happy mother of a SON and HEIR, to the inexpref-
fible joy of an affedlionate hulband and a fympathifing family 1
INDIS-
A KEY TO PHYSIC
f3£
INDISPOSITIONS ATTENDANT ON PREGNANCY.
THOUGH pregnancy is not a difeafe, but rather a natural alteration of the ani-
mal oeconomy, which every female is formed to undergo, yet it is attended with a
variety of complaints which require great attention; but for the cure or alleviation
of which, medical aid has proved very deficient. In thefe complaints, however,
the Lunar Tindure exerts moft extraordinary properties, and excels whatever has
been heretofore offered under a medical form. It is an univerfal purifier of thofe
heterogeneous particles which produce naufea, and arife from the combining ef-
forts of the mafculine and feminine tindlures; from whence, according to the
groffnefs of the procreative effences at the time of conception, proceed vomiting,
pains in the head and flomach, fainting, &c. occafioned by the jarring elements
arifing from the difproportion in the heat and adlive principle of the conftituent
parts of the male and female feed; which is not only attended with great debility
anddepreffion to the mother, in her whole nervous fyftem, but often with heredi-
tary difeafes, and dreadful confequences to the infant offspring. Indeed fo great
has been the conflidt of the male and female procreative tindlures for the maftery
or predominant power, while pafling through the circulating mafs or habit of the
mother, that the moft curious and aftonifihing phenomena have, on many occa-
fions, been obferved to refult from it.—In a fmall village in Somerfetftiire, in the
year 1759, a girl was born with the hair on her head of two remarkably diftindf co-
lours : the right fide, from an exa6t parallel line which divided the flcull into two
equal parts, was almoft black; but the left fide, from the fame line, was of ared-
difli yellow. As ftie grew up, the dark hair became of a jet black, exadlly like
that of her father ;
whilft the other became of a ftrong carrotty red, precifely re-
fembling that of her mother; and, after the age of puberty, the hair on the privi-
ties, and under the arm- pits, as well as on the arms and legs, was diverfified in the
fame manner; that on the right fide, all the way down from head to foot, being
black; whilft that on the left was entirely red. The young woinan lived till the
S8th year of her age, and was reforted to as a great curiofity.
Another well-known yet remarkable inftance'of this conflidl of the male and fe-
male procreative tindlures at the time of impregnation, was the cafe of a man
who a few years firicekept a public-houfe in Tooley-ftreet, Southwark. His fa-
ther was a white man, belonging to one of the Weft-India packets; and his mother
was a negro-girl, whom he had taken a fancy to, and purchafed on the arrival of
one of the Guinea flave-ihips at the ifland of Jamaica. He brought her with him
to
333
AND THE OCCULT SCI^1NCES.
to London, and in the courfe of the enfuing year fhew as delivered of a fon, the
whole right fide of which was white like the father, but the whole of the left fide
was black like the mothen As he grew up, this vifible diftin6lion became more
flrongly marked ;
and, during the time he kept the above public-houfe in Tooley-
ftreet, he was reforted to by an imrnenfe concourfe of people, who flocked there to
fpend their mite, in order to be fatisfied that fo great a curiofity really exifted. The
whole of his body appeared to be interfe<5i:ed by an exa6l parallel line, by which
the efforts of conception feem to have united the male and female tinctures in
precife equilibrio, without fuffering them to intermix in coagula, or in impreg-
nating and expelling the ovum from the ovaria, to its fufpended ftate in the
uterus. Hence the hair on the right fide was long and brown, like that of the
father; and half the face, neck, body, and privities, with the arm, thigh, leg, and
foot, on the right fide, were white; while the correfponding parts on the left fide
were black, like the mother, with half the hair on the privities and head black
and woolly, exa611y like that of a true negro.
A ftill more curious and flriking example of this aflonifhing effort in the male and
female procreative fluids, is verified in the cafe of Mr. John Clark, of Prefcot-
ftreet, Goodman’s-fields. His father was a native of Africa, w'ho by dint of good
fortune had amaffed a confiderable fum of money, and fettled in London. He
married a remarkably healthy white woman, a native of Devonfhire, who had
been fome time his fervant. By her he had two fons and three daughters, who
were mulattos, exeept the eldeft fon, w'ho was the firft born, and the perfon here
alluded to. From the head to the navel, all round his body, he was remarkably
fair, had a fine fkin, handfome round features, light-brown hair, and fanguine com-
plexion, like his mother; but from the navel downwards he was completely black,
with Ihort black woolly hair on the privities, exadlly like the father. At the age of
thirty he married a young lady of good family and fortune, but of a delicate difpo-
fition. For near three months he had the addrefs to conceal this deformity of colour
from the knowledge of his wife, by wearing flefli-coloured flljk drawers and ftock-
ings, which he pretended were lined with flannel to keep off the rheumatifm, with
which he had been forely afflidled, even to a degree that endangered his life, every
time he attempted to leave them off. It happened, however, from fome negledl of
concealment before going to fleep, that the curiofity of his wife was ftrongly excit-
ed ;
and the opportunity proving favourable in other refpedfs, it being quite day-
light in the morning, and her hufband fall afleep, file eagerly proceeded to fatisfy
her doubts. Gently turning down the bed-clothes, and removing the other impe-
diments in the way of a complete infpedlion, flie no fooner difcovered the real
No. 22. 4 Q {late
334 A KEY TO PHYSIC
ilate of things, than ilie fhrieked out vehemently, and fainted away ! The huf-
band, thus fuddenly awakened, beheld his wife in a fit, and faw with forrow and re-
gret the confequences of a difcovery which refulted from his own negle6l. He
immediately arofe, called up the fervan^s, and procured medical affiftance with
all convenient fpeed ;
but in vain—the fudden furprife, added to the mortification
and terror of mind, had fo powerful an effe6I, that the lady died in convulfions,
nearly two months gone with child. I have often lamented that fortune did not
throw me in the way at this critical jun6lure, for two reafons : in the firfi; place, I
have the vanity to think I could have faved the patient’s life ;
but, had I failed,
in the fecond, I would have perfuaded Mr, Clark, from motives of philofophical
fpeculation, and for the improvement of medical fcience, to have fuffered me to
open the womb of this unfortunate lady, in order to extra6t the fcetus ;
which, under
the circumftances of this uncommon conformation of the father, might have enabled
me to throw a new light on this very curious fubje6t of occult enquiry, perhaps
fo as to have accounted, more obvioufly, for the jarring confli6ts and jftruggling
efforts of the mafculine and feminine tinclures; to which alone we are to look to
for the formation of hermaphrodites, the produ6Iion of monfters, &c.
Sympathy and antipathy mofi; certainly operate very powerfully on females in the
early flate of pregnancy, and might, as was then fuggefted, have had a principal
fiiare in carrying off the above unhappy patient, while no means were ufed to coun-
tcra6l their influence on the mafs of blood. Sudden frights, longing and loathing,
and all marks on the foetus, are obviously derived from this caufe, and can only be
corrected by giving energy and ftimulus to the circulating fyflem, whereby the func-
tions both of mind and body are ftrengthened, and the nervous fluid fortified and
j)rote6fed againfi; the fudden impreffion of external obje6ls. It feems to be admit-
ted by many eminent pradtitioners, that the difeafes incident to a pregnant date in
the early months, arife from fympathy ;
whilft thofe peculiar to the more advanced
fiages of geftation, are produced by the ffretching and preffure of the uterus on
the contiguous vifeera. Thus heart-burn and diarrhoea, tenfion and pains of the
breaft, naufea and head-ach, defire of unnatural food, tremors, and deje6led fpirits,
fainting and hyfteric fits, premature menftruation, and confequent abortion, proceed
from the firfi of thefe caufes; while cofiiveness, firangury, cramp, and cholic, ap-
pear to refult from the other. And, though the celebrated Dr. Stahl, Dr. Cullen,
and others, have fo much differed as to the theory of thefe difeafes, yet they all agree
that gentle opiates, aromatic infufions, firengthening bitters, and medicines calcu-
lated to give energy to the languid fiate of the circulation, and to purify the grofs
and vifeid elements which opprefs the fiomach and vifeera, are the only proper re-
medies
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES, 335
medies to be adminiftered. Now the Lunar Tindture poffelTes the aromatic and
aftringent virtues in an admirable degree ;
and is elegantly adapted to invigorate
and affift the adlive faculties of nature, in expelling all vifcid humours from the
Homach and bowels ;
and, being compounded of the moft fubtle and occult ele-
ments, which prefervethe vital principle, it hence produces the moft falutary effedls
on all women in a ftate of pregnancy, by ftimulating the procreative faculty to the
formation of the fineft children; corredting and purifying the procreative fluid from
infedlion or difeafe ;
preventing moles or falfe conceptions, removing all loathings,
longings, or vomiting, and effedlively preventing abortion, from any caufe what-
ever.—For thefe reafons, when a woman enters into the ftate of matrimony, flie
Avould do well to take twenty drops of the Lunar Tindlure every other morning, to
promote conception ; flie fliould then continue it three times a-week, from concep-
tion to the end of the fourth month ; then it may be omitted till a fortnight before
her time, when the fhould take twenty drops in a wine-glafs of cold fpring-water
every morning till her labour, at which time it will wonderfully ftrengthen her, affift
her throw's, facilitate the birth, promote the lochia, and carry off the after-pains.
She might take it occafionally during the month, in any fymptoms of cold, fever, or
hyfterics, diluted in a wine-glafs of warm barley-water, about the middle of the day.
Women w’ho are fubjedl to mifcarriages, fliould never fail to take this medicine,
from the time they have reafon to believe they are pregnant, until a full month after
they have quickened. It may be taken once, twdce, or thrice, a-day, or every other
day, as the urgency of the cafe may require, from twenty to thirty drops, in a glafs
of forge-water, or in foft fpring-w'ater in which common oak-bark has been fteeped;
and flie will effedlually get over all caufes of abortion. Women after fudden mif-
carriages, or bad labours, w’ill find wonderful relief by taking tw’enty drops of it
in a wine-glafs of warm barley-water, for a w'eek or ten days. Nurfes, alfo, whofe
milk is griping, or defedlive, fliould take it once or twice a-day, or as often as
occafion may require. The intention wall quickly be experienced, the milk will
be purified and augmented, and all the fluid fecretions promoted in a manner pro-
du6tive of found health, both to the mother and child. —In cafes where oedematous
fw'ellings of the legs and labia are occafioned by the interruption of the refluent
blood from the preffure of the diftended uterus on the vena cava^—in violent flood-
ings—in nervous fpafms—in epileptic fits, and in obftinate convulfions, where
the vis vitcB muft be fupporled by replenifliing the veffels wdth the utmoft fpeed
—recourfe fliould be had to the Solar Tindlure, which in the moft dangerous
cafes has been found to give immediate relief; and, if duly perfifted in, according
to the bill of diredlions, will fcarcely ever fail to effedl a cure.
STATE
336 A KEY TO PHYSIC
STATE OF WOMEN at the TURN of LIFE.
THE moft critical and dangerous time of a woman’s life is that wherein the men-
fes ceafe to flow, which ufually happens between forty and fifty years of age. The
great change that this produces, by fo copious a drain being returned into the habit,
without previous preparation, is the foie caufe of its danger. Every woman mufl; be
more or lefs fenfible when this period arrives, and lliould condu6lherfelf according-
ly; for, when the menfes are about to go off, they appear for the moft part irregu-
larly, both in time and quantity; once in a fortnight, three, five, or fix, weeks;
fometimes very fparingly, and other times in immoderate quantities. For want only
of neceflary care and attention, during the time that the menfes thus give fymptoms
of their departure, many and various are the complaints that enfue; amongft which
are cold chills, fucceeded by violent flufliings of the face, and heats of the extre--
mities; reftlefs nights, troublefome dreams, and unequal fpirits; imflammations of
the bowels ;
fpafmodic affedlions ;
ftiffnefs in the limbs, fwelled ankles, fore legs, with
pains and inflammation; the piles, and other fymptoms of plenitude. But all this
might eafily be prevented, by attending to a due regimen, and taking thefe Tinc-
tures as occafion may require. Whenever a woman has reafon to fufpedl her men-
fes are about to leave her, let her lofefour, five, or fix, ounces of blood, as her habit
of body will admit; then let her make a decodtion, by taking gentian-roots, one
pound ;
fenna and orange-peel, of each half a pound ;
pour upon them a gal-
lon of hot w'ater, and, after it has ftood twenty-four hours, pour off the liquor for
ufe. Let her take from twenty to forty drops of the Lunar Tindlure in a gill-glafs
of the above decodlion, every night and morning for ten days ;
then let her con-
tinue it every morning for ten days more, and afterwards once every two or three
days, or oftener if the terms are of an ill colour and fcent, until they are correded .
This courfe muft be followed every fpring and fall, for a month or fix weeks fuccef-
fively, by all women who find their menfes come irregularly, or too fparing, until
they entirely ceafe ;
after vvhichlet the patient put herfelf under a courfe of the Solar
Tin61ure for a month or fix weeks, taking one fpoonful in a wine-glafs of warm
water every night and morning for a week ;
then let it be taken only once a-day, in
cold water, for the refidue of the time ;
and, if flie takes occafionally two table-
fpoonfuls of the Solar Tindlure, diluted in a tumbler of w'arrn water, as a beverage
after dinner or fupper, inftead of wine or brandy and water, it will be produdlive
of great benefit in eftablifliing a healthful ftate of the blood, and carrying off the
vifcid humours generally produced by the menftrual flux returning into the habit.
Should
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES, 337
Should it at this time happen, which it often does, that the terms flow too abun-
dantly, and produce a flooding, ttie patient thull inlniediabeiy lofe fix or eight ounces
, of blood, and be kept as much as poflible at reftj with her head low, until the me-
dicine has had time to take efle6t; let her diet be fpare, but not too lax; and
let her apply to the following courfe : Take conferve of red rofes, marmalade of
^ quinces, juice of kermes, candied nutmegs, fyrup of quinces, and fyrup of coral,
of each half an ounce; aromaticum rofalbum, and aftringent faffron of iron, of
each two drams; oil of cinnamon, fix drops: mix into an eledtuary, (which might
be made up by any apothecary, if the receipt be fent him ;) and take the quantity
. bf a large nutmeg every day at noon for fix, eight, or ten, days, or longer, as the
urgency of the cafe may require, drinking immediately after it twenty drops of the
Lunar Tindure in a wine-glafs of warm water: the flooding, by this means, will
gradually abate, the feverilh fymptoms will go off, the back will be ftrengthened,
the womb-veflels cleanfed, and the patient wonderfully reftored. After the tenth
day, in moft cafes, the ele6tuary might be difcontinued ;
and the Lunar Tinflure
fliould then be taken every morning for a month, from fifteen to twenty drops, ac-
cording to the conftitution of the patient ;
by which time the parts will be braced,
comforted, and coiled up; fo as to fear no danger of a relapfe. About a month
after, let her undergo a courfe of the Solar Tincture, for the purpofe of rectifying
and flimulating the mafs of blood ; this fhould be taken for a month ;
a table-
fpoonful night and morning in a wine-glafs of cold fpring-water for the lirft ten
days; and then once a-day only for the refidue of the time; the good effeCts of
which will be fenfibly and quickly felt.
The intention of nature in returning this flux back into the habit, is to nourtfii
and preferve life, not to deftroy it. Until the age of puberty, girls require this
blood for the fuftentation and nourifliment of their bodies; when that is fufficiently
eftablilhed, it is applied to the purpofes of nourifliing the foetus, and of fuckling
the infant after it is born. When child-bearing ceafes, and the eve of life comes
on, the flux is returned back, to comfort and preferve it ;
therefore, if women were
but careful to obferve a regular courfe before this flux returns upon them, by
adopting the methods I have prefcribed, and by taking the medicine fpring and
fall for two or three years previous to the time, they might not only efcape the
perils and dangers attendant on this period, but would lay the foupdation of a
fettled llate of health, and enjoy a found conftitution of body to extreirie old age.
i R
No. 22. Of
^58 A KEY TO PHYSIC
Of masculine, or SOLAR, DISEASES.
SOLAR difeafes are all fuch as proceed from a hot and dry caufe, and havfe
their origin in the blood and lymph. For, as the beams flowing from the fun are
the fountain of life and heat to the great world, or univerfal fyftem of nature, fo
the blood, flowing from the heart, is the fountain of life and heat to the little world,
or univerfal fyftem of the microcofin, or body of man. And again, as the ftream
of rays from the fun regulates the feafons, and produces the variety of climates,
fo the ftream of blood in man’s body, as affedled by the fun, regulates and diverfi-
fies the form and figure of the whole race of human beings. As feafons and cli-
mates are fubje6l to the external elements, which are ftill governed by the fuperior
influence of the fun, fo they are rendered hither mild, healthful, and produdiive, or
turbulent, peftilential, and barren. Juft fo the whole circulating mafs is affedled
by change of climates and feafons, and by all the variations and agitations of the
external elements; and hence difeafes are induced in the blood, and are either
mild, ardent, or acute, in proportion as the fanguiferous fluid becomes diftempered
and impaired by the ahlion of the ambient, or contiguous atmofpbere. Thus w’e
perceive the folar influence on the human frame, and difcover that the origin of
difeafe is in the blood ;
for, no longer than this vital ftream is kept in due circula-
tion, pure and uncontaminated, can animal life be fuftained, or the body pre«
ferved in health and vigour.
From the exprefs words of Scripture, Levit. xvii. 11, 14. Deut. xii. 23. we are
warranted to infer, that ‘‘
in the BLOOD is the LIFE and there is not a doubt
but the living principle of the blood conftitutes the life of the body. Of this opi-
nion was the celebrated Hervey, as w ell as many of the ancient philofophers and
phyficians; and the late Mr. John Hunter declared himfelf to be of the fame way
of thinking. We find the blood unites living parts, in fome circumftances, as
certainly as the yet-recent juices of the branch of one tree unite it with that of
another. Were either of thefe fluids to be confidered as extraneous or dead mat-
ters, they would a6l as 'ftimuli, and no union w'ould take place in the animal or
vegetable kingdoms. This argument Mr. Hunter eftabliflied by the following ex-
periment. Having taken off the tefticle from a living cock, he introduced it into
the belly of a living hen. Many weeks afterwards, upon inje6ling the liver of
the hen, he inje6led in the tefticle of the cock likewife, which had come in contact
with the liver, and adhered to it. In the nature of things there is not a more inti-
mate connexion between life and a folid than between life and a fluid. For, although
we are more accuftoined to connect it with the one than the other, yet the only real
difference
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 339
difference which can be fhown between a folid and a fluid is, that the particles of
the one are lefs moveable among themfelves than thofe of the other. Befides, we
often fee the fame body fluid in one cafe and folid in another. The blood will
alfo become vafcular, like other living parts. Mr. Hunter affirms, that, after am-
putations, the coagula in the extremities of arteries form velfels, and may be inje6led
by injedling thefe arteries ;
and he had a preparation by which he could demon-
flrate velfels rifing from the centre of what had been only a coagulum of blood, and
opening into a llream of circulating blood. If blood be taken from the arm in the -
moft intenfe. cold which the human body can bear, it raifes the thermometer to the
fame height as blood taken in the moll fultry heat. This is a llrong proof of the
blood’s being alive ;
for living bodies alone have the power of refilling great de-
grees both of heat and cold, and of maintaining in almoll every lituation, while in
health, that temperature which we dillinguilh by the name of animal heat. Blood
is likewife capable of being a<5led upon by a llimulus; for it coagulates from expo-
fure, as certainly as the cavities of the abdomen and thorax inflame from the fame
caufe. The more it is alive, that is, the more the animal is in health, itcoagulates
the fooner on expofure ; and the more it has loll of its living principle, as in the
cafe of violentinflammations, the lefs is it fenfible to the llimulus produced from
its being expofed, and it coagulates the later. We may likewife obferve, that the
blood preferves life in different parts of the body. When the nerves going to a
part are tied or cut, the part becomes paralytic, and lofes all power of motion
;
but it does not mortify. If the artery be cut, the part dies, and mortification
enfues. What keeps it alive in the firll cafe? nothing but the living principle which
alone can keep it alive ;
and this phenomenon is inexplicable on any other fuppoli-
tion than that the life is contained in the blood. Another argument is drawn by Mr.
Hunter from a cafe of a fra(5lured os humeri. A man was brought into St. George’s
hofpital for a Ample fra6lure of the os humeri, or arm ;
and died about a month
after the accident. As the bones had not united, Mr. Hunter injected the arm
after death. He found that the cavity between the extremities of the bones was
filled up with blood which had coagulated. This blood w'as become vafcular, or
full of veflels ;
in fome places it was very much fo. He does not maintain that all
coagulated blood becomes vafcular : and indeed the reafon is obvious ;
for it is
often thrown out and coagulated in parts where its becoming vafcular could anfwer
no end in the fyftem ;
as, for example, in the cavities of aneurifmal facs. tf it be
fuppofed, that, in fuch cafes as that juft now mentioned, the veflels are not formed
in the coagulum, but come from the neighbouring arteries, it is equally an argu-
ment that the blood is alive; for the fubftance into which veflels flioot muft be fo.
The
340 A KEY TO PHYSIC
'i ; . :
I
^
„ -
:t
yhe very idea, that fuch a, quantity of dead matter as the whole mafs of blood
circulates iq a living body, is qbfolutely abfurd.
^
,,i,Thofe who have venturecjl, to oppofe this do6lrine, and the evidence of Scripture
jyitbjt, conflder the brain and, nervous fyftem as the fountain of life; an^ that, fo
far from receiving its life from the blood, the nervous fyftem is capable of inftan-
taneppfly changing the crafis^of the blood, or any other animal fluid; and, though
the neryous fyftem cannot continue its adion for any length of time if the aftion
of^ tl;te blppd-veflels is fufpended, yet the heart and blood-veffels cannot a<^ for a
Tingle, moment witl^out the influence of the nervous fluid. For this reafon, fay
they^ it is plain we muft fuppofe the nervous fyftem, and not the blood, to contain
properly tl^e life of the animal, and confequently to be the principal vital, organ.
The fecretion of the vital fluid from the blood by means of the brain, is, by the
fupporters of this argument, denied. They fay, that any fluid fecreted from the
bipod muft be aqueous, inelaftic, and ina6tive ;
whereas the nervous fluid is full
of vigour, elaftic, and volatile in the higheft degree. The great neceflity for the
circulation of the blppd through all parts of the body, notwithftanding the pre-
fence of the nervous fluid in the fame parts, they fay is, becaufe fomp degree of
tenfion is neceflary to be given to the fibres, in order to fit them for the influx of
the nervous fluid ;
and this tenfion they receive from the repletion of the blood-
veffels, which are eyery-where difperfed along with the nerves.
To follow this opinion through every argument would prove tedious and un-
.neceffary, as the following fliort obfervations will decide the matter abfolutdy
againft the patrons of the nervous fyftem. In the firft place, then, if we can prove
the life of the human body to have been communicated from a fluid to the nervous
fyftem, the analogical argument will be very ftrongly in favour of the fuppofitiou
that the cafe is fo ftill. Now that the cafe once was fo, is moft evident; for the
human body, as well as the body of every other living creature, in its firft ftate, I
have fhown to be a gelatinous mafs, without mufcles, nerves, or blood-veffels.
Neverthelefs this gelatinous matter, even at that time, contained the nervous fluid.
Of this there can be no doubt, becaufe the nerves are formed out of it, and have their
power originally from it; and what is remarkable, the brain is obferved to be that
part of the animal which is firft formed. Of this gelatinous or procreative fluid
we can give no further account, than it is the nutritious matter from which the
whole body appears to be formed. At the original formation of man and other ani-
mals, therefore, the nutritious matter was made the fubftratum of the whole body,
Gonfifting of mufcles, nerves, blood-veffels, &c. nay more, it was the immediate
efficient caufe of the nervous power itfelf. Again, in the formation of the embryo.
we
341
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES,
we fee a vital principle exifting as it were at large, and forming to itfelf a kind of
regulator to its own motions, or a habitation in which it choofes to refide, rather
than to a6t at random in the fluid. This habitation, or regulator, is undoubtedly
the nervous fyftem ; but at the fame time, it is no lefs evident that a nutritious fluid
is the immediate origin of thefe fame nerves, and of that very nervous fluid. Now
we know, that the fluid which in the womb nouriflies the bodies of all embryo ani-
mals, is necelfarily equivalent to the blood which nouriflies the bodies of adult
ones ;
and confequently, as foon as the blood became the only nutritious juice" of
the body, at that fame time the nervous fluid took up its refidence there, and from
the blood diffufed itfelf along the nerves, w'here it was regulated exadlly according
to the model originally formed in the embryo. Perhaps it may be faid, that the vital
power, when once it hath taken polfeflion of the human or any other body, requires
no addition or fupply, but continues there in the fame quantity from firft to laft. If
we fuppofe the nervous powder to be immaterial, this will indeed be the cafe, and
there is an end of reafoning upon the fubje6l ;
but, if we call this power a volatile
and elaftic fluid, it is plain that there will be more occafion for recruits to fuch a
power than to any other fluid of the body, as its volatility and elafticity Avill pro-
mote its efcape in great quantities through every pore of the body. It may perhaps
be objected, that it is abfurd to fuppofe the blood capable of putting matter in fuch
a form as to dire6l its own motions in a particular way : but even of this we have a
pofitive proof in the cafe of the eledtric fluid. For, if any quantity of this matter
has a tendency to go from one place to another where it meets with difficulty,
through the air for inftance, it will throw fmall eonduding fubftances before it, in
order to facilitate its progrefs. Alfo, if a number of fmall and light conducing
fubftances are laid between two metallic bodies, fo as to form a circle, for example
;
a flaock of eledricity will deftroy that circle, and place the fmall conduding fub-
ftances nearer to a ftraight line between the tw'o metals, as if the fluid knew there was
a fliorter paflage, and refolved to take that, if it fliould have occafion to return.
Laftly, it is univerfally allowed, that the brain is a fecretory organ, made up of an
infinite number of fmall glands, which have no other excretories than the medul-
lary fibres and nerves. As a confiderable quantity of blood is carried to the brain,
and the minute arteries end in thefe fmall glands, it follows, that the nervous fluid
mujl comefrom the blood. Now, there is no gland whatever, in the human or
any other body, but will difcharge the fluid it is appointed to fecrete, in very con-
fiderable quantity, if its excretory is cut. Upon the cutting of a nerve, therefore,
the fluid fecreted by the brain ought to be difcharged; but no fuch difcharge is vifi-
ble. A fmall quantity of glairy matter is indeed difcharged from the large nerves
;
No. 22. 4 S but
342 A KEY TO PHYSIC
but this can be no other than the nutritious juice neceffaryfor their fupport. This
makes it plain, even to demonftration, that the fluid lecreted in the brain is invifi-
ble in its nature ;
and, as we know the nervous fluid hath its refidence in the brain,
it is very probable, to ufe no ftronger expreffion, that it is the peculiar province of
the brain to fecrete this fluid from the blood, and confequently that the blood origi-
nally contains the vital principle.
This fadl being eftabliflied, I fliall now endeavour to defcribe the adlion of quick-
ening, or mode by which life is communicated to the child in the womb, which
ufually takes place in the fifth month of pregnancy. Opportunities, however, of
differing the human gravid uterus at or near this critical jundlure occurring but
feldom, it is with great difficulty that a fubjedl of this delicate and abftrufe nature
can be treated with perfpicuity, and is the principal caufe why it has not been at-
tempted by former phyfiologifts. I have already Ihown, that the rudiments of the
embryo puts forth four membranes, viz. the placenta, the navel-ftring, the chorion,
and the amnios, which contains the fluid above-mentioned, in which the foetus floats.
Until the period of quickening arrives, the embryo poffeffes only vegetative life, fimi-
lar to that of a common plant ;
and its growth is nouriflied and preferved by the
fluid in which it fvvims, until the nerves, veins, arteries, and vital organs, are en-
tirely formed, and the circulation of its mother’s blood is completed through them,
which is condudted in the following manner.
The placenta is the medium by which the blood from the heart of the mother is
communicated to that of the child; but to check its too rapid progrefs, which would
overwhelm the tender veffels of the infant frame, the texture of the placenta is form-
ed firnilar to that of a fponge, round like a cake, of confiderable dimenfions, and
capable of great abforption, being chiefly made up of the ramifications of the um-
bilical arteries and vein, and partly of the extremities of the uterine veffels. The
arteries of the uterus difcharge their contents into the fubftance of this cake ;
and
the veins of the placenta, receiving the blood either by a diredl communication of
veffels, or by abforption, at length form the umbilical vein, which paffes on to the
finus of the vena porta, and from thence to the vena cava, and heart of the infant,
by means of the canalis venofus, a communication that is clofed up in the adult.
But the circulation of the blood through the heart is not conduced in the foetus as
in the adult : in the latter, the blood is carried from the right auricle of the heart
through the pulmonary artery, and is returned to the left auricle by the pulmonary
vein ;
but a dilatation of the lungs is effential to the paffage of the blood through
the pulmonary veffels, and this dilatation cannot take place till after the child is
born, and has refpired. This deficiency is therefore fupplied in the foetus by an
immediate
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 343
immediate communication between the right and left auricle, through an oval open-
ing, in the feptum which divides the two auricles, called foramen o*vale. The
blood in the foetus is likewife tranfmitted from the pulmonary artery to the aorta,
by means of a dudf called canalis arteriofus, which, like the canalis venofus and fo-
ramen ovale, gradually clofes after birth. The blood is returned again from the
foetus to the mother through two arteries called umbilical arteries, which arifefrom
the iliacs. Thefe two velfels, taking a winding courfe with the vein, form with that
and the membranes by Avhich they are furrounded, what is called the umbilical
chord. Thefe arteries, after ramifying through the fubftance of the placenta, dif-
charge their blood into the veins of the uterus, in the fame manner as the uterine
arteries difcharged their blood into the branches of the umbilical vein. So that, after
quickening, the blood of the mother is conftantly palTing in at one fide of the pla-
centa, and out again at the other, for the nourifliment of the child.
N ow w'hat we call the aBlon ofquickening^ is that inftantaneous, yet undefcribable,
motion of the vital principle, which, the inftant the foetus has acquired a fufficient
degree of animal heat, and is completely formed in all its parts, ruflies like an elec-
tric lliock, or flafli of ligh^iing, condudted by the fanguiferous and nervous fluids,
from the heart and brain of the mother, to the heart and brain of the child. At
this moment the circulation begins ;
the infant fabric is completely fet in motion,
and the child becomes a living foul. As foon, therefore, as the circulation com-
mences, the child ftarts into life ;
and the inftant the circulation ceafes, life ceafes alfo.
This aU ofquickening is therefore derived from the blood ;
and is fo fenfibly felt by
the mother, that ftie often faints, or feels an internal depreftion of her animal and
vital powers, which may be faid, in fome meafure, to have departed from her. But
the a6l of quickening does not take place in all women at the fame period, nor al-
ways in the fame woman at the fame diftance of time from her conception ; nor is it
governed by any given number of weeks or days after conception has taken place;
but depends entirely on that inftant of time, when the joint influence of animal
heat, and an entire completion of the nerves, veins, arteries, and other parts and or-
gans, of the foetus, are fitted and ready to receive and fupport a due circulation of
the blood and juices; for this, and this alone, is the fource of quickening, and the
beginning 6f animal life. Strong and healthy women will therefore quicken fooner
than the weak and delicate, by reafon that their procreative and ftimulating pow-
ers are more robuft, and can fooner contribute that portion of animal heat which is
neceflary to the entire completion of the foetus in all its parts; and which will hap-
pen fooner or later, according to the health and ftrength of the pregnant woman,
and her fufficiency of menftrual blood to fupport the demand. For this flux will
S44 A KEY TO PHYSIC
now be wholly taken up by the new fubjeft, until the hour of birth ; after which it
either renews its monthly evacuation, as being redundant in the mother : or if die
fuckles the child, it is then determined to the mammae, and is converted into milk.
Such is this curious and moft admirable contrivance of nature, for the re-pro-
du6lion and propagation of mankind ;
and fuch the nature and event of that myfte-
rious a6lion of quickening, which has hitherto been involved in fo much darknefs
and obfcurity, as to lead the unthinking multitude to fuppofe, that giving life to the
foetus was in every inftance a new and diftin6t interpofition of the Deity, inftead of
religioufly imputing it to that primary exertion of his omnipotence, which, in the
original formation of Adam, implanted in his nature the power of re-producing his
like, and of imparting life and foul to his fpecies, by a fixed and immutable decree,
to be continued down from father to fon, to the final end and confummation of this
fublunary would. If the feed of Adam had not been originajly endued with the
gift of imparting life and fpirit to his future generations, how could the fouls of his
defcendants be fubjefted to original fin? Were any one child defcended from the
race of Adam to receive the gift of life and foul from a fubfequent exertion oft he
power of God, it would become a new and diftin6l a<5l of creation; and the offspring
could not pofiibly be contaminated by the Fall, nor befubje6led to the miferies and
misfortunes refulting from it, as having received its being from an independent
caufe.
I have, to the beft of my ability, endeavoured to illuftrate this occult procefs of
Nature, by means of the annexed copper-plate engraving, taken from the vifcera
and womb of an afflifited female, who fainted and died at the time of quickening,
the foetus itfelf being now preferved in fpirits. The ftru^lure of the gravid uterus
is, however, extremely difficult to be fliown, and the more fo under thefe peculiar
circumftances. In the w'ombs of women who die after this period, or at the time
of labour, or foon after delivery, fibres running in various directions are obferva-
ble more or lefs circular, that feem to arife from three diftinCl origins, namely, from
the place where the placenta adheres, and from the aperture and orifice of each of
the tubes; with all the veins and veffels communicating to and from the placenta
and the mother, furcharged with blood ;
but it is almoffc impoffible to demonftrate
'regular plans of velfels and fibres, continued any length, without an interruption
which involves us in doubt, and deftroys that view of the admirable connexion
which nature has formed between the vital organs of the mother and child in a ftate
of advanced pregnancy.
From the foregoing obfervations we may fafely conclude, that the mafs of blood
is the univerfal medium by which life is propagated, and health preferved, to every
clafs
^y//r t'/rZ/f'// />/</.
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 345
dafs of beings; and that, in its impure or infefted ftate, it is the fource from
whence the endlefs number of hereditary difeafes derive their origin. Whatever
fault impairs the parent blood, fails not to taint the tender habit of its young;
whence it has become an eftablifhed maxim, that, as healthy parents naturally
produce healthy children, fo difeafed parents as naturally produce a difeafed off-
fpring. Some of thefe difeafes appear in the earlieft infancy; others occur equally
at all ages ;
whilft others lurk unfufpefled in the habit to extreme old age, or even
to a new generation, flowly impairing the vital organs, and gradually undermining
the conftitution, before their fource, and fatal tendency, can poflibly be difcovered.
There are fome difeafes indeed, which, though born with us, cannot be faid to be
derived from the parent, as when a foetus receives fome hurt by an injury done
to the mother, while others, neither born with us nor having any foundation in
the conftitution, are fucked in with the nurfe’s milk. Let it then be the care of
every parent, who from fome local misfortune is fo far compelled to depart from
the ties of nature as to abandon her tender offspring to the breaft of another, to be
fatisfied, as far as human forefight and medical penetration can reach, that the
conftitution and blood of the nurfe are free from fcrophula and every other., hS.fe-
ditary impurity.
Accidental difeafes, though not derived from the parents, neverthelefs in general
fpring from the blood ;
which, conftituting or propagating animal life through every
part of the body, is neceflarily expofed to every external offending caufe, from
w'hich impreffion particular accidental difeafes enfue. The climate, itfelf, under
which people live, will often produce thefe affedlions in the blood ; and every par-
ticular climate hath more or lefs a tendency to produce a particular difeafe, either
from its excefs of heat or cold, or from the mutability of the weather. An im-
menfe number of difeafes are alfo produced in the blood by impure air, orfuch as
is loaded with putrid, marfliy, and other noxious vapours. The fame thing like-
wife happens from high-feafoned or corrupted aliment, whether meat or drink
;
though even the beft and moft nutritious aliment will hurt, if taken in too great a
quantity ;
not to mention poifons, which are endowed with fuch pernicious quali-
ties, that, even when taken in the fmalleft quantity, they produce the moft grievous
ferment in the blood, ending perhaps w’ith death itfelf. There are likewife other
accidents and dangers to which mankind are expofed, that ingraft innumerable
difeafes in the mafs of blood ;
fuch as the bite of venomous reptiles, or of a
mad dog; an injudicious inoculation or mis-treatment of the fmall-pox, or meafles
;
the pfora, or itch ;
the venereal infection ; alfo broken limbs, wounds, and contu-
No. 22. 4T fions;
3i6 A KEY TO PHYSIC
fions ;
which, though proceeding from an external caufe at firft, fail not to i[npair
theTlood, and often terminate in internal difeafes and premature death.
Man, however, is not left without defence againfi; fo many and fuch great dan-
gers. The human body is poffeffed of a moft wonderful power, by which it
preferves itfelf from difeafes, keeps off many, and in a very fliort time cures fomc
already begun, while others are by the fame means more flowly brought to a
happy conclufidn. This power, called the autrocrateia, ov vis medicatrlr nntura;,
is well known both to phyficians and philofophers, by whom it is rnoft juftly cele-
brated ;
for this alone is fufficient for curing many difeafes, and is of fervice in
all. Nay, even the beft medicines operate only by exciting and properly direct-
ing this expulfive force, by which the excrementitious humours from the aliments
and blood are expelled, through the proper channels of evacuation, through the
excretory du6ls, chiefly by means of the rnfenjibk perjpiration, by which power
the offending humours from the blood and juices are perpetually flying off. But
though phyficians juflly put confidence in this power, and though it generally cures
difeafes of a flighter kind, yet it is not to be thought that thofe of a more grievous
tendency are to be left to the unaffifled efforts of nature. Phyficians have there-
fore a two-fold error to avoid; namely, either defpifing the powers of the vis mc-
dicatrii' too much, which, if left alone, would work a radical and perfe6l cure; or,
putting too great confidence in thefe exertions of nature, they are left unfeconded
and alone, till the virulence of infedlion or difeafeundermines the conflitution, and
bears down all before it.
The grand and perpetual means by which the foul and offending humours in the
blood and juices are continually carried off, is undoubtedly through the perfpi-
rative pores and veffels, which it is highly compatible with found health to keep
open, and for w'hich purpofe medicaments are principally ufed. When this eva-
cuation is copious, and grofs enough to be difcerned by the eye, as in fweat, the
perfpiration is faid to he fenfible
;
but where it is fo volatile as to efcape the notice
of the fenfes, as is the cafe in the ordinary flate of the body, it is called hifenfible
perfpiration. —The veflels through 'which the perfpiration is performed lie obliquely
open under the fquamae or fcales of the cuticle or fcarf-fkin. They are inconceiv-
ably fmall; from a calculation of Leeuwenhoek it appears, that the mouths of
125,000 of tiicm may be covered with a common grain of fund. The mofl con-
fiderable of thefe pores are the orifices of the du6ts arifingfrom the miliary glands.
Through thefe veffels there is continually tranfuding a fubtle humour, from every
point of the body, and throughout the whole expanfe of the cuticle. The matter
evacuated this way is found by certain experience to be more than equal to tliat
evacuated
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 347
evacuated all the other ways, i. e. by ftool, urine, &c. Sandorious found in Italy,
linger the circutnftances of a moderate diet, middle age, and eafy life, that the
matter infenfibly perfpired was five-eighths of that which was taken in for food :
fo that there only remained three-eighths for nutrition, and for the excrements of
the nofe, ears, inteftines, bladder, &c.
The fame author fiiows, that as much is evacuated by infenfible perfpiratinn in
one day as by iloOl in fourteen days ;
particularly that, in the fpace of a night's
time, about fjxteen ounces are ordinarily difcharged by urine, four ounces by ftool,
and above forty ounces by infenfible perfpiration. He alfo obferves, that, if a
man eat and drink eight pounds in a day, five pounds of it are fpent in infenfible
perfpiration ;
and adds, as to the times, that within five hours after eating there is
perfpired about one pound; from the fifth to the twelfth hour about three pounds;
and from the twelfth to the fixteenth fcarcely half a pound. M. Dodart, from
a number of experiments made thirty-three years fuccelfively, proves that we
perfpire much more in youth than in age. In fome perfons the perfpiration is fo
copious, that they void very little of the coarfer excrements, though they eat hear-
tily. The bqpefits of infenfible perfpiration are fo great, that without it animal
life could not be preferved. The general caufe of perfpiration is the circulation
and heat of the blood, which enables it to throw off the offending matter. The
great fubtlety, equability, and plenty, of the matter thus perfpired, its increafe
after fleep, &c. eonftitute the grand fyraptoms of a perfe6l (late of health ;
and the
chief means of preferving the fame. On the contrary, the departing from thefe is
the firfl fure fign of approaching difeafe.
Perfpiration is performed, preferved, and increafed, by the vifcera, velfels, and
fibres; by motion or exercife as far as the firfl appearance of fweat; by moderate
ufe of venery ; by fleep of feven or eight hours, the body well covered, yet not
loaded with bed-clothes: cheerfulnefs ;
light, fermented, yet folid, food, not fat;
pure, not heavy, air, &c. The contraries of all thefe, as alfo the increafe of the
other excretions, diminifli, prevent, and deprave, it. Hence we fee the caufe and
effedt of this perfpirable matter, its ufe in preferving the parts foft and flexible,
and in fupplying what is loft; but chiefly in preferving the nervous papillae moift,
freflj, lively, and fit to be affedled by objedls, and to tranfmit their impreflions.
Hence it is, that upon a ftoppage of the ufual perfpiration there arife fo many in-
difpofitions, particularly fevers, agues, rheums, &c. Too much perfpiration oc-
cafions weaknefs, and fwoonings ;
vvhilft too little, or none at all, occafions the ca-
pillary velfels to dry, wither, and perifh. Hence alfo the larger emundlories come
to be obftrudled ;
hence the circulation is difturbed, fliarp humours letained; and
hence
348 A KEY TO PHYSIC
hence putridity, crudity, fevers, inflammations, and impofthumes. Cold prevents
perfpiration, by conftringing the pores of the fkin, and thickening the liquors cir-
culating in the cutaneous glands ;
lieat, on the contrary, augments it, both by
opening the excretory du6ls of the glands, and by increafing the fluidity and velo-
city of the humours. To determine the flate and condition of the perfpiration, fo
neceflary forjudging of thofe of the body, Sandlorious invented a weighing-chair,
whereby he examined the quantity, degree, &c. of perfpiration in feveral circum-
flances of the body, under feveral temperatures of the air, and in the feveral inter-
vals of eating, drinking, fleeping, &c.
Some of the more extraordinary phenomena obferved in this fpeculation, are, -
that, for fome time after eating, the perfpiration is leaft of all ;
that between the
fifth and twelfth hour after meals perfpiration is greatell; that riding either on
horfeback, in a coach, or fhip, &c. fwift motion on the ice, &c. but, above all, a
briik fridlion of the fkin, promote prefpiration furprifingly ;
and that perfpiration
is naturally always much lefs in women than in men. Perfpiration is influenced
by the paffions of the mind. Thus anger and joy increafe, and fear and fadnefs
letfen, both perfpiration and urine. Anger caufes a ffrong motionj»in the mem-
branes of the heart, and quickens its contradtion and dilatation, and thereby quic-
kens the contradlion and dilatation of the blood-veflels and fecerning dudls, and of
confequence increafes the difcharges of perfpiration and urine ;
and that more or
lefs, in proportion to the flrength and continuance of the paflion. Joy affedls
thefe difcharges in like manner as anger. In the paffions of fear and forrow, per-
fpiration and urine are leffened, by the depreffion of the adlivity of the foul under
thofe paffions. The proportion of perfpiration to urine is increafed by all thofe
exercifes which increafe the motion of the blood, and warm the fkin.
We have an account of a perfon who, by paffing many nights in aftronomical fpe-
culations, had his perfpiration fo obftrudted by the cold and damp of the air in Hol-
land, that a £hirt he had worn for five or fix weeks was as clean as if it had been
worn but one day. The confequence of this w’as, that he gathered fubcutaneous
waters; but was cured in time. The garments heft calculated to encourage and
promote infenfible pertpiration, to keep the mouths of the minute veflels open, and
to guard the body from the too fudden and violent effedls of cold, are thofe made
of flannel. Whence flannel fhirts and w’aiftcoats, or a fquare piece of flannel worn
over the breaft or pit of the flomach, particularly in the winter months, are produc-
tive of fuch beneficial effedls to w’eakiy and debilitated conflitutions, and act as a
valuable perfervative to the hale and robuft. In the annexed copper-plate engra-
ving, I have endeavoured to fhow the manner in which the infenfible perfpiration
ilfues
,b( .
'
5
'" .
: «
'
'
„
•
•
'
\ I
^
•_
'•‘>
_
-^ •- '.
,
! ,
^
-
_ ]
:" ^
r/'.j////
7J. -M ,/,f.
/At- , /,/ ,///>,/,
/ ,Ai /-ASt/'/i. /Jy..' ..V//^'
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 349
iiTues from the pores of the body, which can only be difcerned by means of a lens ;
being of fo volatile and fubtle a quality, that it palTes through our garments with
the utmoft eafe, particularly if woollen; and it even afcends through the bed-
clothes like a mill,- in the greateft abundance when we are afleep, and the animal
fun6tions are at reft.
In this manner Nature, from all cafual obftru6lions, endeavours to relieve her-
felf ;
and, fo long as difeafes are recent, and of a mild tendency, they are ufually
carried off by this means, without requiring any aid from medicine. When, how-
ever^ difeafes are of long ftanding, and the humours in the blood become too foul
and vifcous to be thrown off by the >ois medicatrLv natui'oe, the whole habit is
quickly vitiated, and the circulating mafs becomes morbid ;
yet even in this in-
fe6ted ftate, the vital heat and adtivity of the blood ftrives to purify itfelf, by deter .
mining thefe morbid particles to the fldn, where they form fcabs, ulcers, pimples,
and other fpots, as in the fcrophula, leprofy, fmall-pox, meafles, fyphilis, &c. or
elfe the virulent matter is dire6ted inwards, where falling upon the lungs and other
vifcera, death quickly enfues. Here then we may view the ftiocking confequences
which refult to thofe who enter into matrimony under a tainted or infected ftate
of the blood. Indeed perfons that are afflifted with the leprofy, fcrophula, or
king’s evil, ftiould never marry until a perfe<5l cure has been effe6ted, and a
pure and healthful ftate of the blood induced. To enter into wedlock under a
venereal taint, is a moft unwife, a moft cruel, and an ungenerous aft. A man with
only a flight infeftion, by contaft with the woman, will himfelf perhaps experience
a perfeft cure, in confequcnce of the foul and infeftious matter being drawn from
the parts of the female organs, feconded by the aftion of the rugae and abforbent
veffels on the furface of the vagina. But the unhappy female is fure to take the
diforder; and, ihould flie prove with child, the not only carries the poifonous in-
feftion into the marrow of her own bones, but brings an infant offspring into the
world, devoted to mifery and difeafs; for whatever foul or infeftious humour is
implanted in the parent blood, it is immediately carried by the circulation to the vital
organs of the child, juft as the flame of one candle is by contaft communicated to
another. Nor can we be furprifed at thefe things, if we only refleft on what has
already been adduced, and contemplate the fyftem and oeconomy of the human
frame. Confider only thg, powerful effefts of a few grains of cantharides, which,
if externally applied, aft as a burning cauftic ; but, if taken into the ftomach, in-
ftantly overturn the natural courfe of the circulation, by forcing the whole mafs of
blood into the extremities, but more particularly, with great vehemence and turgi-
dity, into the private parts ;
for which reafon cantharides are taken with intent to
No. 23. 4 U cure
350 A KEY TO PHYSIC
cure the weaknefs and debility of the penis ;
but the truth is, that greater debility,
and an emaciated conftitution, are fure to follow, and not unfrequently inftant
death.
If, then, fo powerful an efFe6l can be wrought on the blood by fwallowing a few
irritating particles of a (mall infedl, may we not juftly infer, that by infufing into
the circulating mafs particles congenial to itfelf, the utmoft relief may be afforded
to it, even in its moft depraved and inadtive ftate ? From this confideration alone,
we may venture to pronounce, that all diforders originating in the blood might
either be prevented or repelled, could fuch a medium be difcovered, by which we
might infufe immediately into the mafs a combination of fuch elemental principles
as the blood and juices themfelves confift of in their pureft and moft elaftic ftate ;
for this, in fadl, is the aim of all medicines ;
but which they mifs, by being admi-
niftered in their grofs form, and being obliged to pafs the feveral digeftive opera-
tions of the ftomach, before they can reach the blood, whereby the principal part
of their occult virtue is loft among the food, or fecreted in fuch fmall quantities as
to produce very little effedt. But a medium, poffefting thefe congenial principles,
ready digefted, and fo combined as to betaken inftantly, and without diminution,
into the habit, would not only keep the cruor and the ferum in due proportion,
which, is fo effential to health, but would ftimulate, corredl, purify, and augment,
the blood, as its reduced or difordered ftate might from time to time require. Such
a medium, after infinite labour, and unlimited experience, I pronounce the Solar
Tindture to be; and fuch will be found its operative effedls, under whatever circum-
ftances it may be adminiftered, in any climate or feafon ;
the innocent and bal-
famic qualities of which are as grateful to the internal organs of the human frame
as the folar rays are cheering to the external ;
and it affords me no fmall grati-
fication to affert, that, in offering it to the public, I invade no man’s property,
nor imitate any medicine at prefent known in public or private pradtice. —The expe-
riments I have made with it upon a variety of difeafed wretched objedts, exceed
belief ;
and I fliall ftill continue to adminifter it gratis to the poor, who are given
over by others, or who have not the means of applying for medical affiftance.
The infinite variety of complaints an impure or infedled ftate of the blood in-
duces, almoft exceeds belief ;
and hence the new and deceptive forms a fcrophulous
or fcorbutic taint puts on, which often deceive the mo/l eminent of the faculty,
and baffle the beft intention towards a cure. An impure or fcrophulous taint will
invade the nobleft organs of the human frame, before the patient can be aware of
his danger. In the firft ftage of its vifible effedls, a weary pain feizes the joints and
mufcles, attended with a wafting of the legs and loins. In the fecond ftage, the
gums fwell, grow painful, hot, and irritable, and bleed upon the flighteft preffure
;
the
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 561
the roots of the teeth become bare and loofe, and the breath naufeous. In the
third ftage, the gums grow putrid, the teeth black and rotten, the fublingular veins
become varicofe, and the breath cadaverous; foetid blood diftils from the lips,
gums, mouth, nofe, lungs, ftomach, liver, fpleen, pancreas, inteftines, womb, kid-
neys, See. fcabs and ulcers breakout in all parts of the body; and the joints, bones,
and vifeera, become morbid. In the fourth ftage, putrid, eruptive, and fpotted,
fevers, enfue, which end in an atrophy; or elfe follow diarrhoeas, dyfentery, drop-
fy, confumption, palfy, contradlions, melancholy, and all the long and direful
train of nervous diforders, which to deferibe would fill a volume.
To counteraft this inoft virulent of all chronic complaints, the utmoft exertions
of human (kill have been employed. The remedies preferibed in its different ftages
are almoft innumerable. The objedl is to reduce the virulence of theinfe6lion, and
to- eradicate its feeds from the blood and lymph ;
to which end the mildeftand moft
fimple medicines are recommended. Mineral and tar waters, for their warm and
ftimulating quality ;
milk or whey, from their fimilitude to the chyle ;
the cold bath,
for bracing the folids and quickening the circulation ;
anlifcorbutic vegetables,
&c. for purging and fweetening the blood, fuch as feurvy-grafs, water-creffes,
wormwood, hemlock, centaury, vervain, water-trefoil, juniper-berries, the'Peru-
vian bark, faffatras, guaiacunj, aloes, afla-feetida, camomile, diafeordium, faffron,
fenna, rhubarb, manna, iEchiop’s mineral, hartftiorn, native cinnabar, antimony.
See. When thefe fail, mercury, or a mercurial falivation, is looked upon as the
only cure ;
which, in fadf, is but to give the human frame its laft vehement
fhock, and to fend the wretdied patient in agonies to the grave !
The intention of all thefe remedies is to impregnate the blood with qualities op-
pofite to thofe with which it is infedted ;
and this muft be done in a fuperior degree
of force and power, before a cure can be completed. But thefe medicaments are
often adminiftered under fuch naufeous forms, and in fo crude and unqualified a
ftate, that they not only torture the patient, but mifs entirely their intended aim.
The naufeous tafte of medicine is nothing but its groffer particles ;
which, in-
ftead of entering the ftomach, to irritate and opprefs its organs, ought to be
drawn off by chemical procefs ;
for it is the occult virtue of every drug, not its
groffer part, that perforins the cure. Novv the peculiar excellence of the Solar
Tindlure is, that it combines the effentiai and occult virtues of all the fcorbutic
vegetables, ready digefted, concodfed, purified, -and refolved into an elegant bal-
famic effence, pleafing to the tafte and grateful to the ftomach. It flies im-
mediately to the heart, whether internally or externally applied, blends and aftimi-
lates with the venal and arterial blood, which it generates, corre<ft:s, warms, pu-
rifies,
354 A KEY TO PHYSIC
dry, and fometimes moift, fcabs and tumours on the fkin. Being negledted, it at
length pervaded the whole fyftem, till, turning inwardly, it fell upon his lungs, and
reduced him to the laft ftage of a confumption. In this deplorable ftate, given
over by the faculty, left totally emaciated, and incapable of turning in his bed, he
fortunately had recourfe to the Solar Tindlure. The firft dofe was given undiluted^
which threw him into a fine perfpiration, and compofed him to fleep, which had
long been a ftranger to his eyes. After one large bottle had been adminiftered,
agreeablb to the bill of diredtions, at the end of a week he was fo much reftored,
that with very little affiftance he was enabled to put on his own clothes; and, after
continuing the medicine for little more than a month, he was able to walk abroad.
And now, after having continued the Tindlure night and morning, and occafion*
ally ufing it as a beverage made fimilar to warm brandy and water, he has quite
recovered his former health andflrength ;
being, to the furprife of every body who
beheld him in his late emaciated condition, as robuft and as hearty as it is well
poffible for a man to be.
DEBILITATED, TAINTED, and ENFEEBLED, CONSTITUTIONS.
MUSCULAR debility was a misfortune but little known to our forefathers.
Whether immured in venereal embraces, or facrificing at the flirine of Bacchus,
moderation and feafonable hours diredied the meafure of their enjoyment. If re-
velry or voluptuoufnefs by chance unftrung their nerves, gymnaftic exercifes and
field-fports, or the more pleafurable delights of the chace, quickly reftored them
to their proper tone,—gave new vigour to the blood,—health to the cheek,—and
lighted up afrefti the flame, of love. But now, how ftrange is the rererfe. Ha-
bituated to effeminacy, and fed with dainties,-—revelling all night with wine, and
ftretched on beds ofdown all day,—ftiut up in ftews and brothels, fcarcely breath-
ing wholefome air,—clafped in the arms of tainted or difeafed females, until en-
joyment palls upon the fenfes, and the mufcular powers abfolutely refufe their
office ;
—no wonder fo many men are found old in every thing but years ;
whofe
conftitutions are fairly worn down, blood ftagnant, folids relaxed, fccretions di-
verted from their proper courfe, mufcles debilitated, eyes funk, cheek pallid, and
fpirits gone. Thefe are not half the evils refulting from this fafhionable fource of
deftrudlive folly. It may not be amifs, however, to defcribe the remarkable cafes
of a few, of whom the Solar Tindlure has made perfedf cures, by infufing a new
portion of health into the mafs of blood ;
fincerely hoping, that a more wife and
manly courfe of life will fhortly eradicate thefe difgraceful complaints, and reftore
to the ladies a genuine race of Englifhmen and Britons.
CASES.
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES.
CASES.
Tremature DEBiLiTY.-r-A gentleman in the army, under thirty years of
age, complained to me that be had all at once become incapable of enjoying his
mje. Sufpecling the nature of his diforder, I defired him to be open and candid,
to relate to me his real fituation, and not a pretended one, which was only to im-
pofe on his own underHanding. He thanked me for the rebuke—faid he would
he frank, and in a few words declared, That from exceffive lull, and continual de-
bauch, he had loft his virility ; and, to add to the misfortune, he was on the eve
of being married. In other refpedls he felt no diminution in his health or confti-
tution; and, from external appearances, this was furely the laft imperfedlion that
could have been fufpedted. His complexion was vigorous and lively, his flelli
firm, and conformation excellent; yet, notwithftanding this, he was impotent to
fuch a degree, that neither the ftrength of his own delires, nor the excitations of
the female, could affedt the part. It often happens, that, though the organs remain
found, yet, if the nervous and feminal fluids have degenerated from a healthful
Hate—if they are impoveriflied by being too much drained, or turned into an un-
natural courfe—they cannot then perform their office, by reafon that their moving
powers and ftimulus on the blood are become too weqjs^ diredl their force and
adlion in the manner nature requires in the adt of copulation. I therefore en-^
joined him, to abftain entirely from all attempts of the kind, for three months at
leaft; diredted the ointment as in p. 240 ofthe Medical Part of this work, with the
Solar Tindture three times a-day for two months ;
then twice a-day, until he found
It no longer neceffary. After taking fix large, bottles, he generoully thanked me
for a more hale and rol)uft ftate of body than he ever remembered to have enjoyed
before. He has fince fent me feveral patients, in almoft as debilitated a ftate as
himfelf, who are now ready to unite with him in giving full teftimony to the reno*
vating powers and peculiar efficacy of the Solar Tindlure.
A RELAXED HABIT.
LITTLE more than three months ago, a gentleman, about fifty years of age,
lately returned from the Eaft-Indies, applied to me for the cure of what he termed
a broken conjlitution. He had made very free with the fable beauties of Bengal
—had undergone a mercurial falivation, and appeared to be finking under an uni-
verfal languor and debility of the whole mufcular fyftem. The fphindter of the
bladder was fo weakened, that the urinary fecretion came from him by drops, in
fo perpetual and involuntary a manner, as not to be perceived until the moifture
of one fet of cloths became fo fenfibly afflidling. as made it neceffary to fupply
* freffe
356 A KEY TO PHYSIC
frefh ones, which ufually happened every hour. The corporeal fundlions w^ere .
diffipated and relaxed, the tone of the ftomach and vifcera was nearly gone, the
tremulous nerves reludlantly performed their office, and the circulation was become
ftasnant and morbid. I advifed an immediate recourfe to the moft nouriffiins
O O
food, with flrong port-wdne negus for his drink, and the Solar Tindlure to be taken
four times a-day for the lirft month ;
three times a-day for the fecond month, and
once or twice a-day afterwards, as occafion might feem to render neceffary. Be-
fore the expiration of twenty days, the fphinfter mufcle acquired its proper tone,
the pulfe became ftrong and regular, and the nervous tremors w'ere confiderably
abated. By the end of the fecond month, a renovation of the whole animal oeco-
nomy feemed to have taken place, and a vifible accumulation of the blood and
juices had retrieved the circulation. Before the expiration of three months, I had-
the gratification to fee this patient completely reftored to fuch a ftate of bodily
health and flrength, as utterly aftonifiied himfelf, after taking only eight large
bottles of the Solar Tindlure.
HYPOCHONDRIACAL DEBILITY, or WEAK NERVES:
A GENTLEMAN in Oxfordihire lately came to town on purpofe to confult
me in his complaint, appeared to be near thirty years of age, of middling
ftature, but of a weakly conflitution. He had for upw'ards of feven years paft paid
his addreffes to a lady, whom he had long promifed, and very much defired, to.-
marry; but, whenever lie propofed in his mind to fix the day, or whenever it hap-
pened that he attempted to falute or embrace her, he was feized with an unaccount-
able tremor of the whole body, his fpirits funk, his virility left him, and a violent
palpitation of the heart enfued. In fhort, he was fo dillruftful of his own powers, that
he confeifed it w'as the fear of not being able to per form the rites of the marriage-bed
that had been the real and the foie caufe of thus protracting his wedding-day..
This is certainly a moft fingular inftance of the hypochondriacal affedtion, and of
its derangement of the nervous fyftem. The debility induced by it, feems to arife
from the weaker energy of the brain, the fault of which, however, cannot bedetedted
by the niceft anatomift. For this reafon, we do not we.l knov/ how fuch defedl ftiould
be reftored; but as nature, feemingly for this purpofe, excites the motion of the heart
and arteries, we muft afcribe the continuance of fuch debility to the too-weak reac-
tion of the fanguiferous fyftem. The heart wall generally pal{)itate from a.violent exr
eitement of the nerves, efpecially when the blood is endowed with, too fmall a fhare
of ftimulus. Hence palpitation from any affedtion of the mind, and from hyfterics:
in women. Under whatever circumftancesthis hypochondriacal affedlion happens,-
it debilitates the whole animal machine, and renders the perfon unable to perform
the proper offices of life. The proftration of fpirits, weaknefs, and languor, are
often .
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 357
often furprifinglygreat, though the pulfe feeins tolerably ftrong, as being heightened
by animal defire. The effect, however, is fure to produce a languid circulation,
the blood feeming to adhere, with uncommon energy, about the region of the
heart. I fufpe6l it is in thefe cafes that cantharides are moft frequently ufed. The
patient acknowledged, after feme hefitation, that he had tried them ;
but they only
produced an involuntary though violent ere6tion, by no means adapted to the
cure, nor to the purpofe he intended. Hence this remedy is not only inadequate,
but extremely dangerous ;
for it too much exhaufts the vital powers, and is follow-
ed by a vaft dejection of fpirits, tremors, ftartings of the tendons, &c. which bring
on rigours, cold clammy fweats, fyncope, and often premature death.
The means, therefore, which nature points out for the cure of this fpecies of
debility, are dire6led to fupport and increafe the a6lion of the blood through the
heart and arteries ;
and the remedies to be employed are tonics and flimulants. Of
all the flimulants, which in this conflitutional defeat may be advantageoufly em-
ployed, port-wine feems to be the mofl eligible. It has the advantage of being
grateful to the palate and flomach, and of having its ftimulant parts fo much di-
luted, that it can be conveniently given at all times and feafons, and may be em-
ployed with fufficient caution; but it is of little fervice unlefs taken pretty large-
ly.—It may be fufpefted that wine has an operation analagpus to that of opium
;
and on good grounds. But we can diflin6lly mark its ftimulant power only
;
which renders its effects in the phrenitic delirium manifeftly hurtful, but in cafes
of debility as remarkably ufeful.—Hence I dire6led the Solar Tin6lure to be taken
morning, noon, arid night, in ftrong dofes, for the firft month ; once a-day, or
oftener, at the difcretion of the patient, until the end of the third month ;
but to
drink every day after (|inner, a pint of generous port; and to inform me at intervals
the change he might find in his conftitution. He took with him a dozen large
bottles of the Solar Tinfture; and before a month elapfed, I had the pleafure of
receiving an epiftle of unfeigned thanks. He found himfelf fo much reftored by
the courfe I laid him under, that, before the expiration of the three months, he
married the lady ;
and I have no douht will very fhortly have iflue.—I have been
fomewhat more elaborate in defcribing the particulars of this cafe, having reafon
to believe it is not an uncommon malady ;
and w’ould therefore wifti to enable
every patient to become as much as pofiible a judge of his owm infirmity.
NOCTURNAL EMISSIONS, or INCONTINENCE of the SEMEN.
A YOUNG man, of robuft make, and in the prime of life, being under twenty-
fix years of age, applied to me for relief in the above unfortunate complaint. It
appeared, that, from the time of puberty, he had found a weaknefs in the part, and
No. S3. 4 y an
558 A KEY TO PHYSIC
an occafional difcharge of the feed, upon the flighteft irritation. As he grew up
to greater maturity, the malady increafed upon him. Upon every attempt to have
contadl with a female, femen palfed involuntarily from him, before even a com-
plete eredlion could take place, whereby his purpofe was continually defeated.
This defedl grew upon him, until the bare fight or thought of any thing which
tended to excite venereal delires brought away the feed ;
yet it had no affinity
whatever to a gleet, becaufe the emiffion never occurred but either in the attempt
or in the defire of copulation, or under the influence of lafcivious dreams. In
proportion as this weaknefs grew upon him, his defire of familiarity with the fex
became the fironger ;
and, I am inclined to think, was the principal reafon of the
increafe of the malady, and of the nodlurnal emiffions, which happened more or
lefs every time he w^ent to lleep. This inceflant difcharge had reduced him to a
meagre vifage, fallow complexion, hollow eyes, depreffion of fpirits, and flow' fever j
and a galloping confumption would foon have followed. I diredled the Solar Tinc-
ture every morning at fun-rifing, at mid-day, and at fix o’clock in the afternoon,
in the quantity of a wine-glafs full, with one-third warm water ;
and every night
at going to bed, twenty drops of liquid laudanum, for the purpofe of making his
fleep too ftrong to be aftedled by the influence of dreams. This courfe, affifted by
a ftrengthening regimen of calf’s-foot jelly, veal- broth, and ftrong port-wine
negus, had very quickly the defired effeft. His fleep was perfedfly found and
calm, and, after the firft night, he could not recolledl: the return of any nodlurnal
emiffion. The ftrengthening ointment, directed in page 240 of the Medical Part
of my work, was ufed every other morning ;
and within the fpace of only two
months, the feminal veflels were completely braced up, and the diforder fo to-
tally removed, as not to leave a fingle fymptom of his former weaknefs^
O N A N I S M.
A YOUTH, apparently under age, applied to me for the cur# of a diforder,
which, he faid, had deprived him of the power of eredlion, and of all fenfation in
the privities. In fo young a fubjedl, I could not fuppofe this want of tone to arife
from a general debility of the nervous fyftem, particularly as no other fymptoms
warranted the conclufion. I had a ftrong fufpicion it was the effedl of Onanifm, or
fecret venery, which ufually ends in this fpeciesof abfolute impotency ;
but this he
denied. He told me he had fome time ago contradled the foul diftemper, and
through fliame, and the dread of its coming to the knowledge of his friends, he
had negletfted to difclofe his misfortune to any perfon, until the prefent malady was
brought on. Of the foul diftemper, however, I could find no other fymptom tham
a Ample gleet ;
and, upon putting the neceflary queftions, not a fingle reply corre-
fponded;
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. S59
fponded with the ufual efFe6ts of that diforder. After half an hour’s clofe exami-
nation, I brought him to confefs what I above fufpefted, that he had fo much
addidled himfelf to this lliameful and deftrudtive vice, that the ferninal veffels were
completely relaxed ;
the eredtories, the nerves, and glans, of the penis, had en-
tirely loft their tone ;
an involuntary difcharge of the femen, without irritation, or
turgidity of the parts, had long taken place, and brought on a want of appetite,,
an impoveriftied ftate of the blood, and an univerfal laftitade of the body. The
ledture I gave him upon this occafion, will never, I truft, be effaced from his me-
mory ;
and he has ftnce faithfully promifed that it lhall not. I diredted the ftrength-
ening eledtuary and ointment, in page 239 and 240 of the Medical Part of this
Work, to be ufed as therein prefcribed ;
then to take,, four times a-day, a table-
fpoonful of the Solar Tindlure in an equal quantity of warm water, for a month at
leaft; then three times, a-day for the fecond month, and twice a-day, in cold fpring-
water, for the two months following ;
which gradually coiled up the debilitated
parts, gave elafticity to the blood, retrieved the fenfation of the glans, and the
fympathetic office of the eredtories, braced the nerves, ligaments, and tendons, and
gave that due tone and energy to the mufcular fyftem, which in lefs than four
months reftored the patient to perfedt health and vigour.
An impure or TAINTED HAIbIT.
THIS malady, fo common among our diffipated youth, generally arifes from ai
venereal complaint badly cured. Indeed the fcrophula, the king’s evil, the
leprofy, and other foul humours, when too long fuffered to prey upon the blood,
will naturally induce this confequence ;
yet ninety-nine cafes out of every hundred,,
are found to refult from the improper ufe of mercury, either taken too abun-
dantly into the ftomacb, or too often applied externally, in the venereal difeafe. A
gentleman in the militia very lately came to me under this misfortune, w'ho had'
abfolutely worn down the organs of his ftomach by taking medicines for its cure,
without obtaining the fmalleft relief. He was no fooner warm in bed, than deep-
feated nodturnal pains attacked his arms, thins, and head, which many of the faculty
miftook for rheumatifm. The membranes, mufcles, and ligaments, of the joints,
were fcarcely ever free frOm pain ;
whilft carious ulcers occationally broke out up-
on the ulna, tibia, and bones of the cranium. Thefe fymptoms had alfo deceived
feveral of the faculty, who, taking his complaint to be a confirmed lues, ftill added
to the malady, by loading him with freth dofes of mercury. The truth is, that
this diforder was by no means of a venereal nature, but was rather the confequence
of the remedy than of the difeafe; fince it arofe entirely from the long and repeated
dofes of mercury his body had fuftained, and which was grounded in his habit by
falivation*
S60 A KEY TO PHYSIC
falivation. The mercury had infmuated itfelf into the marrow of his bones, had
vitiated every fluid fecretion, and tainted the very air he breathed. Under fuch
s circumflances I will allow, it is very difficult, if not almofl impoffible, for a phyfi-
cian, upon a fuperficial infpedtion, abfolutely to decide, whether the original dif-
eafe hath been altogether overcome ;
yet furely he ought attentively to diftinguilh
and confider the feveral fymptoms apart ;
and then, by comparing them with each
other, a clear judgment may be formed upon the general review. Finding, by this
method, the real ftate of the patient’s cafe, I ordered him a nourifliing diet, gentle
exercife, and an abfolute denial of the fmallefl; intercourfe with women. To this he
readily fubmitted, putting himfelf under a regular courfe of the Solar Tin<5lure,
which he took three times a-day, in the quantity of a wine-glafs three parts full, fil-
led up with warm water, for the firfl; month. At the expiration of this time he paid
me a vifit, when his company was infinitely agreeable, becaufe the pleafingo-
dour of health had fuperfeded the naufeous effluvia of his difeafe. I now only enjoin-
ed him to follow the fame regimen and abstemious mode of living for a month or two
longer, taking the Tincture diluted in a glafs of cold fpring-wateronce or twice a-day^
as he might find himfelf inclined. This he rigidly attended to ;
and I have now the
pleafure to declare, that only nine large bottles of the Solar Tindture have reftored
this gentleman from the^moft dangerous and deplorable ftate of a tainted and cor-
rupted habit, to found health, and a renovated ftate of the blood and juices.
A TAINTED HABIT m a STATE of PREGNANCY.
THIS is the moft fhdcking cafe my pra6tice or experience ever produced. The
patient was taken in labour, and in the a6l of parturition, the child prefented its
right arm, which feparated from the body, while the operator was returning it into
the womb. The life of the mother being defpaired of, I was fent for ;
when, on
infpedlion, I quickly perceived conception had taken place under an infedted ftate
of one of the parents. I performed the refidue of the operation myfelf, and brought
away the foetus without a further feparation of the joints, but with great difficulty,
fince itw’as ulcerated and half rotten with difeafe. By a moft tender and judicious
treatment of the woman, aflifted by the Lunar Tindture, her life was preferved
;
and in the fpace of five weeks ftie appeared to have regained her health and ftrength;
when, to the aftoniftiment of every one, flie fell into a violent falivation. Being
fent for upon this lingular occafion, I thought it right to interrogate the hulband
;
when, after a vaft deal of hefitation and dilfembling, he confefled having had con-
ne61;ion with his wife under a venereal infeftion ;
and, with a view to prevent the
confequences, he had prevailed on her to fwallow ftrong dofes of mercury, which I
have reafon to fuppofe lay dormant in the body until after her delivery ;
when the
' '
efforts
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 361
efforts of nature being no longer direfted to the prefervation of the child, fuffered
the mercury to attack the falival glands, and to produce the effedt we have juft
defcribed. I ordered her a fpare but nouriftiing diet ,* worked off the mercury in
the cuftomary way, and then began a courfe of the Solar Tindture. A table-fpoon-
ful, in an equal quantity of warm water, was taken four times a-day for the firft
week; then three times a-day until the end of the month; afterwards twice a-day
in cold fpring-water for a month longer ; and then once or twice a-day, or every
other day, as the patient found convenient; by this means flie happily experienced
a complete cure in lefs than three months, and now enjoys a perfedt ftate of health,
defirous of certifying the fadt to any unfortunate female, who, under ftmilar circum-
ftances, wilhes to call upon me for that purpofe. Indeed every woman, who has
the misfortune to fufpedt even the fmalleft taint of a ftmilar nature to be lurking
in her blood, fliould put herfelf under a courfe of the Solar Tindture, and perftft
in it every night and morning, in the quantity of a table-fpoonful diluted in a wine-
glafs of cold fpring-water, during the whole nine months ftate of pregnancy.
The above cafe brings to my recolledtion a very Angular inftance of an accidental
falivation, brought upon a young lady by a foreign fubftance irritating one of the
parotid glands ;
the particulars of which I ihall here infert, for the fake of thofe
who may happen to be under ftmilar circumftances.—In the month of April, 1751,
a young lady, about the age of ftxteen years, of a delicate habit, but fubjedt to no
particular complaints, perceived the beginning of a difeafe which afterwards proved
moft obftinate and loathfome, viz. an inceffant fpitting. The quantity of this dif-
charge was different at different times, varying from one pint to two pints and a
half in twenty-four hours. As to its quality, it feemed to be no other than the
ordinary fecretion of the falival glands. By fo large and conftant an evacuation,
her ftrength became extremely impaired ;
and the moft efficacious medicines had
proved ufelefs. She had taken large quantities of the Peruvian bark, both alone
and combined with preparations of iron ;
and afterwards the fetid gums, opium,
amber, alum, and the Neville-Holt water, had in fucceffton been given her. In
the mean time an exaft regimen had been prefcribed, ftie had been ordered to ride
conftantly ;
and td confine herfelf to a mucilaginous diet, fuch as veal, calves’ feet,
&c. Likevvifs a gently-opening medicine had now and then been interpofed. The
difeafe ftill continued unaltered ;
ftie had afterwards tried the tinfiura faturnina ;
and had, at the fame time, been encouraged to chew the Peruvian bark, and to
fw,allow the faliva. But all thefe attempts had been vain ;
and after ftie had taken
fome or other of the medicines above-mentioned until the end of September, 1753,
namely, above two years, it appeared to her pbyftcian. Sir George Baker, unrea-
fonable to expedl relief in fuch a cafe from any internal medicines whatever. Ke
No. 23. 4 Z now
A KEY TO PHYSIC
Z63,
now conceived a fufpicion, that fome extraneous body, having accidentally found
its way into the meatus anditorius, might poflibly be the caufe of this extraordi-
nary fecretion, by keeping up a continued irritation in the parotid glandSo With
this view he examined her ears, and extracted from them a quantity of fetid wool.
How, or when, it came thither, no account could be given. To this fubftance he
attributed the beginning of the falivation, notwithftanding that the difeafe did not
immediately abate on the removal of the wool; as it appeared to be no improbable
fuppolition that the difcharge might be continued by the force of habit, though
the original caufe no longer remained. It feemed therefore expedient to introduce
fome other habit, in the place of the increafed fecretion of faliva; w hich habit
might afterwards be gradually left off. With this intention, he prevailed on the
patient to chew perpetually a little dry bread, and to fwallow it w ith her fpittle.' In
a few w'eeks, it became neceffary for her to chew the bread only at certain hours in
the day; and thus, after two months, flie became entirely free from a moft dif-
guflful and tedious diforder. It is worthy of obfervation, that, at firft, the fwal-
lowing of fo much faliva frequently occafioned a naufea; and that then, for a few
hours, fhe was obliged to fpit it out as ufual; and that, during the greateft part
of the time, when die chewed the bread, lire had a ftool or two every day more
than common.
TABES DORSALIS, or CONSUMPTION of the BACK.
A YOUNG gentleman, twenty-tw o years of age, applied to me in the abovft
diforder, which had worn him down to a mere fkeleton. The tabes is feldom dif-
tinguiilied by any remarkable fever, cough, or difficulty of breathing ; but is attend-
ed with want of appetite, a weak digeftion, and a morbid ffate of the blood, whence
the body grows languid, and wafies by degrees. Sometimes this fpecies of con-
fumption is brought on by a venereal ulcer ;
but it mofi: commonly proceeds from
excefiive evacuations of the femen, which was the cafe with this patient. He had
too early addidled himfelf to an intercourfe with lewd w'omen, wbich eventually
brought on an involuntary fiiedding of the feed, which came from him on the lead;
exertion, whether pf walking, riding, lifting a weight, or even of pulling off his
clothes."—I ordered him a ftrong nutritious diet, with a table-fpoonful of the Solar
Tindlure four times a-day, in the fame quantity of warm water, which he purfued
for a month. He found his flrength was fo much recovered, that I could fafely
advife moderate exercife both on horfeback and on foot. The gleet, however, was
uncommonly obftinate ;
and the Tindture was continued for the fecond month in
the fame quantity. By this time the parts were confiderably braced ;
he could run
pr jump without perceiving the fmalleft emiffion ;
and the healthful colour of his
cheek
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 365
cheek began to return,—He now perfifted in the Tinfture, only three times a-day,
for a month longer; after which the dofe was reduced to night and morning for
another month ;
he then took it twice a-day for two months more, at the end of
which period every fymptom of the complaint was removed, he had fully recovered
his flefli and ftrength ;
and now preferves it by taking the 'Solar Tindture as a
beverage, made after the manner of brandy and water. This diforder has in gene-
ral been deemed incurable. It is true, that even in its early attacks, it is fo eflen-
tially neceffary to abftain from venereal embraces, that, without it, the bed remedies
will prove altogether ufelefs ;
hence the tabes dorfalis fo often proves mortal, be-
eaufe the patient has feldom refolution enough to difpenfe witli his amours.
RHEUMATIC UOUT.
THIS difeafe is generally brought on by alternate heats and colds in the Wood,
whereby a humour is produced which attacks the joints and mufcles, fometimes
accompanied wuth difcol orations and fwellings, and at other times without either;
but it is always attended with excruciating pain. Mr. John Brandham, of Brid-
lington Quay, was attacked in this manner ;
when, after fome time, the fevere pain
of his joints, falling into his legs and thighs, deprived him of the ufe of his limbs,
and confined him entirely to his bed. He was foon after feized with a violent pain
in his head and domach, which fo much affe6ted his refpiration, that inftant death
was expected. In this extremity, half a wine-'glafs of the Solar Tindlure was ad-
minidered, undiluted, which removed the danger, and gave his domach immediate
eafe. A table fpoonful, in the fame quantity of warm water, was then given every
third hour during the fucceeding day and night, by which the pains were con-
fiderably abated. He continued the medicine four times a-day for a month long^
;
at the expiration of which time he experienced a perfedl cure, and has never dnce
found the fmalled return of his complaint ;
of which he is defirous of fatisfying
any enquirer, who choofes to apply for that purpofe.
AGUES, CONVULSIONS, CHOLIC, BLOODY-FLUX, and violent
SPASMS IN THE STOMACH and BOWELS.
DURING the fit, let one or two table-fpoonfuls of the Solar Tin6lure, undduled^
be adminidered fuccellively, as the extremity of the cafe may require; and after-
wards let the patient continue the medicine, night and morning, in the quantity
of a table-fpoonful in a wine-glafs of warm water, or oftener, as the obdinacy of
the cafe may render necelTary, and in a very Ihort time a perfe6t cure will be ex-
perienced ; a few indances of which I Ihall add, in the words of thofe who have
tranfmitted me the faO:s,
To
364 A KEY TO PHYSIC
To E. SIBLY, M. D.
SIR,—A few nights ago, I was attacked in bed wkh a violent pain in my ftomach
and bowels, which alternately produced fuch a fucceffion of convulfive fpafins and
cold chills, that I really thought I was feized for death. Fortunately a bottle of
your Solar Tinfture was in the houfe, purchafed the day before by my fon, of which
my fervant gave me a table-fpoon*ful and a half, unmixed with water. The iuftant
effect it had on my ftomach, I could only compare to electricity ;
for, to the aftonifli-
ment of all about me, the fpafms inftantly ceafed, a gentle perfpiration came on, in
which Rate I fell afleep, and did not awake till the morning, when I found myfelf
entirely free from pain. On getting up, I took a fpoonful more of the TinCture
in an equal quantity of warm water ;
and have not fince experienced the fmallefi:
return of the diforder. Requefling you will make this known, for the benefit of
others, I remain, with grateful efteem, &c.
No. 25, Philpot-lane, Fcndiurch-Jireet, Feb. 12. M. ARMSTRONG.
To E. SIBLY, M. D.
SIR,—In gratitude, I cannot but thank you for that excellent medicine, the
Solar TinClure. It has faved my life. I was fuddenly feized with a violent cholic,
which brought on a mortification of the bowels. The efforts of the faculty were'
tried in vain, and I was given over. In thefe moments of extremity, my exiftence'
was preferved by only two fpoonfuls of your medicine, undiluted, which inftantly
relieved me from the rack of torture. After two more dofes, the obftruCtion wa&-
removed by natural evacuation, and a few hours reftored me to my ufual ftate of
good health. I intreat you to publifh this for the public good, and fliall be ever
gratefully your’s,
Clifton, near Brijlol, Feb. 24, JOHN POWELL.
To E. SIBLY, M. D.
SIR,—Actuated by a principle of gratitude, I cannot omft acquainting you of
an extraordinary cure performed on me by means of your Solar TinCture,—I had
for fome time been affliCted with the dyfentery or bloody-flux, and was reduced to
a very weak and languid ftate, without deriving any benefit from the prefcriptions
of the faculty. This induced me to make trial of your Solar TinCture; when,
after taking only two fmall bottles, I found myfelf perfectly recovered ; therefore,
by publifhing this to the world, you will confer a favour on your grateful, &c.
WILLIAM JACKSON.
No. 8, IVindmill-Jireet, Tottenham-court’road, May 1 5.
DISEASES
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. '
365
DISEASES OF THE BREAST and LUNGS, ASTHMA, DROPSY, or
CONSUMPTION.
TAKE one fpoonful of the Tin6lure, night and morning, for twenty days fuc-
ceffively, diluted in two fpoonfuls of cold fpring-water ;
then reduce it to the fame
dofe every other day, which will in general remove the malady in the courfe of a
month; but, if the dropfy or confumption have been far advanced, it will be necef-
fary to continue the medicine for one, two, or even three, months longer, reducing
the number of dofes in proportion as health and ftrength appear to return, and as
the blood fhall have refumed its proper confiftency, and a brifker circulation. In
thefe complaints, it will not be amifs to take the Tincture in a tumbler of warm
water, as a beverage, for fome time after the cure is perfe6ted, as it will infallibly
prevent the blood from returning to its watery and impoveriflied ftate, and will
rarefy and expel the vifcid cohefions in the pulmonary velfels. In thefe diforders,
the Solar Tin6ture-may be fafely admiftered to females even during obflrudlions
of the catamenia, as hath lately been experienced by perfecting an admirable cure
on a lady in Grafton-Ilreet.
This lady was affliCted with obftruCtions of the liver and fpleen, infomuch that
fhe could not walk up one pair of ftairs without much pain, and fhortnefs of breath*
Her menfes were obftruCted ;
and twice or thrice a-day die was attacked with afth-
matic fpafms, accompanied with febrile fymptoms. This affliction being of a pecu-
liar nature, I was obliged to prefcribe both the Solar and Lunar TinCtures, in the
following manner : Whenever the fever came on, die took a dofe of the Solar Tinc-
ture; and every morning and evening, fixty drops of the Lunar TinCture in a gill
of mugwort tea ;
and in twenty-one days die was perfectly recovered, and reftored
to her ufual colour and vivacity, to the great joy of her parents and friends.
MENTAL DEPRESSION, or LOWNESS of SPIRITS.
THIS may be confidered the primary diforder of the nervous train; and, if redded
in time, may in mod cafes be eafily cured. For this purpofe take a table-fpoonful
of the Solar TinCture, diluted in a wine-glafs of cold fpring-water, every forenoon
at eleven or twelve o’clock, for fourteen fucceffive days; then ufe it in every two or
three days for a month ,
and the complaint will be entirely removed, as all patients
will fenfibly feel, by their alertnefs, aCtivity, and unufual flow of natural fpirits;
of which the following cafe may ferve as an example :
To E. SIBLY, M. D.
SIR,—From a full conviction of the efficacy of your Solar TinCture, I cheerfully •
come forward to inform you, that, having been much afflicted with depreffion of
No. fil4. 5 A fpirits.
366 A KEY TO PHYSIC
fpirits, a nervous tremor, and palpitation of the heart, (owing, I believe, to clofe
application to ftudy, and much profeflional duty,) I have lately experienced a
perfe6l cure, by taking one large bottle of your medicine. Impreffed, therefore,
with a fenfe of gratitude to God and you, and having a certain knowledge of
many other cures performed by your Tincture, I do hereby requeft this may be
made public for the benefit of the aftlided, and am with efteem. See.
Borough, Southwark, March 10. W. WOOLLEY, M. A.
BILE ON THE STOMACH.
ALL bilious complaints are removed by the Solar Tin«5lure in a raoft extraor-
dinary manner. Whenever a fit appears to be coming on, with the ftomach
loaded and oppreffed, one large table-fpoonful, taken in the fame quantity of
warm w'ater, will in ten minutes carry off the offending matter, cleanfe and comfort
the digeftive organs, and give the patient immediate relief.
BITE OF A MAD DOG, or any VENOMOUS REPTILE.
THE fatal difeafe confequent on the bite of a mad dog, is the hydrophobia, or
‘‘ dread of water which circumftance firft fuggefted dipping in the fea for cure.
It is very remarkable that thefe patients have not only a dread of water, but of every
thing bright or tranfparent. Soon after this affe6lion takes place, the mind be-
comes impaired ^ which fliows that the poifon is carried through the blood to the
nervous fluid, and thence to the brain. Dr. James, in his Treatife on Canine Mad-
nefs, mentions a boy fent out to fill two bottles with water, who was fo terrified by
the noife of the liquid running into them, that he fled into the houfe crying out
that he was bewitched. He mentions alfo the cafe of a fgrmer, who, going to draW"
fome ale from a cafk, was terrified to fuch a degree at its running into the veffel,
that he ran out in great hafle with the fpigot in his hand. But, in whatever manner
this fymptom comes on, it is certain that the mofl painful fenfations accompany
every attempt to fwallow liquids. Nay, the bare fight of water, of a looking-glafs,
of any thing clear or pellucid, will give the utmoft uneafinefs, or even throw the
patient into convulfions. In this difeafe there feems to be an extreme fenfibility
and irritability of the nervous fyftem. The eyes cannot bear the light, nor the fight
of any thing white ;
the leaf!; touch or motion offends them, and they want to bb
kept as quiet and in as dark a place as poffible. Some complain of the coldnefs of
the air, frequently when it is really warm. Others complain of violent heat; and
have a great defire for cold air, which yet never fails to increafe the fymptoms. In
all there is a great flow of the faliva into the mouth; which is exceedingly trouble-
fome to the patients, as it has the fame effebl upon their fauces that other liquids
7 have.
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 36T.
have. This therefore they perpetually blow off with violence, which in a patient
of Dr. Fothergill’s occafioned a noife not unlike the hollow barking of a dog, and
whichlie conje61ures might have given rife to the common notion that hydrophobi-.
ous patients bark like dogs. They 'have an ii^atiable thirft; but are unable to get
down any drink, except with the utmoll difficulty ;
though fometimes they can
fwallow bread foaked in liquids, dices of orange, or other fruits. There is a pain
under the fcrobiculm cordis, as in the tetanus ;
and the patients mournfully point
to that place as tho feat of the difeafe. Dr.Vaughan is of opinion that it is this pair,
rather than any difficulty in fvvallowing, which diftreffes the patient on every at-
temipt to drink. The voice is commonly plaintive and mournful ;
but Dr. Vaughan
tells us there is a mixture of fiercenefs and timidity in the countenance which he
cannot defcribe, but by which he could know a hydrophobious perfon without aflc-
ing any queftions. Some feem to have at times a furious delirium, and an inclina-
tion to fpit at or bite the by-ftanders ;
while others diow no fuch inclination, but
will even fuffisr people to wipe the infide of their mouths with the corner of a hand-
kerchief in order to clear away the vifcid faliva which is ready to fuffocate them.
In fome male patients there is an involuntary eredlion of the penis, and emiffion of
the femen; and the urine is forced away by the frequent return of the fpafms.
In a letter from Dr. Wolf, of Warfaw,, to Henry Baker, F. R. S. dated Warfaw,
Sept. 26th, 1767, we have the following melancholy account of the cafes of five
perfons who died of the hydrophobia : None of them quite loft their fenfes ; but they
were all talking without intermiffion, praying, lamenting, defpairing, curfing, figh-
ing, fpitting a frothy faliva, fcreeching, fometimes belching, and retching, but rare-
ly vomiting. Every member is convulfed by fits, but moft violently from the na-
vel up to the breaft and cefophagus. The fit comes on every quarter of an hour;
the fauces are not red, nor the tongue dry. The pulfe is not at all feverifli ; and,
when the fit is over, nearly like a found pulfe. The face grows pale, then brown,
and during the fit almoft black; the lips livid ;
the head is drowfy, and the ears
tingling; the urine limpid. At laft they grow weary; the fits are lefs violent, and
ceafe towards the end ;
the pulfe becomes weak, intermittent, and not very quick
;
they fweat, and at laft the whole body becomes cold. They compofe themfelves
quietly as if to get deep, and fo they expire. A general obfervation was, that the
lint and dreffings of the wounds, even when dry, were always black, and that when
the pus was very good in colour and appearance. In one. of Dr. Wolf’s> patients
who recovered, the blood ftank intolerably as it was drawn from a vein ; and one
of Mr. Vaughan’s patients complained of an intolerable foetid fmell proceeding
from the wounded part, though nobody but himfelf could perceive it. In general,
the violent convulfions ceafe a ftiort time before death ; and even the hydrophobia
' goes
368 A KEY TO PHYSIC
goes off, fo that the patients can drink freely. But this does not always happen
;
for Mr. Vaughan mentions the cafe of a patient, in whom, “ when he had in ap-
pearance ceafed to breathe, the fpafmus cynicus was obfervable, with an odd con-
vuHive motion in the mufcles of the face ;
and the ftrange contrariety which took
place in the adtion of thefe produced the moft horrid alfemblage of features that
can well be conceived. Of this patient alfo it was remarkable, that in the laft
hours of his life he ceafed to call for drink, which had been his conftant requeft;
but was perpetually afking for fomething to eat.”
The hydrophobia feems to be a fymptom peculiar to the human race; for the
mad animals which communicate the infedtion do not feem to have any drea^d of
water. Notwithftanding this, dipping is the common remedy for the cure of dogs
and men. With regard to the fymptoms of madnefs in dogs, they are very equivocal
;
and thole particularly enumerated by fome authors, are only fuch as might be ex-
pedted in dogs much heated or agitated by being violently purfued and ftruck.
One fymptom indeed, if it could be depended upon, would determine the matter;
namely, that all other dogs avoid and run away from one that is mad ;
and even
large dogs will not attack one of the fmalleft lize who is infedled with this difeafe.
Upon this fuppofition they point out a method of difcovering whether a dog, who
hath been killed, was really mad or not; namely, by rubbing a piece of meat
along the infide of his mouth, and then offering it to a found dog. If the latter eats
it, it is a fign the dog was not mad ;
but, if the other rejedts it with a kind of howl-
ing noife, it is certain that he was. Dr. James tell us, that among dogs the difeafe
is infedtious by ftaying in the fame place ;
and that, after a kennel has been once in-
fedted, the dogs put into it will be for a confiderable time afterwards in danger of
going mad alfo. A remedy for this, he fays, is, to keep geefe for fome time in th©
kennel. He rejedts as falfe the opinion that dogs when going mad will not bark
;
though he owns that there is a very confiderable change in their bark, w'hich be-
comes hoarfe and hollow.
With regard to the immediate caufeiamong mankind, there is not the leaft doubt
that the hydrophobia is occafioned by the faliva of the mad animal being mixed
with the blood. It does not appear that this can operate through the cuticula; but,
when that is rubbed off, the fmalleft quantity is fufficient to communicate the dif-
eafe, and a flight fcratch with the teeth of a mad animal has been found as perni-
cious as a large wound. It is certain alfo, that the infedtion has beea communicated
by the bites of dogs, cats, wolves, foxes, weafels, fwine, and even cocks and hens,
when in a ftate of madnefs. But it does not appear that the diftemper is communi-
cable from one hydrophobious perfon to another, by means of the bite, or any
other way.
. AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 369
It has been generally allowed by practitioners, that, though the hydrophobia may
be prevented, yet it can feldom he cured after the difeafe has made its appearance.
The moft effential part of the treatment therefore depends on an immediate ufe of
the proper means of prevention. For this purpofe fome advife the inftant cutting
out the part bitten, which muft certainly be an effedlual mode, provided we could
be fure the poifon had not reached beyond the wound. When, however, we con-
fider the rapidity with which the blood and juices flow, it feems impoffible we can
ever wholly depend on fuch an operation. I fliould neverthelefs advife it to be
done; after which let the part be well foaked with the Solar Tin6lure; and, to fortify
the bJood, let the patient immediately fwallow a table fpoonful every three hours,
undiluted, for the firft day; and the fame dofe night and morning, for a month fol-
lowing. Let the-part be again foaked with the Tincture four times a-day, for three
or four days; and I am fatisfied a fafe and perfect cure may be relied on. For the
bite of adders, fnakes, &c. bathing the part, and taking the medicine undiluted, will
counteradl the virulence of the poifon, and preferve the patient from further injury.
For gun-shot WOUNDS, CUTS, STABS, &c.
GENTLEMEN in the army and navy, and all perfons liable to gun-fliots, ftabs,
wounds, &c. Ihould never be without the Solar Tindture. Its falutary effedts on
the blood, in all thefe cafes, are really furprifing. It totally prevents, and will even
ftop, mortification, in very advanced ftages. It quickly fupplies the greateft lofs of
blood; fortifies the heart, cherifhes the vital organs, and heals and unites the flefli
in an uncommon degree. If taken internally, and poured at the fame time into the
wound, it is quickly propelled through the heart by the veins and arteries ;
and
thus renovates the exhaufled fpirits, and preferves life. Its efFe6l on a few Ample
wounds may be feen in the following cafes.
'
To E. Sl.BLY, M. D.
SIR,—For the fake of thofe liable to accidents, I think it right to inform you
of a moil remarkable cure performed by your Solar Tin6lure, on a very deep and
dangerous wound made on Mrs. Cook by a cafe-knife, of more than the depth of
my fore-finger. After trying every means in vain to flop the blood, I fent for a
bottle of your Solar Tin6lure; and well bathed the wound therewith. The blood
and Tindlure readily aflimilated, and formed a crufl on the orifice of the wound,
which very foon flopped the effufion of blood. But what is mofl remarkable, the
wound was completely healed in lefs than fix days, and is now fo perfectly clpfed,
as to be almofl imperceptible. You are welcome to publifli this, and in fo doing
will oblige, &c.
Seymour-Jlreet, Portland-fquare, April 14. WILLIAM COOK.
No. 24, SB To
57Q A KEY TO PHYSIC
To E. SIBLY, M. D.
SIR,—In juftice to my own feelings, I cannot but acquaint you with a cure per-
formed by your Solar Tin6lure, in a very uncommon manner. As I was travelling
in the ftage to Boxley-Abbey, near Maidftone, in Kent, a gentleman, who fat next
me, putting his head out of the window, received a violent cut acrofs the eye with the
coachman’s whip, which produced an immediate fwelling and inflammation, attend-
ed with fo much agony, that he declared the pain was infupportable. I had pur-
chafed a bottle of your Solar Tinfture while in town, knowing it had performed
many furprifmg cures in my neighbourhood. This I immediately opened, and ap-
plied to the inflamed part; and, after wafhing the eye well withit, I bound a white
handkerchief tight over it, vvetted with the Tincture. In lefs than ten minutes the
anguifli was greatly afluaged; and in the courfe of three hours it was quite well.
The gentleman expreffed the utinoft af onifliment at the celerity of the cure, as did
every paffenger in the coach. I wifli this to be made as public as poflTible, for the
benefit of thole who are liable to accidents ;
and am with refpecf, &c.
M. STABLES.
I fliall only remark further, with refpedl to wounds, bruifes, &c. that a fhortfime
ago, as a coach was driving furioufly out of Cavendifli-fquare, the horfes unfortu-
nately beat down a girl of eight years of age, the daughter of Robert and Elizabeth
Larken, of Clipllon-flreet; and, the wheels paffing over her body, fhe was taken up
to all appearance dead. The fpe6tators were for carrying her immediately to the
hofpital ;
but, the accident happening very near my houfe, I was lent for. I avoid-
ed letting blood, but bathed the bruifed parts thoroughly with the Solar Tin6ture,
and introduced half a fpoonful, undiluted, into her llomach. It was now about nine
o’clock at night. She was compofed and afleep before ten, being overcome by
the medicine. A fpoonful more of the Tin6lure was given her at different periods
of the night, the fudorific power of which brought on a plentiful perfpiration. At
ten o’clock the next morning flie awoke, and got up, and was fo well recovered as
to be able to play about with her companions, in all refpe6ls the fame as if nothing
had happened. The girl, and her parents, are pleafed with every opportunity of
recounting the circumftances of this event, to any enquirers.
Let it not be faid, that, becaufe this medicine appears to be prefcribed for many
diforders, it can be good for none.—I aflSrm, that every complaint for which it is re-
commended, originates in the blood, or in ohJtruHed perfpiration. Theadion of the
Solar Tincture is on the blood and juices; it ftrikes at the root, not at the
branches; by which peculiar advantage it effedls a cure when other medicines fail.
And, though there is a medicine, fold in regular praftice at a guinea an ounce,
which
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 371
which poffeffes no one virtue comparable to the Solar Tindlure;^ yet the proprietor,
unwilling to adopt fuch examples, or to withhold from the afflidled in every line of
of life the benefits of his difcovery, has determined to render it to the public at only
7s. 6d, the fmall, and 13s. the large, bottles, duty included, with ample diredtions
in every complaint for which it ought to be adminiftered.-—A fingle bottle will in
many cafes perforto a fpeedy cure, when, in the ordinary courfe of medical practice,
it would occupy a month, and cofli many pounds for unneceflary attendance, and
excefs of drugs.
OF THE
PRINCIPLES
OF
LIFE AND DEATH.
LIFE denotes the animated ftate of nature; and, in human beings, exifts as long as
an union of the foul and body lafis. With us, therefore, life continues, until fuch fe-
paration has really taken place; which can no more be faid to have happened dur-
ing the paroxifm of a fit, or of a blow which for a time deprives us of fenfation, or
in the ear^^.period of an unnatural or fudden death, than during the time we are
afleep. It is* the want of proper fkill at fuch times that too often occafions death
to take place, when life abfolutely exifts in the blood, and might with little care
have been prefsrved. Death is therefore the adt of feparation of the foul from the
body ;
in which fenfe it ftands oppofed to life, which confifts in the union thereof.
An animal body, by the actions infeparable from life, undergoes a continual change,
and receives its diffolution. by degrees. Jts fmalleft fibres become rigid; its minuter
veflels
372 A KEY TO PHYSIC
velTels grow into folid fibres no longer pervious to the fluids ; its greater veflfels
grow hard and narrow; and everything becomes contradfed, clofed, and bound up:
whence the drynefs, immobility, and extenuation, obferved in old age. By fuch
means the offices of the minuter velfels are deftroyed; the humours flagnate, har-
den, and at length coalefce with the folids. Thus are the fubtileft fluids in the”
body intercepted and loft, the concodlion weakened, and the reparation prevented
;
only the blood continues to run flowly through the greater veftels, afliduous to pre-
ferve life, even after the animal fundlions are deftroyed. At length, in the procefs
of thefe changes, death becomes inevitable, as the neceffary confequences of life,
But it is rare indeed that life is thus long protradled, or that death fucceeds merely
from the natural decays and impairment of old age. Accidental difeafes, and our
negle6l of preferving health, cut the work fliort.
The figns of death are often very uncertain. If we confult what Winflow or
Bruchier have faid on this lubje61:, we fliall be convinced, that between life and
death the fliade is fo very undiflinguifhable, that even all the powers of art can
fcarcely determine w here the one ends and the other begins. The colour of the
vifage, the warmth of the body, and fupplenefs of the joints, are but uncertain figns
of life ftill fubfifting; while, on the contrary, the palenefs of the complexion, the
coldnefs of the body, the ftiffnefs of the extremities, the cefTation of all motion, and
the total infenfibility of the parts, are but uncertain marks of death begun. In the
fame manner alfo, with regard to the pulfe and breathing; thefe motions arefo often
kept under, that it is impoffible to perceive them. By bringing a looking-glafs
near to the mouth of the perfon fuppofed to be dead, people often expedt to find
whether he breathes or not. But this is a very uncertain experiment : the glafs is
frequently fullied by the vapour of the dead man’s body ; and often the perfon is
ftill alive, though the glafs is no way tarniflied. In the fame manner, neither noifes
in the ears, nor pungent fpirits applied to the noftrils, give certain figns of the dif-
continuance of life ;
and there are many inftances of perfons who have endured
them all, and afterwards l ecovered without any external affiftance, to the aftonifli-
ment of the fpedlators. This furely ought to be a caution againft hafty burials, ef-
pecially in cafes of fudden death ;
for it is fhocking to refledt, that fome hundreds
of valuable members of fociety are annually torn from their difconfolate families by
fome accidental fudden caufe, and hurried thoughtlefsly to the grave, in w'hom the
principles of life were capable of being revived ! This lamentable truth has been
eftablifhed by the happy fuecefs of the Humane Society, from w'hofe laudable exer-
tions feveral hundred perfons have been reftored to life, who, to all vifible appear-
ance, werepcift recover;^. Every age and country affords fome inftances of perfons
having been recovered, even alter lying long for dead ;
and from the number of
7 thofe
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 379
thofe preferved by mere lucky accidents, it is evident ftill greater numbers might be
faved by timely pains and Ikill. Thofe who have contemplated the ftru6ture of the
human machine know, that its diflblution cannot natw'ally happen but by that gra-
dual decay of the whole fyftem above defcribed, when the velTels are become imper-
vious to the fluids, the circulation w-eakened or deftroyed, and the vital organs na
longer able to perform their office. But, when their fun<5lions are merely fufpend-
ed by fome fudden fliock, it may be likened to the ftate of a watch flopped by a fall,
w'hich refumes its motion the inftant that injury is repaired. In the animal ceconomy,
the BLOOD is the LIFE;” Levit. xvii. II, 14. Deut. xii. 25.. therefore, if its
circulation be fufpended or deflroyed, death follows. But, if the blood can be
re-agitated, and its circulation refamed, life will of neceffity be rellored. For this
reafon, whenever any accident has happened, by which fudden death appears ta
have taken place, whether by blows, fits, falls, fuffocation, flrangulation, drowning,
apoplexy, convulfion-fits, thunder and lightning, affaffination, duelling, or the like,
let the unfortunate perfon be carried into a warm houfe, and laid by the fire, or put
into a warm bed ;
let two or three table-fpoonfuls of the Solar Tindlure be intro-
duced as early as poffible into the ftomach, and rubbed profufely in, by a warm
hand, upon the fpine of the back, loins, breafl, and region of the heart, and poured
into the wound, if there be any; the warm flimulating quality of the medicine, af-
fifled by the external heat and fri6lion, will quickly roufe the flagnant blood and
juices, particularly in the grand refervoir the heart, where, rarefying, preffing every
way, and being refifled by the valves, it will fwell fo as to fill the flaccid right auri-
cle of the heart, which by the fliock had become empty and at refl ;
and thus, lli-
naulating its fibres, will put them in motion, ' The right auricle being thus filled,
and flimulated into contra6lion, fills the ventricle; which, by this means being irri-
tated, likewife contrails and empties itfelf into the pulmonary artery ;
and, the mo-
ment this is done, the circulation begins again where it left off;
and the lungs, being
filled by the dephlogiflicated air contained in the medicine, begin to adt, and life is
reflored, provided the organs and juices are in a fit difpofition for ft; which they
undoubtedly are much oftener than is imagined. Nor is this ftimulating action of
the Tinfture upon the lieart at all furprifing ; for every medical man knows, or ought
to know, that the heart, even when taken out of the body, if it be pricked with a
pin, or hath w’ai’m water thrown upon it, will beat afrefli, and endeavour to exert its
functions, though^ for fome time before it had been motionlefs. No perfon there-
fore ought to be confidered dead, until the energy of the txlood is fo far gone, that
it can, never again be agitated fo as to fill and flimulate into contraction the right
Jinus venqfiLS and auricle of the heart.
5 C
No, 24. Whea
S74 A KEY TO PHYSIC
When the patient is thus far recovered, he ought to be treated with great care and
tendernefs ;
and fome warm milk, wine and water, elder-flower-tea, or any nourilh-
ing fpoon-meat, fliould be given to him as foon as he appears capable of takjng
food. In fome cafes it may be neceffary to open the temporal artery and the exter-
nal jugular, or to bleed in the arm ;
but this fliould never be done, if it can fafely
be difpenfed with, as it certainly weakens the animal principle, w’hich it is the firft
object of this medicine to ftrengthen. Under different circumftances, and as parti-
cular occafions may require, the rules laid down in p. 196 of the Medical Part of
this w'ork, and recommended by the Humane Society, will be found of conliderable
advantage. Above all, let me entreat an anxious perfeverance in this fublimeftof
all virtues —the attempt to recover perifliing lives. Humanity calls for it in the
moft moving accents; and w hat can infpire a good heart with more fincere, per-
fe6t, confcientious, and commendable, fatisfadlion, than a retrofpe6l of fuch endea-
vours as have been generoufly exerted and fuccefsfully contributed to recover, per-
haps to reftore, the life of a fellow-creature from the moft deprecated calamity
—
fudden death, with its alarming retinue of threatening confequences to thofe who
die unprepared ? fince, by thus preferving a finner to a future period, perhaps a foul
may emerge in full maturity to felicity which fliall have no end
!
To demonffratethe reanimating power of the medicine, experiments may be made
upon a fowl, lamb, cat, dog, or other animal, by plunging them under water until
they are apparently dead, or piercing them through the head, or any part of the bo-
dy except the heart; by fuffocation, or an eledlrical fliock : for fudden death, how-
foever it happens, whether by drowning or otherwife, is much the fame as to its ef-
fedls on the vital organs ;
confequently they are all to be treated in a fimilar manner.
Upon the whole it is evident, that by contemplating the oeconomy and harmony
of our ftrudture, both external and internal, we may quickly difeern a proper line
of conduft for the confervation of health, and the prolongation of life ;
and we fliall
alfo perceive a more auguft view of the marvellous works of divine wifdom in the
ftrudlure of the human frame, than w e fliall perhaps again find in the whole com-
pafs of nature. The gift of health was evidently the defign of our benevolent
Creator in the conftruftion of our bodies ;
it is therefore no lefs our duty than our
interell to preferve this blefling to our lateft moments, as the feafoning and fund
w'hich gives the relifli to all our other enjoyments. To enumerate the various
abufes of health, which take place from our earliell infancy, particularly among the
rich and gay, and which are continued through the fucceeding flages of modifli
life, would fill a volume. Suffice it to obferve, that they prevail more particularly
among people who are the moft highly poliflied and refined. To compare their
artificial mode of living vvith that of nature, would afford a very ftriking contraft,
7 and
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 375
and fupply an obvious reafon why perfons in the lower orders of fociety are gene-
rally the longeft livers, and enjoy the heft ftate of health; and hence we are war-
ranted to conclude, that a large proportion of the difeafes to which we are fubjedled
are produced' by ourfelves.
Notwithftandingthis unaccountable abufe of Our health, yet the want of it unfits
us for rnoft of the common avocations of life, and is more efpecially an enemy to
the focial and humane alFe6lions, as it generally renders the unhappy fufFerer peevifh
and fullen, difgufted at the allotments of Providence, and apt to induce fuicide, by
fuggefting gloomy and fufpicious fentiments of the Almighty. It obftrudls the
free exercife and full improvement of our reafon, makes us a burden to our friends,
and ufelefs to fociety. Whereas the uninterrupted enjoyment of health is a con-
ftant fource of good humour, and good humour is a great friend to opennefs and
benignity of heart; enables us to encounter the various ills and difappointments of
this world with more courage, or to fuftuin them with more patience; and, in Ihort,
conduces much, if we are otherwife duly qualified, to our acting our part in every
exigency of life with more firmnefs, confiftency, and dignity. Therefore it imports
us much to preferve and improve the habit of its enjoyment, without which every
other external entertainment is taftelefs, and moft other advantages are of little avail.
To this end, we ought above all things to cultivate prudence, temperance, fobriety,
fortitude, and equanimity of temper ;
for without a prudent care of the body, and
a fteady government of the mind, to guard the one from difeafe, and the other
from the feuds of pallion and prejudice, found health is unattainable. By temper-
ance we enjoy the real gratifications of life, without fuffering any confequent ineon*
venience. Sobriety enables us to be content with fimple and frugal fare, and pro-
te6ts us from the pain and difgrace of intoxication. Fortitude enables us to bear
thofe infirmities which prudence and fobriety cannot fliun, and banilhes all dread of
imaginary evils from our thoughts. Equanimity of temper contributes greatly to
the happinefs of life, as well as to the prefervation of health, by keeping the mind
from anxiety and perturbation, and arming us againft the calumnies and animofities
of human nature. Violent paffions, and the exceffes they induce, gradually impair
and wear away the conftitution ;
whilft the calm and placid ftate of a temperate
mind, and the healthful exercife of the body, preferve the natural functions in- full
vigour and harmony, and exhilarate the fpirits, which are the chief inftruments ofac-
tion. The worft confequences that could poflibly refult from a ftri(5l: adherence to
this regimen, would be that of exterminating a fwarm of locufts, and rendering the
difcovery of my medicine of lefs importance to the community.
Or
376 A KEY TO PHYSIC
Of the crisis, or CRITICAL TURN, of a DISEASE.
THE Crills of a Difeafe is no other than the ftruggle betwixt nature and the
infirmity, which of them fhall prevail. If nature at the time of the crifis over-
comes the malignity of the difeafe, it is a fure fign it wdll be cured; but, if the fick-
nefs prevails, it is then a pernicious crifis, and fiiows fudden alterations for the worfe.
Every fudden and vehement motion of the difeafe may be called a crifis; therefore
days critical, decretory, and crifmal, are all one and the fame thing, and import
no more than a certain and more fure judgment of the infirmity afflidting, either
more powerful, or lefs vehement, at thofe times when the true crifis happens
;
therefore a crifis is to be calculated from that moment of time when the difeafe
firfi; invaded the patient. And on this ground I fliall make fome obfervations to
prove the truth of what I have now to deliver, and of what I have before fo often
proved, that I cannot but admire the wonderful providence of God, who difpofeth
all things by number, weight, and meafure, prefcribeth to the whole fyflem of na-
ture fo immutable a law, that it were as eafy for the heaven and the earth to return
to their original chaos, as to break and infringe that immutable law, unlefs the di-
vine w'ill and pleafure alter it miraculoufly.
We difcriminate two forts of difeafes; acute, and chronic. Of acute difeafes
fome are fimply acute, others peracute, that is very acute; others again are perper-
acute, or exceedingly acute. Thofe that are fimply acute are finiflied in eight, ten,
eleven, fourteen, twenty, or twenty-one, days. They are terminated in the time
the Moon traceth the twelve celeftial figns of the zodiac, viz. in twenty-feven
days and eight hours.
Thofe acute difeafes which fuffer changes are very fickle; for fometimes they in-
creafe, and fometimes they are remitted, according as the Moon meets with the
beams of either benefic or baneful planets ;
and fometimes they change out of
acute difeafes into chronic ; and thus a continued fever may change into an hedic
fever, or an intermiltant fever into a continual fever; and thefe difeafes terminate
in forty days.
Very acute difeafes are fuch as terminate in five, fix, feven, or eight, days;
amongft which is the difeafe called peripneumonia, or inflammation of the lungs.
Exceedingly acute difeafes are fuch as end in three or four days at fartheft, as pef-
tilences, apoplexies, &c.
Chronic difeafes follow the motion of the Sun, and it is about ninety days before
the firfi crifis begins to appear; for in that time the Sun comes to the proper quar-
tile of the place he was in at the decumbiture; as appears in hedlic fevers, dropfies,
and the like. But, when he comes to thofe degrees from the decumbiture which
are
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 377
are called indicative, or intercidental, which are both one, or judicial, (as may be
feen in the Table,) fome alteration will appear, whereby a man may judge of the
crifis to come. For the patient will be va cII, if the Sun be well configurated with
benign planets; but worfe, if in afpedt with evil ones; and this rule is infallible, if
you confider it from the nativity throughout the whole courfe of a man’s life ;
for
difcafes are the particular attendants of the inequality of the elements in coery human
being.
Alfo a crifis may be perfe6l, or imperfedl, '
A perfe<51; crifis is when the difeafe
appears plain, and perfectly to be judged of; and this is fometimes hopeful, and
fomejtimes defperate. Hopeful, when there is a great probability of health and re-
covery ;
defperate, when there are palpable figns of death. An iinperfe6t crifis is
when the difeafe is changed upon every light occafion ; as if Mars be the author of
the difeafe, and in a double-bodied fign ;
in this cafe the difeafe will be variable.
That crifis may be deemed fafe, Avliich comes without pernicious afpedls; but
that is doubtful and dangerous which comes with malignant afpe6ts ; what thefe
afpe6ts are, with the fignificators of every difeafe, and the mode of afeertaining
them, are already explained in my Illustration ©f Astrology. I have there
fhown, that to judge of a difeafe, it is neceffary to obferve the motion of the Sun,
Moon, and lord of the afeendant. With refped to the lord of the afeendant,
obferve, before you give judgment, what application he makes to any planet, either
by conjundtion, quartile, or oppofition; or,^ fhould he apply to more than one planet,
look to vphich of them he approaches nearefl, and then count how many degrees of
longitude are between them ;
and, if the difeafe be acute, then for every degree add
a day; but, if chronic, a wpek, month, or year, according to the fituation of Jupi-
ter, Venus, Mercury, or the Moon, at a perfedl crifis.
Now the time called critical is always evil, becaufe of the contrariety of the fign
the Moon is then in to the fign the was in at the decumhiture, which induceth the
contrariety of her nature to the oppofite place; therefore at fueha time there arifeth
a controverfy and conteft between the difeafe and nature. The Moon upholds na-
ture in acute difeafes ;
and hence is the reafon that a bad crifis will always happen,
if file be afflidted upon a critical day by the bodies or evil beams of Saturn or Mars,
or by the lord of the eighth houfe, or by the lord of the fourth houfe, if he be a ma-
levolent, becaufe he fignifies the grave. But, if the Moon at the time of the crifis
behold the lord of the afeendant, or be configurated with the benefic planets, health
enfues, and the malady will be vanquifhed and overcome in the conflidfc.
If the difeafe terminates not upon the firft crifis, obferve how the Moon will be
configurated on the fecond crifis, and judge by the fame rules. If it terminates^
not then, as will fometimes happen, view-the third crifis, and judge by that the fame
No. 24. 5 D way.
37S A KEY TO PHYSIC
vvay. If your judgment, fupported by reafon and the former rules, declare that
the difeafe will not terminate one way or other, neither in health nor death ;
then
examine the face of the heavens at the time the Moon returns to the place die was
in at the decumbiture, which is at the end of twenty-feven days, eight hours, and
dome minutes ;
and judge according as the Moon diall be then configurated with
benefic or malignant planets ;
for this of neceffity terminates all acute difeafes;
though we may obferve that not one in a hundred holds on fo long, nor one out of
twenty continues half fo long.
If the acute difeafe ends not in a month, it is then turned into a chronic difeafe
;
and muft be judged of by the Sun. The rules forjudging chronic difeafes by the
Sun are fimilar to thofe by which we judge of acute difeafes by the Moon. Now,
for the right diftindlion and calculation of time to judge of the progrefs of a difeafe
in this way, obferve the following method : See what degree the Moon was in at the
decumbiture, by an Ephemeris, and add twenty-two degrees thirty minutes, which
is called the indicative time, becaufe it informs the phyfician the nature of the dif-
eafe; for upon thefe indicative days the difeafe is ufually remitted and mitigated.
To this indicative time add twenty-two degrees thirty minutes more, and this
points out the judicial day, viz. juft forty-five degrees from the place of the Moon
when the patient fell fick, being the half of a crifis, and manifefts, according as the
Moon happens to be afpedled, whether a good or a bad crifis will enfue. To the
judicial day add twenty-two degrees thirty minutes more, and it makes fiixty-feven
degrees thirty minutes, which produces the fecond indicative day, as falling be-
tween the crifis and judicial day. From this the phyfician may expeft indications
how the difeafe will finally ftiow itfelf. To this add twenty-two degrees thirty mi-
nutes more, and you have the perfedf crifis of the difeafe from the decumbiture,
viz. ninety degrees, or one quarter of the zodiac. At this time nature will mani-
feft, according to the planets that are in afpedl to the Moon, whether the fick per-
fon will have a good or bad crifis; and, adding twenty-two degrees thirty minutes
more, it makes the next judicial day, when the Moon approacheth to it; and foon,
through the whole twelve figns of the zodiac, and over»it again, if the difeafe termi-
nate not in that time, as will plainly appear by the following Table, which fiiows
when the Moon comes to an indicative or to a judicial day, that is, a femiquartile,
or half a crifis ;
and when to a true quartile, and when to an oppofition, which is
called a full crifis ;
and fo to all the indicative and judicial days during the fick-
nefs, &c.
EXAMPLE.
Suppofe the true place of the Moon, at the time a perfon falls fick, be fixteen
degrees of Gemini, which will be found in the fourth column of the following Ta-
2 ble,
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. ^ S79
blc, fo that fixteen degrees of Gemini will be the Moon’s radical place in the de-
cumbiture. Over againft 16 degrees, to the right hand, I find 8 30, and over
.the head thereof I find $ ;
fo that, when the Moon came to eight degrees thirty
minutes of Cancer, it was the firft indicative day, wherein the phyfician might
expedl to fee how the difeafe would fliow itfelf. ITpon every crifis or indicative
day, make fpecial obfervation what planet the Moon is in configuration with ;
if
with a benevolent planet, expedl fome remiifnefs in the difeafe ;
but, if with a ma-
levolent, the contrary effect will follow'. Next, on the right hand to 8 3o of s,
you will find 1 which fhows that, when the Moon comes to the firft degree of
Leo, Ihe will be in femiquartile to her firft place ;
and this, is, as before ftated, half
a crifis, at which time the difeafe will more or lefs ma,nifeft itfelf according to fuch
configurations as the Moon is found to make with the other planets at the time ftie
comes to the firft degree of Leo. In the next column on the right hand, you fee
23 30, and over it S?.. This points out the indicative day, wherein the phyfician is
enabled further to judge of the increafe or decreafe of the difeafe. In the next co-
lumn you find 16, and over it it^, which indicates that, when the Moon came to the
fixteenth degree of Virgo, there was a true crifis, whereby the difeafe might be more
fully inveftigated, and a judgment framed according to the afpeds the Moon in
that degree had to the good or evil planets ;
for from hence will the patient or phy-
lician defcry a better or worfe crifis, in progreftive order. And thus, in the continued
line or column, you may run round the face of the Heavens, obferving the configu-
rations of the Moon when flie comes to thofe places of the zodiac wherein flie makes
the indicative, judicial, and critical, days, and what planet or planets the is then in
contact with, and whether in the decumbiture they promife good or evil. Befides
this, you muft obferve on what day the Moon, or the lord of the afcendant, tranfits
the cufp of the fixth, feventh, and eighth, houfes, and how flie is then afpe6led with
the benevolent or malign planets; and obferve whether flie be combuft, or in via
eomiujla, which is from the twentieth degree of Gemini to the firft of Cancer, in
the northern part of the zodiac, and in the fouthern from the fixth degree of Sa-
gittarius to the fixteenth of the fame conftellation ; and from the twenty-fourth
degree of Sagittarius to the fifth degree of Capricorn, or in conjundlion, quartile,
or oppofition, of Saturn, or Mars, or of a combuft planet, or of fome fixed ftar of a
malignant nature; for in all thefe cafes an indication is given of death, or of long
and fevere ficknefs, according to the number of teftimonies and aftral indications,
as exprefled in the rules given in my Illustration ofAsTROLOCiY ; but in which
the following moft valuable Table was omitted.
ALU-
380 A KEY TO PHYSIC
A I.UNAR TABLE,
Which, by entering with the Degree of the Moon at the Time any Per-
fon falls fick, will point out at one View the Indicative, Judicial, and
Critical, Day, of the Difeafe.
T T a n 25 25 SI
-ru -ru
; yy y?
o 30 23 15 30 8 0 30 23 15 30 8 0 30 23 15 3 ^ 8 0 .30 23 15 30 8
I 30 24 16 30 9 I 30 24 1
6
30 9 I 30 24 16 30 9 I 30 24 16 30 9
2 30 25 17 30 10 2 30 25 17 30 10 2 30 25 17 30 10 2 30 25 17 30 10
3 30 26 18 30 1
1
3 30 26 18 30 1
1
3 30 26 18 30 1
1
3 30 26 18 30 1
1
4 30 27 19 30 1
2
4 30 27 19 3'^ 1
2
4 30 27 19 30 12 4 30 27 19 30 1
2
5 30 28 20 30 13 5 30 28 20 30 ^3 5 30 28 20 30 13 5 30 28 20 30 13
6 30 29 21 30 14 6 30 29 21 30 14 6 30 29 21 30 14 6 30 29 2 I 30 14
7 30 30 22 30 15 7 3G 30 22 30 15 7 30 30 22 30 15 7 30 30 22 30 15
b SI
8 30 I 23 30 16 8 30 I 23 30 16 8 30 I 23 30 16 8 30 I 23 30 16
9 30 2 24 .30 17 9 30 2 24 30 17 9 30 2 24 30 17 9 30 2 24 30 17
lO 30 3 25 30 18 10 30 3 25 30 18 10 30 3 25 30 18 10 50 3 25 30 18
1
1
30 4 26 30 19 1
1
30 4 26 30 19 1
1
30 4 26 30 19 I r 30 4 26 30 19
12 30 5 27 30 20 12 30 5 27 30 20 12 30 5 27 30 20 12 30 5 27 30 20
13 30 6 28 30 21 13 30 6 28 30 21 ^3 30 6 28 30 21 13 30 6 28 30 21
14 30 7 29 30 22 14 30 7 29 30 22 14 30 7 29 30 22 14 30 7 29 30 22
8
n
8
13 30 I 30 23 15 30 8 0 30 23 30 8 0 30 23 15 30 0 30 23
1
6
30 9 2 30 24 16 30 9 I 30 24 16 30 9 I 30 24 16 30 9 I 30 24
17 30 10 3 30 25 17 30 10 2 30 25 17 30 10 2 30 25 17 30 10 2 30 25
18 30 1
1
4 30 26 i8 30 1
1
3 30 26 18 30 1 1
3 30 26 18 30 1
1
3 30 26
19 30 1
2
5 30 27 19 30 '12 4 30 27 19 30 1
2
4 30 27 19 30 12 4 30 27
20 30 13 6 30 28 20 30 13 5 30 28 20 30 13 5 3c 28 20 30 13 5 30 28
21 30 14 7 30 29 21 30 14 6 30 29 21 30 14 6 30 29 21 30 14 6 30 29
22 30 15 8 30 30 22 30 15 7 30 30 22 30 15 7 30 30 22 30 15 7 30 30
25 r
23 30 16 9 30 I 23 30 16 8 30 I 23 30 16 8 30 I 23 30 16 8 30 r
24 30 17 10 30 2 24 30 17 9 30 2 24 30 17 9 30 2 24 30 17 9 30 2
25 30 18 1
1
30 3 25 30 18 10 30 3 25 30 18 1
0
32 3 25 30 18 10 30 3
26 30 19 12 30 4 26 30 19 1
1
30 4 26 30 19 1
1
30 .4 26 30 19 1
1
30 .4
27 30 20 13 30 5 27 30 20 12 30 5 27 3020 12 30 5 27 30 20 12 30 5
28 30 21 14 3^ 6 28 30 21 13 30 6 28 3021 13 30 628 30 21 13 30 6
29 30 22 15 30 7 29 30 22 14 30I 7 29 30I22 14 30 7I29 30 22 14 30 7
With
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES.
‘
381
. With refpe6t to moderate or flight difeafes, Hippocrates afferted, in the firft
place, !‘That contraries, or oppofites, are the remedies for each other ;” and this
maxim he explains by an aphorifm ;
in which he fays, that evacuations cure thofe
diftempers which come from repletion,, and repletion thofe that are caufed by eva-
cuation. So heat is deftroyed by cold, and cold by heat, &c. In the fecond place^
he afferted, that “ phyficis an addition of what is wanting, and a fubtra(5lion or re-
trenchment of what is fuperfluous an axiom which is explained by this, viz. that
there are fome juices or humours, which in particular cafes ought to be evacuated,
or driven out of the body, or dried up ;
and fome others which ought to be reftor-
ed to the body, or caufed to be produced there again. As to the method to be
taken for this addition or retrenchment, he gives this general caution, That you
ought to be careful hoW you fill up, or evacuate, all at once, or too quickly, or too
much ;
and that it is equally dangerous to heat or cool again on a fudden ;
or ra-
ther, you ought not to do it: every thing that runs to an excefs being an enemy to
nature. In the fourth place, Hippocrates allow^ed that w'e ought fometimes to di-
late, and fometimes to lock up : to dilate, or open the paffages by which the hu-
mours are voided naturally, when they are not fufficiently opened, or when they are
clofed ;
and, on the contrary, to lock up or ftraiten the paffages that are relaxed,
when the juices that pafs there ought not to pafs, or when they pafs in too great
quantity. He adds, that we ought fometimes to fmootb, and fometimes to make
rough ;
fometimes to harden, and fometimes to foften again ; fometimes to make
more fine or fupple ;
fometimes to thicken ;
fometimes to roufe up, and at other
times to flupify or take away the fenfe ;
all in relation to the folid parts of the bo-
dy, or to the humours. He gives alfo this farther leffon, That we ought to have
regard to the courfe the humours take, from whence they come, and whither they
go ;
and in confequence of that, when they go where they ought not, that we make
them take a turn about, or carry them another way, almoft like the turning the
courfe of a river ;
or, upon other occafions, that we endeavour if pofTible to recal,
or make the fame humours return back again ;
drawing upward fuch as have a ten-
dency downward, and drawing downward fuch as tend upward. We ought alfo to
carry off, by convenient ways, that which is neceffary to be carried off; and not
let the humours once evacuated enter into the veffels again. Hippocrates gives
alfo the following inflru6lion ;
That, when we do any thing according to reafon,
though the fuccefs be not anfvverable, we ought not too eafily, or too haflily, to al-
ter the manner of adting, as long as the reafons for it are yet good. But, as this
maxim might fometimes prove deceitful, he gives the following as a corrector to it
:
“We ought (fays he) to mind with a great deal ofattention what gives eafe, and what
creates pain; what is eafily fupported, and what cannot be endured.” We ought
No. 25. 5 E not
382 A KEY TO PHYSIC
not to do any thing ralhly ;
but ought often to paufe, or wait, without doing any
thing : by this way, if you do the patient no good, you will at leaft do him no hurt.
Thefearethe principal and moft general maxims of the practice of Hippocrates,
and which proceed upon the fuppofition, that nature cures all flight difeafes.
When, however, they are acute or fevere, they demand the utmofl: ingenuity and
fkill of the phyfician to moderate their violence ; and it is then that their termina-
tion may be known by confulting the foregoing Table.
Of the utility of the preceding TABLE.
IN order to fliow the great utility and convenience of this Lunar Table, in de-
ciding the event of any particular fit of illnefs, I fliall here ftate fome real predic-
tions which were made, during the indifpofition of fome of my patients, and for
whom the following horofcopes were erected.
, CJmrleg
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 383
I have placed the horofcope of this patient’s nativity before the figure of hrs de-
cumbiture ;
in order to fhow, by way of analogy, that fuch an indifpofition would
certainly take place about this time, from the pofition of the fignificators, and their
particular configucations with the heavenly intelligencers^ at the time of his birth.
For this reafon, ithe figure of the fick perfoii’s nativity fhould always be infpe<Sed
where it carrbe had, becaufe it enables us the, better to judge, in many intricate
cafes, whether the- difeafe will terminate with life or death * for although, in mofV
common naaladies, itis poffible to determine this queftion pretty accurately, by the
help of theipreceding Table, .without the radical figure of birth, yet, where that can
'be had, ourJudgment wilLin general be rnox'e certain, and often infallible.
In the above figure of the decumbiture of the patient, we find the Moon hath
lately tranfited the place of the Sun,and Jqpiterjn the figure of birth ; and that this
place is in the .fiery itriplicity, afflidting the Moon in the radical point with a quar-
lile afpedt ; at the-fame time that the Moon and Mars beholding each other with a
trine, from fiery Jfigns, -at the ,
time of birth, clearly fhows.that the native would ,
fubjedt to fevers of the inflammatory kind. But I fhall decline making any coro-
aoentS'on the temperature of the native, or the defignation of his fignificators at the
time
Charles Thomas,
SEIZED WITH A
SCARLET FEVER,
13M Oct. 3h. P. M. 1792.
Q, * 2.
1)22. 40
TO
384 A KEY TO PHYSIC
time of birth ;
as it is not my intention here to explain the mode of calculatino'
a nativity, that being already fufificiently demonftrated in my Illusthationt of
Astrology, All that -can be neceffary here, is to give a few examples from the
decumbitures of different patients, compared with the horofcope of their nativity,
in order to Ihow, by the Table, whether fuch fick perfons would live or die. And,
in doing this, it will be proper for thofe who wifli to be convinced of the truth and
exiftence of the celeftial influx, to pay the ftricleft attention to the Moon’s places in
the Table, and wdiat pofitions of the benefic or malefic afpedls flie tranfits, or comes
in configuration with ;
for from thefe events will the malady of each particular
patient be abated or increafed ;
and from thefe of courfe muft our judgment be
ultimately drawn. “ '
By the decumbiture of the patient now under confideration, we fee that the IMoon,
at the time of his falling fick, was in tw'enty-two degrees forty minutes of Virgo.
To this I add twenty-tw o degrees thirty minutes of the zodiac, which brings her to
fifteen degrees ten minutes of Libra, and is her firft indicative place. At the time
fire arrives here, I find, by examining the preceding horofcopes, that fhe is within
orbs of a fextile afpedl of Mars, which indicates a ftrong fever ;
though not ex-
tremely ardent, owing to the Moon’s tranfiting the place of Venus in the figure of
birth. I now add, or pafs on to, twenty-two degrees thirty minutes more of the zo-
diac, which cuts an angle of forty-five degrees, and brings the Moon’s place to fe-
ven degrees forty minutes of Scorpio, which gives her judicial time, and furniflies
the means of dire<5ling our judgment whether a fevere or favourable crifis would
follow. To this end I infpeft the figures, and find that the Moon now comes to a
conjun6lion of the two benevolent planets Jupiter and Venus, which alone prog-
nofticates a favourable crifis ;
and the more fo, as at this time the Moon nearly tran-
fits the place of Saturn in the horofcope of birth : accordingly, the patient became
much better, the fever decreafed, and his pulfe was more regular. From the Moon’s
judicial place in Scorpio, I now pafs on twenty-two degrees thirty minutes further,
which Ihows her fecond indicative pofition, in ten minutes of Sagittarius; where,
finding no particular afpe6l of the principal ftars or luminaries, it portended little
or no alteration in the ftate of the difeafe at this time ;
and fo it happened. I now
advance twenty-two degrees thirty minutes more, which fhows the place of the
Moon on that day to be in twenty-two degrees forty minutes of Sagittarius; where
file produced the firft crifis of the diforder. It was now obfervable, that from the
laft indicative day to the time of this crifis, the patient fiiowed figns of a delirium,
and rambled much in his talk, concerning riding of horfes ;
which exactly cbrref-
ponds with the nature of the fign where the crifis fell ;
but it was evident he would
recover from this, and be much mended, when the Moon formed her trine with
"
Saturn,
385
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES.
Saturn, to wliich (he was approaching, in twenty-nine degrees twenty-fix minutes
of Sagittarius. When this afpe6l was formed, the patient had vifibly recovered,
and the brain was never after affe6led. I now proceed twenty-two degrees thirty
minutes morfe on the zodiac, which brings the IVloon to her next indicative day, in
fifteen degrees ten minutes of Capricorn. Here the two celeftial luminaries form a
quartile, a difcordant afpe6l, which gave the patient a relapfe. Proceeding the
next twenty-two degrees thirty minutes, I come to the Moon’s judicial place, in
feven degrees forty minutes of Aquaries. Here we find a mundane trine, formed
by Jupiter and Venus with the Moon, and a zodiacal trine of Mercury, a plain de-
monftration that the diforder muft abate, and that a favourable crifis would enfue.
To the feven degrees forty minutes of Aquaries, I add twenty-two degrees thirty
minutes more, which brings the Moon to her fecond indicative place, in ten mi-
nutes of Pifces. Viewing the decumbiture, I now find the Moon approaches to a
trine afpe6l under the benign influence of Jupiter and Venus, which overcomes the
quartile of Mars, and indicates that the difeafe would be completely conquered
by the next crifis. To afcertain the truth and manner of this, I proceed onwards
twenty-two degrees thirfy nnnutes more, which brings the Moon to twenty-twO‘
degrees forty minutes of Aquaries, w'here the fecond grand crifis was to be pro-
duced. Now upon maturely infpedfing the decumbiture, I find the Mooni at the
time this patient was feized with his diforder, w^as placed in her north node, and
contributed to the evil effedls of the other configurations ;
but at the time of this
grand crifis, flie is fortunately pofited in her fouth node, thereby helping to deprefs
the vitiated humours of the body, and to overcome the difeafe. This pofition, con--
tributing to the favourable influence of the other configurations, reftored the pa-
tient from his bed of ficknefs, and his ftrength gradually increafed ;
fo that by the
time the Moon formed her conjun6iion with Saturn, as exprelfed on the face of
the heavens in the figure of his decumbiture, the mafs of blood was purified from:
all feverifii fyrnptoms, and the patient was relfored to his accuftomed health and
ftrength. And thus we may fee, that by eredting the decumbiture, or figure of the
pofitions of the heavenly bodies, at the time any patient is feized, and proceeding int
this manner to afcertain the influence of the good or evil afpedts on the indicative,
judicial, and critical, days, we fiiall, without difficulty, be able to determine whether
the difeafe will prove flight or dangerous, and be dire6led accordingly in our regi-
men and mode of treatment. But in order to make this fpeculation ftill more ob-
vious to the young praftitioner, as well as to the curious reader, I fhall now pro-
ceed to examine the decumbiture of a patient, whofe difeafe was more malignant,,
and proved fatal.
386 A KEY TO PHYSIC
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 587
Thefe figures I erected while relident in Briftol, at the requefl of my good friend
Dr. Till Adams, who being feized with a malignant fever, accompanied with dan-
gerous fymptoms, and being himfelf a friend to, and an admirer of, the Occult
Sciences, was defirous of feeing the refult of fuch an enquiry, and of judging him-
felf, by thefe means, whether he fhould live or die.
In confidering the fidereal effe6t ofthe preceding figures, it is by no means requi-
fite to calculate the genethliacal prognoftications of the feven erratics at the time of
the native’s birth. It is however neceffary to notice their principal afpefts and po-
fitions in the horofcope, in order to determine whether the fame pofitions are tranf-
mitted, or fimilar or adverfe afpe6ls formed in the decumbiture, at the time the-pa^
dent is taken ill ; but no further or more minute fpeculation'is required, fince we
are neither confidering the effect of direftions, nor the fate of a nativity; but are
endeavouring to prove, that, by only obferving the pofition of the heavens at the time
the patient is taken ill, the probable termination of the difeafe might be foretold,
and whether it would end in life or death. Firft, then, we may obferve, the Moon
is fituated in the eighth houfe, termed by the ancients the houfe of death, becaufe
of its obfcurity and pofition under the earth. Befides this, we find the Moon in
oppofition to Saturn, who was her difpofitor at the time of birth; and from this
afpedt the forms an oppofition with Venus, the lady of the do6tor’s afcendant; and
immediately approaches to an oppofition of the Sun, the fountain of life. Thefe
are three evil dire<5dons by pofition, and furnifii a very unfavourable profpe6t of
the event of the difeafe. For the Moon, the giver of radical moilture, afflidted by
the adverfe rays of the. Sun, the author of vital heat, fails not to produce fuch a
putrifaSion of the animal juices, as to bring on a fpeedy difiblution of the body.
Let us then examine the decumbiture by our Table, and fee how and when this
fatal event would take place.
At the time the patient fell fick, we find the Moon in ten degrees forty-fix mi-
nutes of Leo ; to which add twenty-two degrees thirty minutes for the firft indica-
tive time, which falls in three degrees fixteen minutes of Virgo; and indicates the
nature of the difeafe to be a fever; for the Moon, from this indicative place, be-
holds the Sun in the radical point with a baneful quartile afpedt ;
and the Moon,
according to her own nature, was Saturnine, as departing from a fextile configura-
tion with Saturn in the radix, to a quartile with Venus, lady of the afcendant, and
giver of life ;
and therefore, according to the aftral rules of the immortal Ptolomy,
this firft motion of the Moon from the radical- point of the decumbiture indicated
evil, I now go forward twenty-two degrees thirty minutes more, for the firft judi-
cial day, which places the Moon in twenty-five degrees forty-fix minutes of Virgo.
Now as the Moon is not configurated at this judicial time with either of the planets,
neither
388 A KEY TO PHYSIC
neither by tranfit in the nativity, nor afpofl in the decumbiture; and her judicial
place falling in the twelfth houfe, the houfe of afflidfion; we cannot draw any fa-
vourable judgment from thefe circumftances ;
but, on the contrary, a dangerous
cribs is to be expedted. To this judicial time, we add twenty-two degrees thirty
minutes more, and it brings the Moon fixty feven degrees from the f)luce the oc-
cupied when the patient was feized with tbediforder ;
and this is her fecond indica-
tive place, which fails in eighteen degrees fixteen minutes of Libra. Now, if wein-
fpedt the foregoing horofeopes, we lliall find the Moon, in approaching to this point,
has juft departed from a baneful oppofition with Jupiter, which, having the diredi
oppoftte effedt of a conjundlion with that benevolent planet, which reprefents the
heart and vital principle, ftiows a contaminated or morbid ftate of the blood and
lymph. We likewife perceive the Moon is in quartile to her own radical place,
tranfiting at the fame time the body of Venus, and making this afpedl the harbin-
ger of a fatally-approaching crifts. To determine this fadl, I proceed twenty-two-
degrees thirty minutes further in the zodiac, which brings the Moon to ten degrees
forty-ftx minutes of the fign Scorpio, at which point of time the crifts, or critical day,
of this patient’s difeafe occurred. Now by infpedling the figures, we fiiall perceive
this crifis is ufliered in by fuch evil configurations of the heavenly bodies,, the fe-
cond caufes under nature, as would not only heighten the malady, and put it out
of the power of medicine to fubdue, but would infallibly terminate in death. In
the firft place we fhall notice, that the Moon tranfits the place of Saturn in the ra-
dical point; fecondly, ftie is configurated in a malefic quartile afpedl of Saturn in.
the decumbiture ;
thirdly, fhe is wdthin orbs of a baneful quartile of Venus, lady
of the patient’s afeendant; and fourthly, fiie is rapidly approaching to a quartile
configuration of the Sun, which is inimical to life and motion, without any one
frieniily afpedl of the henefic planet Jupiter intervening, to leffen or repel the
malefic influence. Such, therefore, are the teftimonies, that under any kind of ma-
lady and wherever they occur, infallibly portend the death of the patient ; and they
accordingly put an end to the exiftence of this much-refpedled man, whofe integrity
in his profeftion had gained him univerfal efteem, and renewed in him the ineftima-
ble charadler of the immortal Culpeper, who, never, with a view to gain, gave two
medicines for the cure of an afflidled fellow-creature, when one was fufficient.
But death levels all diftindlions ; and, in ftridl conformity with the time and manner
pointed out by the above decumbiture, it conduced the foul of this excellent man
from an earthly to an heavenly habitation, on the 20th of February, 1786, at the
time the Moon formed her quartile afpedf with the Sun, which was. in eight days
from the time he was feized with the fever, and fix days after it was foretold by the
preceding horofeopes ; from whence, having forefeen the doctor’s fate, I compofed
an
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 389
an Elegy on his death, while he was yet alive, which I got printed, and publifhed
on the very day he expired ;
thus manifefting to the world, with the patient's earneft
approbation, an incontrovertible inftance of the verity of aftral predidlion.
Having thus far endeavoured to prove the utility of the Lunar Table, by thein-
difpofition and recovery of Charles Thomas, a pupil of Mr. Hall, engraver to
his rnajefty, in the one cafe ;
and by the ficknefs and death of Dr. Till Adams, in
the other; I lhall now, for the farther fatisfa6lion of the reader^ prove, that it is
poffible to judge whether a patient will live or die, from the horofcope of the de-
cumbiture only, without knowing, or recurring to the horofcope of the patient’s na-
tivity, or time of birth. —To this end,, the following axiom muft ever be remember-
ed: That if we find, at the time any perfon is feized with illnefs, that the Moon is
afflidted by more than one planet ; and that on the next critical day fhe forms a
congrefs with the malefic planets Saturn and Mars, either by conjundlion, quartile,
or oppofition, the fick perfon fhall die on the day and hour in which the afflidled
Moon comes to the interficient point of the zodiac ;
as the great Ptolomy declareth
in his I6th Aphorifm : “We muft behold the motion of the Moon as flie paffeth
through the critical, judicial, and mortal, days ; for, if the be in them fortunate, it
fareth well with the patient ;
but, if unfortunate, the contrary.” I fhall exemplify
this b the following example.
No. 2J. 5G Being
390 A KEY TO PHYSIC
Being fent for to a perfon who fell fick on the 10th of April, 1791, and being de-
firous to know the event of his difeafe, I examined the face of the heavens at the
exadl time the patient was feized, viz. at half pall twelve o’clock at noon, when the
celeftial intelligencers were pofited as in the above decumbiture, and which are as
follow ; The Moon, which in ail decumbitures reprefents the fick perfon, is fituated
within the quartile influence of no lefs than four planets, Saturn, Mars, Mercury,
and the Sun; and, as they are all within orbs of a conjundlion with each other, it
follows that the difeafe would bear defignation of their joint pernicious influx,
which, fcientifically confidered, manifefts a fever, with putrefadtion of the animal
juices, as thofe (killed in the aftral fcience will quickly fee. For the Sun’s burn-
ing influence, in conjundlion with Mars, a hot and violent planet, and Mercury
being controvertible in his nature, unites in the malefic rays of the Sun and Mars ;
and, although Saturn is conftitutionally cold, yet, being alfo dry, his cold quality
is over-balanced, inafmuch as drought participates of the qualities of heat, being
fuel for the fire. Yet the cold quality of Saturn fpecificates the difeafe, by fliow-
ing that it fprung from a cold caufe, or deathly chill, extended over the whole cir-
culating fyftem, or mafs of blood.
On examining the patient, he informed me he had drunk a quart of cold water,
being overcome with heat and thirft, and in a violent perfpiration, whence his blood
muft have been in a highly-inflamed (late. This feems eminently prenoted by the
Moon’s pofition in a watery fign, and a moveable one, at the fame time in oppofi-
tion to the four planets above-mentioned, in fiery figns. Here, then, we at once
perceive the fource apd malignity of the difeafe ;
and finding neither of the benefic
ftars caft a fingle ray, either by body or afpedl, to the aphetic place, I thence con-
cluded the patient muft inevitably die, notwithftanding the Moon was beheld by a
fextile configuration of Venus, which ftrengthened his nature, and fliowed that he
would greatly ftruggle with the malady. But as the teftimonies of evil arifing from
the joint influence of Saturn, Mars, Mercury, and the Sun, are more and much
greater than the contra-fupport afforded by Venus, I reafonably concluded the pa-
tient would die of the diforder, and that it was not in the power of medicine to fave
him. My next endeavour was to determine the hour of death. With this view I
look to the Table, p. 380, for the Moon in Cancer; and, in the fifth column from the
left, I find the degree the Moon was in at the time the patient was feized, viz. 7 30
;
and then, guiding my eye along till I come to the ninth column, I finlf 7 30 of
Libra ;
now, Libra being oppofite to Aries, the malefic planets Saturn and Mars of
courfe fend their oppofite malignant beams into that fign, Saturn in ten degrees
eighteen minutes, and Mars in thirteen degrees twenty-fix minutes; I therefore con-
cluded, that, when the Moon came to feven degrees thirty minutes of Libra in the
zodiac?
t !
'
;i!
S'^
» ',
• —
't%' i t
Jipmv
-
:
- •'!
"'
'
-r
h
Zewzff 7^'^
^7^ JFhafi<rc
^(rrn 'ZA^<7T^JC,id^£'‘l
\ JP3£. A
\,HaneJbitpznefie ff/’J^arTam&xhc/iriai
\ Widow Lewis’ (a/u(7 /
A\^'7'^7^7zted 7ff (7cC\i 77
'b' ^^AOuU'in 7AcJ7drni/i^
6-
A
-Zlewid Ca^e^JS,EecuZecAU7JanJ'^^^
\7Cjr20.3C. m tAe 3n>r7iai^ /
'a 77 z^c.
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 391
zodiac, the crifis would take place, as may be feen at the top of the fifth coluUin in
the Table; and that when the Moon came to ten degrees eighteen miputes, being
the oppofition of Saturn, a vifible change in the patient would take place for the
worfe; and that when fhe arrived at the thirteepth degree twenty-fix minutes of
the fame fign, thereby forming the oppofition with Mars, the difeafe would prove
mortal, and terminate in death. If, therefore, the duration of the difeafe be reck-
oned by the motion of the Moon, we fliall find, without any enquiry from the nurfe
or do6lor, that the patient died about half paft four o’clock in the afternoon, on
the 17th of April, 1791, at which precife time the critical afpe6l on which the dif-
eafe turned was formed. Thus was afforded an inconteftible proof of the corre6f-
nefs of my Lunar Table, and of the force and power of the planetary influx on
fublunary bodies.
Of the DIFFERENCE betwixt a NATURAL and VIOLENT DEATH,
exemplified by the FATE of the late KING and QUEEN of FRANCE.
WITH a view to teach the curious reader how to diftinguifh the aflral teftimo-
nies portending a violent death from thofe which forefhow our natural dilfolution,
I fhall, by way of example, invefligate the particular configurations Avhich prenoted
the violent death of the late unfortunate Louis XVI. king of France, and his
unhappy confort, Marie-Antoinette of Auftria. For this purpofe I have annexed
a copper-plate engraving of their nativities, with figures of the pofitions of the ce-
leftial intelligencers at their coronation, and on the days of their execution. Who-
ever has perufed my Illustration of Astrology, will have feen, that in my
predictions, publifhed in the year 1786, I foretold the revolution in the French
empire,' and the dethronement and execution of the French king and queen, fix
years before it happened ;
with all the dreadful confequences appertaining thereto,
exactly as they have fince fallen out ; and whoever lives to fee the uplhot of a few
years, will alfo fee every other part of my predi^ions literally fulfilled. I could
even now publilh to the world the fuccefs and termination of many great events,
which all men are anxious to know, though few perhaps w'ould believe, were I at
liberty to difclofe them. The fafety of particular individuals, the well-being of the
ftate, the peace of fociety, the profperity of empires, hang upon the ilTue of a few
revolving periods; and, though. the age we live in, yet few would brook the
admonitions of a friend, though they fliould lead to a profperity and riches^—to
glory and renown. The uncommon pofitions of the heavenly bodies, which are
the fecond caufes in the fecret operations of Nature, are at this time well worthy
the attentive confideration of the naturalift and fpeculative philofopher. Their
mundane influence is by no means confined to the nations of Europe, but threatens
the
392 A KEY TO PHYSIC
the ruder and more widely-extended realms with the effe6t of a convulfive ftroke.
God, in Lis unbounded favour to the Britifli ifles, will overthadow and protect
them : and it is not impoffible but the day may come, when the humble author of
thefc remarks may be at liberty to amplify and develope the fubjedl in fome future
p 'blication. In the mean time, let Pruffia, and all the fmaller German flates, be-
ware ;
for the time will foon come, that Germany Jhall he no more.*
Louis XVI. was born the ^3d of Auguft, 3h. 50m. P. M. 1754. The fign Sa-
gittarius afcended upon the eaftern fineter of the horizon, intercepted by Capricorn ;
wherelore Jupiter and Saturn are the lords of his afcendant, and, with the Moon in
the tenth houfe, reprefent his perfon. From the nature and quality of thefe fignifi-
cators, w’e may deduce the follow ing inferences : That Saturn being in the afcend-
ant gave the native a wavering and irrefolute difpofition; the Moon polited in
Scorpio gave him a tafte for luxury; and Jupiter, being co-fignificator in the
eighth houfe, in afpedt with Mercury, rendered him mild and paffive, yetdeclared that
his principal adlions fhall be attended with difappointment, and produce him much
anxiety, vexation, and infult. In the royal hereditary figure of birth, we find four
planets occupying the houfe of death; and as the Moon, giver of life, is difpofed of
by one of thofe planets, it is an argument that he would not live to an old age.
The precife time of death is only afcertainable by bringing up the feveral diredlions
of the nativity: and, as the method of doing this is already amply explained in my
Illuftration of Aftrology, we muft refer thofe who choofe to work them up, for any
affiftance they may want, to the rules there laid down. Suffice it here, that we
point out thofe teftimonies from the face of the nativity, that are always found to
be arguments of a violent death. Thefe are, Firft, Saturn in the afcendant, po-
fited in a violent fign. Secondly, the Moon, giver of life, configurated with the vio-
lent fixed ftar Chcelae. Thirdly, the lord of the afcendant malevolently conjoined
with the lord of the houfe of death. Fourthly, the two lights of the world deprefled
in the eighth houfe. And, fifthly, the Moon elevated in the dignities of an infor-
tune, and Mars, her difpofitor, having his fall in a human fign, plainly demon-
ftrate that the native fliould fall by the hand of man. And this was unhappily veri-
fied by his execution, on the 21ft day of January, 1793, at twenty-two minutes paft
ten in the morning; at which time thefe malefic diredlions came up, as reprefented
in the figure of his execution, in the preceding plate. At that fatal moment w'e find
the Sun, the light of time, was in his detriment; that Mercury, the fignificatqr of
I prefume that the accompliffiment of this bold predldlion, which the author did not live to fee,
will be found in the formation Of the Confederation of the Rhine, in the fuppreffion of the fmall
ftates and annihilation of the Germanic circles, and the erection of the kingdoms of Bavaria, Saxony,
Wirtemberg, and Weftphalia, inftead of them; but particularly when Francis II. renounced the
title of Emperor of Germany, Aug. 6, t,8o6. Editor.
the
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 593
the French people, occupied the cufp of the tenth houfe, tranfiting the place of
Saturn, the king’s fignificator, at the time of birth ;
and that the two malefic planets
Saturn and Mars are in reception of each other; and that the Moon, the fignifica-
tor of life, is furrounded with violent fixed ftars, in oppofition to the benign planet
Jupiter, in angles, and in quartile to Mars, her difpofitor in the horofcope of birth ;
all which peculiar configurations are fo many ftrong and irrefiftible arguments of
the refolution of the people to proceed to extremities, and of the irrevocable fate
of this unfortunate monarch. For, although Jupiter, his co-fignificator, is ob-
ferved to fend a friendly ray to the aphetic place, yet having no dignities, and be-
ing difpofedofby Mars, the fignificator of the convention, this benefic afpedt was
depreffed, and its influence overcome, by the redundancy of a malefic influx.
This admirably points out the ftruggles of Dumourier, in the hope of being' able
to preferve the life of the king; but his endeavours were quickly borne down by
the violence of the leading fadlion, and there w>as not a man to be found who
had courage enough to fecond his heroic intentions. This alfo, by the rules of
the fidereal fcience, is clearly prenoted by the circumflance of Mars being the
difpofitor of Jupiter; and that Mars is difpofed of by Saturn, the author of pu-
fillanimity and fear. Thus the afcendant of birth fliows that want of refolution
and intrepidity in the native, which, if exerted in the favourable moment, would
have turned the daggers of his enemies tow'ards their own breafts, and have per-
manently fecured himfelf and his poflerity on the throne ;
and thus the figure of
his deeumbiture points to the fatal execution of the guillotine, and proves, that
although the native fprung from a moft illuftrious houfe, having the two fuperior
planets for his fignificators, and although he Avas a king, at one time beloved and
idolized by his people, yet that he was but a man, fubjedl to the fevereft reverfe
of fortune, and doomed to as ignominious an end as the vileft of his fubjedls
!
The elegant and accompliflied confort of this unfortunate monarch was born
on the 2d of November, 1755, 7h. 23m, P. M. as expreffed in the plate. In
the figure of her nativity, we find the Moon is lady of the afcendant, rifing upon
the fign Libra, in the fifth houfe, the houfe of pleafure and fexual enjoyment; of
which, it is fufliciently evident, flie was paffionately fond. Mars being pofited on
the afcendant, in his eflfential dignities, fliows her to have been ftately, auftere,
and proud; yet predicts that flie would be unfortunate in her connedlions, and
impatient of controul. This is the more obvious, becaufe Mars, the fignificator
and influencer of her paffions, is dignified in her afcendant, though approaching
to an oppofition of Saturn, lord of the feventh and eighth houfes, who is likewife
-configurated in his eflential dignities, and, more extraordinary ftill, is pofited in
No. 26. 5 H the
394 A KEY TO PHYSIC
the exaltation of Mars. This gave her an unconquerable fpirit, and ftrong na-
tural paffions, with an infatiable appetite for intrigue, united to an inconftant and
arbitrary turn of mind. This is ftill more ftrongly demonftrated by the prefenco
of four planets in the fifth houfe, and two of them afpe6led in the fign Scorpio.
That her reputation would be ari-aigned by the voice of the multitude, is fore-
Ihown by the Dragon’s Tail being in the tenth houfe, the houfe of dignity and
honour ;
and the treachery of her confidants is pointed out by Mercury being in
the fixth houfe, in his detriment, and in oppofition to the Part of Fortune. That
lier confort would be involved in misfortunes, and fuffer greatly on her account,
is made manifefi; by Saturn, the fignificator of tlie king, being in oppofition to
IMars ;
and the Moon, lady of her afcendant, in baneful quartile to both the in-
fortunes. Indeed, there never was a nativity yet made public, wherein the in-
fortunes were fo mifchievoufly configurated, or wherein the general fignificators
fo confpicuoufly denoted individual misfortune and univerfal rage. But I fiial!
pafs over, for the prefent, any farther remarks on the unfortunate defignation of
the fignificators in this nativity, and notice them no farther than as they point
out the teftimonies of a violent and premature death. Thefe are : Firft, the Sun
and Venus, configurated with a violent fixed flar, in a violent fign. Secondly, Mars
afcending to the violent fixed flar Hercules ;
and the fign afcending being of a
violent nature. Thirdly, the lord of the eighth houfe, the houfe of death, afflift-
ing the Moon in the aphetic place. Fourthly, the lord of the fixth houfe afflidt-
ing the Moon, the lady of the afcendant, and fignificator of life, with a malefic
quartile ray, the harbinger of violence, and the prefage of death.
Thus we may obferve, that one of the principal luminaries is afflicled by both
the infortunes, and the othe ris pofited in a violent fign, denoting aviolent death.
Again, the lord of the eighth houfe, a malevolent planet, afflidfed by the quartile
rays of an infortune by nature, is another prefage of untimely death. Alfo the
lady of the afcendant, in a violent fign, banefully configurated w ith the infor-
tunes, and the difpofitor of the luminaries in a violent fign, is an irrefragable proof
of an approaching untimely death. Now, the Moon, who is lady of the afcendant,
having her fall in a human fign, portends aviolent death by the band of man; and,
if we examine the face of the heavens at the time of her execution] we fliall find
her death proceeded from the violence of an ufurped power, occupying the feat of
juftice ; for the Moon, elevated in her afcendant at the time of birth, is moll re-
markably configurated in the fall of the Sun at the time of her execution ;
and that
fame fign culminating on the cufp of the tenth houfe, the houfe ofjuftice, and the
Sun being pofited there in his fall, in conjundliou with Mercury, moft aptly de-
fcribes
AND THE OCCULT SCIENCES. 595
fcribes the manner of the native’s death. Mercury, who is the natural fignificator
of the French people, being in his effential dignities, elevated, and in reception of
Venus, lady thereof; and Mars beholding Jupiter with a quartile ray, pofited
in the twelfth houfe, and lord of the afcendant of death ;
and the Moon, ladv of
afcendant of birth, being within orbs of an oppofition of Mars and Venus, who
have their fall in the houfe of dignity and honour; all tend to forefhow that roy-
alty was for a time to be deftroyed in France; as is moft wonderfully prenoted in
the horofcope of the coronation. And what is very remarkable, at the lime of
the French monarch’s death, the Sun, who is king among the planets, was pofit-
ed in his own detriment, or in that peculiar point of the heavens which is oppofed
to his own houfe ;
and at the time of the unfortunate queen’s execution, the Sun
was in his fall, without a fingle dignity tP fupport him, as is moft clearly evinced
by the horofcopes in the preceding plate ;
fo that we may fay, the ftarS in their
courfes fought againft this illuftrious pair, as they fought againft Sifera of old ;
and thua we may perceive, that the moft valiant and the moft courageous are
not proof againft the fhafts of fate ;
but that the nobleft, and moft glorioufly clad,
whether in honour,, glory,, or renown, are but like the offspring of plants, which
have their fpringing up, their flowering, and their fragrant maturity; until, pluck-
ed by a rude hand, they wither,, fade, and die.
DIRECTIONS FOR PLACING THL CUTS.
Front! fpiece — — to face the Title
Syftem of the Interior Heaven — page 8
Symbol of the univerfal Spirit of Nature — 28
Polypes and Animal Flowers — — 6r
Animalcules — — — 64
Electrical Stars — — — 246
Cryftals formed from Salts — — 249
Animal Magnetifm — — — p. 260
Progreflive Formation of the Fcetus, PI. I. 3 j r
Ditto — — Pi. II. 312
The Action of Quickening — 344
The Infenftble Perfpiration — 349
Nativities of the King and Queen of France 391
INDEX
INDEX TO
A IR> as contributing to the health or difeafe of
the human body, 163; various kinds, 168.
Anemone, 57, 58.
Anger, various eftetts of, 183.
Angina pefforis, an uncommon diforder, 227,
Animalcula infuforia, 70.
Anirnalcules, various kinds, 62 ;
the caufe of many
difeafes, 76 ;
particularly of bad teeth and of-
fenfive breath, 78.
Animal flowers, 56; cUiftered, 57; the Barbadoes, 59. .
Animal magnetifm, 257 ;
Dr. Bell’s procefs, 258 ;
arguments to prove that animal magnetifm is the
caufe of fympathy in man and other animals,
and even in plants, 276.
Animals can exift without air, 74.
Atoms, nature of, 23 ;
properties, magnitude, fi-
gure, weight, and motion, of, 24.
Bell-flower animalcule, or plumed polypus, 66.
Brutes, an enquiry into the nature of, 49; curious
inftances of friendfliip among brutes of different
fpecies, 91; Bougeant’s curious hypothefis, 104.
Cantharides, their effeCls on the body, 349.
Conception, progrefs of, and growth of the fcetus,
illuftrated with curious plates, 31 1 ;
remarkable
conceptions, owing to the conflifi of the isiale
and female procreative tincfures, 332.
Crifis, or critical turn, of a difeafe, 376,
Difeafes, divided into hereditary and accidental,
389 : at what time hereditary difeafes are com-
municated to the foetus, 308 ;
difeafes, feminine,
or lunar, 321 ; malculine, or folar, 338 ;
Hippo-
crates’s inftrudtions for the cure of flight difeafes,
381.
Eels in pafle, 63.
Eleifricity, medical, 241; curious experiments, 246.
Exercife, as conducive to health, 167.
Fear, extraordinary effedts of, 183; a ludicrous
anecdote, 289.
Firft matter explained, 22.
Fixed air, as a medicirte, 239.
Flower-filh, their remarkable properties, 57.
Feetus, how nouriflied in the womb, 313 ;
its
growth, and the diforders occafloned thereby,
313, 314, &c.
Food, its nature and qualities, 158.
Fox, fagacity of, &c. 117.
France, king and queen of, their nativities ex-
amined, 392.
Generation, occult properties of, in plants and
herbs, 39.
Globe-animal, various kinds, 67.
God, his exiftence clearly pointed out, 4.
Grief, a deftruftive paflion, 194.
Hair-like infqdl, 62.
Hare, account of the, 113.
Health, rules for prelervuig, 233 —239,
Heaven, enquiries into the nature and (ituation of, 7,
Hunter, Mr. curious experiments made by him, 338.
Hydrophobia, 221, 326.
Jackall, vulgarly called the lion’s provider, 122.
Impotency, fometimes occafloned by fear, 189;
other caufes of it, 191 ; cure, 194.
Impregnation, the procefs of, 290.
Infedl with net-like arms, 69.
Inftindt diftinguiflied from reafon, 81, 82 ; curious
inftances of in various animals, 82—112; bees,
82 ;
caterpillars, and wafps, 84 ;
a cat, 85
;
crows, 85, 91; cuckows, 86; horfes, 91, 97;
ravens, 92; elephants, with fome uncommon
anecdotes, 93 ; dogs, 99 ;
the land-crab, 109.
Intemperance, deftrudtive effedts of, iSi.
Longevity, remarkable inftances of, 144; caufesof,
147, &c.
Love, its foundation and effedls, 195.
Lunar Table, pointing out the various turns of a
difeafe, 380 ;
explained by the nativities and de-
cumbitures of Charles Thomas and Dr. Till
THE
THE KEY.
yfdams, &c. 382, &c. farther explained by ade-
cumbiture only, 389.
Lunar Tindlure, its adlion on female conftitutions,
317 —332 ;
with cafes annexed in proof of its ef-
ficacy, in irregularity of the menfes, 323 ; green
ficknefs, 324; fluor albus, 327; barrennefs,
331 ;
recommended to all married women, 333
•
and to women at the turn of life, 336 ;
cafe of a
tainted habit in a flate of pregnancy relieved bv
this medicine, 360.
Man confidered in his various relations, 122 ;
va-
rieties of the human fpecies, as eiiumcr ited by
Linnaeus, 126 ;
liow arranged by Dr. Gmelin,
126, &c. how differing from brutes, 127; natu-
ral hiftory of man, 129; confiderations on the
indifpofitions and difeafes of, 280 ;
formed ori-
ginally perfedt, and capable of propagating from
his own effence, 285 ;
reparation of the male and
female eflences in the formation of Eve, 286 •
man’s fall, 287 ;
thence became fubjedt to dif-
eafe and death, 289.
Melancholy, enquiry into the caufes of, 204.
Mole, or falfe conception, 31J.
Menfters, T27.
Nature, definition of it, 9; its .properties, vifible
and occult, explained, 13.
Nutrition in the animal economy, 155.
CEfophagus, a dangerous aflr'edlion of, 232.
Paflions of the mind, 183—205.
Perfpiration, infenfible, a medium whereby bad hu-
mours are carried off, 346.
Pipe-animal, 68.
Polypus, 56, 60.
Pregnancy, difeafes attendant on, 332.
Pi ognoftics of difeafes, 205.
Proteus, a curious animalcule, 64.
Puberty, the changes it produces in the human
fyftem, 302.
Quickening, adlion of, deferibed, 342.
Rabbit, great fecundity of, 115.
Salivation, accidental, a curious cafe, 361.
Scent, 112—122.
Scrophula, its progrefs in undermining the human
frame, 350.
Sea-anemone, 58. Sea-carnation, 59.
Sleep, a due regulation of, 172.
Solar and Lunar Tindlure, two medicines invented
by the author, 317.
Solar Tindlure, its adlion on the blood, 350 ; direc-
tions for its ufe in the feurvy and king’s evil,
352 ; with a remarkable cafe, 333 • cafes of pre-
mature debility, 355 ;
relaxed habit, ibid,
weak nerves, 356; noclurnal emiflions, or incon-
tinence of the lemen, 337 ;
onanifm, 338; tainted
habit, 359 ;
tabes dorfalis, or confumption of the
back, 362; rheumatic gout, 363; fpafms, cho-
lic, and bloody flux, 364; difeafes of the breaft
and lungs, afthma, dropfy, and confumption,
363; mental depreflions, ibid, bile on the fto-
inach, 366; bite of a mad dog, &c. 363; gun-
fliot wounds, cuts, ftabs, &c. 369; cafes of (ap-
parently) fudden death, 371.
Spermatic animals, 69, 72, &c.
Stag, his fagacity in avoiding the hunters, 117.
Sympathy and antipathy in natural bodies, 29, 279;
in brutes, 49, 277 ;
operate very powerfully on
females in a date of pregnancy, 334.
Sulphur, extraordinary virtues of, 33,34.
Teeth, how to cleanfe and preferve, 78; other re-
marks on them, 80.
Turn of life in women, tlie danger attending this
period, and cautions to be oblerved, 336,
Valetudinarians, advice to, 233.
Water-crefles, diforders caufed by, 76
Wheel-animal, or vorticella, 63.
Wolf, natural hiftory of, 118.
Worm, aquatic, 69.
END.
W. Lewis, Ptiiiwr, St. John’s-s^uare,LonJ«n.
APPENDIX
TO
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL.
Having given a minute defcription of the plants and herbs contained in
Culpeper’s Britifli Herbal, with their medical properties and efFedls, I
fliall proceed to an inveftigationof fome foreign trees, plants, and herbs,
that are now in general ufe amongfl; us. And firft, of the
PERUVIAN ott JESUITS’ BARK. Cinchona.
CORTEX PERUVIANUS, called quinquina, kinkinna, quina-quina, pul-
vis patrum, and popularly the Jesuits’ hark, is the bark of a tree, growing in the
Weft-Indies, called by the Spaniards palo de calenturas, q. d. fever-wood ; by rea-
fon of its extraordinary virtue in removing all kinds of intermitting fevers and
agues. The Indians commonly call it \he, fuddling-tree, from the property it has
of intoxicating filhes, when either its wood or bark is beaten, and fteeped in the
w'ater where they are. The tree that yields this noble fpecific, is only found in
Peru, in the province of San Francefco de Quito, or Quinto, near the city of
Loxa ;
though fome fay it is alfo found in that of Potofi ;
and F. Labat in the ifland
of Guadaloupe. The bark, while on the tree, is ftreaked, of a whitifh yellow
without-fide, and a pale tan-colour within.
The Spaniards diftinguifli four forts of this precious bark, viz. the cafcarilla colo-
rada, or reddifh bark ;
amarylla, or yellowifh; crefpilla, or curling; and hlanca, or
whitifh. The colorada and ama?ylla are reckoned the befl : the crefpilla is the pro-.
No. 26. A duce
2 APPENDIX TO
duce of the fame fort oftree, only growing in a colder climate, which impairs the qua-
lity ofthe bark, and renders it whitifli on the outfide, and cinnamon-coloured within,
and unfit for medicinal ufe. As to the blanca, as it is procured from another fpe-
cies of the tree of a much larger trunk, the leaves of alighter green colour, and the
bark of a very thick fpongious fubftance, whitifli on the outfide ;
being withal fo
tough, as to require the force of an axe to flice it from the tree. When firft cut
down it is as bitter as the befi; fort, and has then the fame virtue in the cure of inter-
mitting fevers ;
but when dry, and kept any length of time, it grows infipid, and
good for nothing. In reality, both forts are found to have much furer and quicker
effedls when green than when dry, fo that the Europeans only come in for the fs-
cond-rate virtues : what is w'orfe, the bad fort is in great plenty, and the good is very
fcarce, and hard to come at : for which reafon, with a little of the fine bark fent
yearly to Panama, for Europe, large quantities of the worfl fort are ufually mixed.
The amarylla, or fmall bark, w'hich curls up like flicks of cinnamon, and which
in England is muqh efleemed, as being fuppofed to be taken from the bran-
ches of the tree, and therefore more efficacious in the cure of fevers, is only the bark
of the younger trees; which, being very thin, curls in this manner. For the bark
of the branches is never gathered ;
it would not compenfate the charge of cutting.
The feafon of cutting the bark is in Auguft, the only fettled dry time in the country.
After a tree has been barked, it requires eighteen or twenty years for a good bark to
grow again. Mr. Arrot, a Scotch furgeon, who had gathered the bark in the place
where it grows, is of opinion, that the gathering the better fort of bark will foon be
at end, or at leaf; very much reduced, partly by reafon of its diflancefrom any in-
habited place, and the impenetrability of the woods were it grows, and partly by
the want of Indians to cut it, whole race, through the cruelties of the Spaniards,
is likely to be totally extindl.
The mofl accurate account we have ever received of the tree which produces the
quinquina, or true Peruvian bark, is from M. de la Condainine, who, in travelling
through fome parts of America, chofe the route of Loxa, where the finefl bark is ga-
thered, and w'here the greatefl number of the trees is found ;
and, taking inftrudlions
from M. de Juffieu, informed himfelf concerning it. The quinquina-tree never
grows in the plains ;
it is a conflant inhabitant of the mountains, and is eafily known
from the trees among which it (lands by its eredl growth, and its height when of
any confiderable age, as it always carries its head above the reft, and alfo by itsfize.
The trees are never found in clumps or clufters together, but always feparate or
(ingle among other kinds. It is very rare, however, to find any large ones at this
time on the mountain where the bark is gathered, the great demand for it having
made
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL. 3
made them bark all the trees, and thefe having all periflied by it ;
for the old trees
never recover the barking, though the young ones frequently do. —The bark is now
gathered at all times, if the weather be dry. When the bark is taken off, it is laid
in the fun till it is perfedlly dry : the omitting this circumftance, and packing up
the bark while moift, have occafioned it often to become mouldy, and fpoil ;
and
the merchants have attributed this to the taking it off in the wrong time of the
moon, when it was wholly owing to its being put into the fkin while too moift.
The leaves of the quinquina-tree ftand on pedicles of about half an inch long:
they are very fmooth and gloffy, and of a beautiful green ;
but fomewhat paler on
the under fide than the upper. They are perfectly fmooth at the edges, and are of an
oblong figure, pointed at tlie end, and rounded at that part which joins to the ftalk*
Thqy are from two and a half to three inches in length, and from an inch and a
half to two inches in breadth. The middle rib of the leaf is rounded on the upper
fide, and is ufually of a reddifh colour, efpecially towards the pedicle ; and the
whole leaf often becomes red, when perfedlly mature. All the fmall branches to-
wards the top of the tree terminate in one or more clufters of flowers, which, be-
fore they are open, referable in lhape and colour thofe of the common lavender.
When thefe open, they change their colour : each ftalk that fuftains one of thefe
clufters arifes from the ala of one of the leaves, and divides into many fmall bran-
ches, each terminated by a cup divided into five parts, which fuftains a flower re-
fembling that of the hyacinth. It is compofed of a pipe of three quarters of an inch
long, which at the end is divided into five, and fometimes into fix, fegments. Thefe
are of a beautiful deep red within, and are ferrated round the edges in a very elegant
manner. From the bottom of the tube of the flower there arifes a white piftil, termi-
nated by a long green head ; this rifes above the level of the fegments ofthe flower,
and isfurrounded by five ftamina, which fuftain apices ofa pale yellow colour : thefe
remain hid w ithin the flowers. The tube is of a dirty red, and is covered with a for4
of whitilh down. When the flower is fallen, the cup fwells in the middle into the
form of an olive, which by degrees grows into a fruit divided into two cells, which in
drying becomes fhorter, and the w'hole fruit rounder than its natural condition.
This fruit finally opens longitudinally into twocapfules, feparated by a membra-
naceous feptum, and coated by a thin yellowifh Ikin ;
the feeds are ofa reddifli co-
lour, and in lhape are flattilh, and, as it were, foliaceous ;
they are not more than
the twentieth part of an inch in diameter, and arethickeft in the middle, becoming
thinner at each fide. The plantula ferninalis lies in the very centre of the feed, be-
tween two pellicles : thefe feeds are faftened in the manner of fo many fcales to a
placenta of an oblong figure, pointed at the two extremities, fo as fomewhat to re-
ferable
4 APPENDIX TO
femble a feed of the common oat, but that it is longer and flatter. This is joined to
the feptum, and has on that part a longitudinal furrow ; but on the other fide is
convex, and fomewhat rough all over. Mem. Acad. Scienc. Par. 1738. By this
defcription it appears, that they were very ignorant of the nature and characters of
this tree, who, when it was firft introduced among us, called it a fpeciesof febeften.
The ufe of this febrifuge feems to have been very long known to the natives, pro-
bably as early as 1500 ;
and their manner of taking it w'as by pounding the bark,
laying it to infufe in water, and drinking the infufion ;
their hatred to the Spaniards,
their conquerors, made them keep it a long time fecret from them ;
and, when the
thing became known among the inhabitants of Loxa, it fiill remained a fecret to the
reft of the world, and its great value was never generally known till the year l653 ;
when the lady of the viceroy of Peru, the Countefsde Chinchon, being long ill of an
intermitting fever, which would give way to none of the known remedies, the cor-
regidor of Loxa fent to the viceroy a quantity of the quinquina bark, which he af-
fured him would cure the lady, though all other means had failed. Upon this the
corregidor was fent for to Lima, and, after having given the medicine to many other
perfons withfafety and fuccefs, the lady at length took it, and was cured. She imme-
diately on this fent for a large quantity of the bark, had it powdered, and herfelf
difperfed it to thofe who had occafion for it ;
whence it obtained the name of the
Coimtefs's powder
:
but thislady, being foon tired of the office, gave it in charge to
the Jefuits ;
and, they continuing to give it to the fiek w ith the fame fuccefs, it then
W'as called the Jefuits’ powder. Thefe reverend fathers foon found means to fend
a quantity of it to Cardinal Lugo, who difperfed it with the fame fuccefs at Rome;
and after him the apothecary to the college gave it gratis to the poor with the fame
good effects, under the name of the Jefuits’, or the Cardinal’s, powder. Afterwards
the better fort w-eremade to pay its weight infilverfor it, to defray the expenfes of
its importation, while the poor ftill had it gratis. Louis XIV. at that time dauphin
of France, w'as cured by it of a fever, w'hichhadnot given way to other medicines.
When the Count and Countefs of Chinchon returned to Spain, their phyfician,
Jaun de Vaga, who brought a great quantity of it over with him, fold it at a con-
fiderable price ;
and, foon after this, large quantities were fent over by the gal-
leons: but, the great demands from Europe caufing the inhabitants of Loxa to
adulterate it with other barks, it had like to have loft part of its juft praife. The
quinquina-trees are found at this time on all the chain of mountains adjoining to
Cajanuma, and in many other parts of America.
When bark was firft introduced, it is faid to have been fold for about eight fiiil-
lings fterling the dofe; which great price, with the little effeCls found from it, by
reafon
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL. 5
reafon of their ignorance of the manner of preparing and prefcribing it, occafioned
itsbeing difufed, till about the yeaf 1679, Avhen Mr. Talbot, an Englifh praftitioner
in phytic, brought it into vogue again, by the great number of cures wrought about
the court and city of Paris with this powder, prepared after his manner ;
the fecret
whereof was foon after made public by the munificence of Louis XIV. who reward-
ed Talbot for the difcovery with 5000 crowns. The preparation is about two oun-
ces of the cortex in powder, digetled in a fand-heat, with about a quart of red wine i
after digeftion, the winemuft be poured off, and two or three ounces given every
three or four hours between the paroxyfms, till the intention is anfwered.
The quinquina is fold either in bark or in powder : thofe who buy it in the bark
raufi; choofe it very dry and compadt ;
fuch as has never been moiftened, and w’hich
will break clofe and fmootb, is friable between the teeth, is eafily pulverized, and
yields a powder of a pale cinnamon-colour. It has a mufty kind of fmell, and yet
fo much of the aromatic as not to be difagreeable. The inferior kinds, when bro-
ken, appear woody, and on chewing feparate into fibres. The female bark is confl-
derably thicker, whiter on the outfide, redder within, and weaker in fmell and tafte„
than the former, and much inferior in medicinal virtue. The fmall fine quilled
barks, fiiagreened wdthout and reddifli within, of a bitter mufty tafte, are the moft
efteemed. The powder muft be w'ell fifted, and care be taken to buy it of perfons
that may be trufted ;
it being very eafy to fophifticate it, and difficult to find out
the fraud. The red bark, lately brought into reputation by the experiments of the
ingenious Dr. Saunders, poffeffes the virtues of the common bark in a much
higher degree. A quantity of it was introduced to London, as part of the cargo,
of a Spanifli fliip from Lima, taken by an Englifh frigate in 1779, and carried
into Lifbon. Whether this is the bark of the trunk of full-grown trees, the bran-
ches, or young trees yielding the pale bark, or whether the trees be of different
fpecies, is not yet accurately determined. In the province of Santa-Fe, there
have been lately difcovered two. kinds of cinchona ;
one of which, is the red bark
of Peru ;
and the other, one of the white fpecies.
The cortex is a bitter, abforbent, and aftringent, or ftyptic : from its. bitternefs,
M. Reneaume obferves it becomes fit to foften four acrimonious juices ; for a four
and a bitter make a fweet. Again, as an abforbent, it blunts the points of acids,,
and prevents their action; and, of confequence, preferves the fluidity of the juices,
which acids would coagulate. As a ftyptic, it muft have earthy parts to abforb
ferofities, by which the parts, before moiftened and relaxed, will contrail them-
felves ;
and, by this means, the cortex augments the fpring and tenlion of 4ie fibres.
As a bitter, it warms j
and it faciliates perfpiration by warming and augmenting.
No. afi. M the
6 APPENDIX TO
the fluidity of the juices. Its primary operation is that of ftrengthening the folids.
On thefe properties it is that its medical ufes are founded. Its chief operation
is in curing of agues, and intermitting fevers ;
for which purpofe it is applied in all
ages and moil conftitutions. It produces this effedl better than any other me-
dicine of the fame intention, in the ratio of 365 to 1. It is ufual to give a gentle
emetic of ipecacuanha before the exhibition of the cortex : by thus preparing the
paifages, the cortex has not only more fuccefs, but alfo is not fubjedt to caufe
thofe indifpofitions, viz. fwelling in the belly, naufeas, &c. which often arife when
fuch preparation is neglefted. The cortex muft never be exhibited in the paroxyfm
of an ague, or intermitting fever ;
but given in fuch a quantity, at times, between
the paroxyfms, as to prevent a return of the fit. The cortex exhibited in con-
tinual fevers, is held dangerous ;
and care muft be taken, that the remiffion of a
continual fever be not miftaken for its intermiffion, which happens at particular
or ftated times. The cortex is given feveral ways, viz. in powder, in form of
eledluary, extra6l, bolus, infufion, timfture, &c. When the ftomach will bear it,
the preparation in very fine powder is the moft ufeful and agreeable.
If the bark take downward, Venice treacle, diafcordium, conferveof rofes, terra
Japonica, dofes of laudanum, &c. muft be added to its preparations. When there
happens to be an obftru6iion of the menfes from the exhibition of the cortex, or
to prevent it, it is advifeable to add to its preparations black hellebore, asthiops
mineral, cinnabar, &c. The cortex is often ufed for young children in agues, by
way of clyfter ;
and alfo applied to the wrifts, and foies of the feet, wrought up in
a ftiff mafs, with turpentine, Venice treacle, &c. which ufually anfwers the purpofe.
John Helvetius, phyfician to the King of France, above fixty years ago, wrote a
book entirely upon the fubjed; of curing agues by giving the cortex clyfter-wife ;
in which he pretends, that this is a more fafe, and no lefs certain, than when it is
given by the mouth. Dr. Cockburn, in his Treatife of Sea Difeafes, aflerts the
contrary : he alleges, that the cortex given inwardly is as fafe^ and much more
certain and expeditious ;
and notes, that we know how to remedy' all the incon-
veniences the cortex may occafion. Dr. Sydenham, and after him Mr. Reneaume
and others, have prefcribed the cortex, with fuccefs, in melancholic and hyfteric
'
affeftions, commonly called vapours.
The virtues of this medicine are at this timefufficiently known; but thelargenefs
of its dofe in the common forms of powder, or infufion in wine or in water, are
great difadvantages ;
and our common methods of giving it in the extradt or refin,
as we prepare them, not certain, nor without inconvenience. Mr. Geoffrey has
attempted a method of giving the bark in all its efficacy, without its ill tafte, and in
one
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL. 7
one third of the ufual dofe, by means of its dry extradl ;
twenty-four grains of
which, it is afferted, contain the whole efficacy of a dram of the choiceft bark in
powder. Hence it appears very evident, that when we take the bark in fiibftance,
it is only about a third pare of what we are forced to fwallow that can be of any ufe
to us ;
and that the fame portion is all we can expeft in the virtues of any deco6lion
or infufion of it. Mem. Acad. Sci. Par. 1758.
Wine, w'hich is a liquor partly aqueous, partly faline, and partly fpirituous, is
a menftruum much properer to extract the virtues of the bark than mere water,
as it is much more able to dilTolve the juices or fap condenfed and infpiffated in
the bark of the tree; and for this reafon a ftrong infufion of bark in this menftruum
remains clear, and keeps the refm fufpended when cold ;
in which refpedl: it differs
from the infufion in boiling water when cooled, as the refin precipitates itfelf.
Thus it is the fire alone which can fufpend the refin in a watery infufion of the
bark ;
and in a vinous one, the fpirituous and inflammable part of the liquor does
the fame thing : and as the refin of the bark, which there is great reafon to believe
poffeffes all the virtues of that medicine, is wholly precipitated from watery infu-
fions when cold, it has been faid there can be but very little dependence placed on
the common clear infufions in this menftruum the remaining tafte in thefe infu-
fions is only a faint bitternefs, which arifes from the gummofe and faline parts of
the dried juices of the bark : the whole concrete, which alone poffeffes the virtue
of the medicine, being of the nature ofthofe bodies properly called gum reJins, which'
are but very imperfedlly foluble in water, and of which wine is the proper diffolvent^
It has been found, that cold water, afting more gradually than boiling water, ex-
trafts both the gummy and refinous principles of bark. And infufions made by
macerating one ounce of bark in fine powder, in eight or twelve of water,, without
heat, for twenty-four (or even twelve) hours, have been fuccefsfully adminiftered
in dofes ( of the clear liquor) of two or three ounces. It is a common opinion, that
bark in fubftance is more effe6lual than any preparation of it. LewiSf Mat. Med.
Peruvian bark has been found very effedlual in preventing colds. The method
in which it was ufed, in a cafe mentioned in the Philofophical Tranfa6lions, wasy
after due preparation by bleeding or purging, to take two ounces of it every fpring
and fall. By this method, an habitual taking of cold, and a confequent fore throat,
was cured. Phil. Tranf. No. 478. p. 3.
The antifeptic power of the bark has been abundantly evinced, and we have
many accounts of its great effedts in the cure of gangrenes and mortifications. See
Med. Eff. Edinb. vol. iii. art. 5. We have alfo feveral accounts of the good effeSls
of this medicine in ulcers and the fmall-pox, and alfo in fcrophulous complaints.
The
8 APPENDIX TO
The bark probably in cafes of this kind throws off by fermentation a quantity
of fubtile vapour, or fixed air, which is fufficient to faturate the acrimonious mat-
ter ;
and, even when the putrefadlion has made farther advances, larger quantities
of this medicine will difcharge more of the antifeptic vapour, which, reaching the
blood, w'ill reftore its confiftence, and correct its fiiarpnefs. Macbride’s Effays,
edit. 3. p. 140, &c. The bark has alfo been applied, in conjundtion with other
medicines, to the cure of periodical head-acbs, hyfterical, hypochondriacal, ver-
tiginous, and epileptic, complaints. And it is a very ufeful medicine in weaknefs
of the ftomach, uterine fluxes, and fundry chronical difeafes proceeding from a
laxity and debility of the fibres.
Many inftaaces are recorded by medical writers of the jaundice, dropfy, afthma,
and all the train of nervous diforders, brought on in a furprifing fliort time after
an injudicious adminiftration of the bark : among others, the curious may confult
the Med. Eff. Edinb. vol. iv. art. 24. The Peruvian bark is difcovered to be
effedlual in the cure of mortifications from an internal caufe. The hiftory of this
difcovery is : In 1713, Mr. Rufliworth, furgeon in Northampton, gave it to a
patient labouring under a mortification ;
and, having afterwards other proofs of
its good effedts in this difeafe, communicated his difcovery in 1731. Mr. Amyand
foon tried it in fuch cafes, and found it fuccefsful in feven. Mr. John Douglas
confirmed this by the hiftory of a patient of his, which he publiflied in 1732; and
Mr. Shipton foon after related his fuccefs by this medicine to the Royal Society.
Mr. Rufliworth and Mr. Amyand confirmed its ufe in mortifications from an in-
ternal caufe ;
the former thinks it is not proper in all cafes of that kind, particu-
larly where there is no intermiffion in the fever. Mr. Douglas feems to think it
will fucceed in all mortifications. All thefe three gentlemen gave half a dram for
adofeevery fourth hour. Mr. Shipton increafed the dofe of two fcruples, and
gave it while the fever continued. He propofed to have it tried in nomag, pha-
gedenas, herpes, or other chironion ulcers.
Some call the gentian-root the European quinquina, becaufe goofl againft in-
termitting fevers. The fea-fide beech of Jamaica, or Cinchona Carribaia of
Linnaeus, is a fpecies of the Jefuits’ bark, produced in Jamaica and the Carribee
iflands, which, together with its virtues, has been accurately defcribed by Dr.
Wright, who found it very efficacious in the dangerous remittent fevers of the
Weft Indies ;
and it has been lately adminiftered in London in intermittents, in
which it has effected a cure as completely as the Peruvian bark. jFhi/. Tranf.
Toh Ixvii. 504. Med, Com. vol. v. p. 398. part 2.
BREAD-
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL, 9
BREAD-FRUIT TREE. Artocarpus.
THIS tree is called artocarpus, (from «fTo?, bread, and x«?7roj, fruit ;)
and is a
genus of the monandria order, belonging to the monoecia clafs, of plants. It has
a cylindric amentum or catkin, which thickens gradually, and is covered with flow-
ers ;
the male and female in a different amentum. In the male, the calyx is two-
valved, and the corolla is wanting. In the female, there is no calyx nor corolla ;
the ftylus is one, and the drupa is many-celled.
Though this tree has been mentioned by many voyagers, particularly by Dam-
pier, by Rumphius, and by Lord Anfon, yet very little notice feems to have been
taken of it till the return of Captain Wallis from the South Seas, and fince that
time by others who have touched at Otaheite, and fome other countries in the Eaft-
Indies. Captain Dampier relates, that in Guam, one of the Ladrone iflands,
“ there is a certain fruit called the bread-fruit, growing on a tree as big as our large
apple-trees, with dark leaves. The fruit is round, and grows on the boughs like
apples, of the bignefs of a good penny loaf ;
when ripe, it turns yellow, foft, and
fweet : but the natives take it green, and bake it in an oven till the rind is black ; this
they fcrape off, and eat the infide, which is foft and white, like the infide of new-
baked bread, having neither feed nor ftone ;
but, if it is kept above twenty-four
V hours, it is harfli. As this fruit is in feafon eight months in the year, the natives feed
upon no other fort of bread during that time. They told us that all the Ladrone
iflands had plenty of it. I never heard Of it in any other place.”
Rumphius, after defcribing the tree, obferves, that “ the fruit is fhaped like a
heart, and increafes to the fize of a child’s head. Its furface or rind is thick, green,,
and covered every-where with warts of a quadragonal or hexagonal figure, like cut
diamonds, but without points. The more flat and fmooth thefe warts are, the fewer
feeds are contained in the fruit, and the greater is the quantity of pith, and that of
a more glutinous nature. The internal part of the rind, or peel, confifts of a flefliy
fubftance, full of twilled fibres, which have the appearance of fine wool ; thefe ad-
here to, and in fome meafure form, it. The flefliy part of this fruit becomes fofter
towards the middle, where there is a fmall cavity formed without any nuts or feeds,
except in one fpecies, which has but a fmall number ;
and this fort is not good, un-
lefs it is baked or prepared fome other way ; but, if the outward rind be taken off, and
the fibrous flefli dried, and afterwards boiled with meat, as we do cabbage, it has then
the tafte of artichoke-bottoms. The inhabitants of Amboyna drefs it in the liquor
of cocoa-nuts ; but they prefer it roafted on coals till the outward part or peel is
burnt. They afterwards cut it into pieces, and eat it with the milk of the cocoa-nut.
No. 26. C Some
10 APPENDIX TO
Some people make fritters of it, or fry it in oil ; and others, as the Sumatrians,
dry the internal foft part, and keep it to ufe inftead of bread with other food. It
affords a great deal of nouriiliment, and is very fatisfying ;
therefore proper for
hard-working people ;
and, being of a gentle aftringent quality, is good for perfons
of a laxative habit of body.
“ It is more nourifhing boiled in our manner, with fat meat, than roafted on
coals. The milky juice which diftils from the trunk, boiled with the cocoa-nut oil,
makes a very flrong bird-lime. This tree is to be found on the eaftern parts of
Sumatra, and in the Malay language is called foccus and foccum capas. It grows
likewife about the town of Bantam, in Java, and in Ballega and Madura; and is
known there by the name ofJoccumy
In Anfon’s voyage we are informed, “ that the rima, or bread-fruit tree, is
common in all the Ladrone iflands, and fome of the Philippines. It is fomewhat
larger than our apple-tree, and bears a broad dark-coloured leaf with five inden-
tures on each fide. The fruit hangs on boughs like apples, and is of the fize of a
penny loaf, with a thick tough rind, which when full ripe turns yellow. The natives
gather it before it is quite ripe, and bake it till the cruft is pretty black ;
then they
rafp it, and there remains a pretty loaf, with a tender yellow cruft, and the crumb
of it is foft and fweet as a new-baked roll : it is without any feeds or ftones. This
fruit the inhabitants enjoy for about feven months; during which they never eat
any other kind of bread : but they are obliged to bake it every day; for, when it
grows a little ftale, it becomes harfh and hufky, fomewhat like the potatoe-bread
made in the weft of England. There is, however, a remedy for this; which is
cutting the loaf into flices when it is new, and drying it in the fun, by which it is
changed into the pleafanteft rufk that can be eaten.”
Captain Cook, in his voyage, obferves, that this fruit not only ferves as a fub-
ftitutefor bread among the inhabitants of Otaheite and the neighbouring iflands, but
alfo, varioufly dreffed, compofes the principal part of their food. It grows on a
tree that is about the fize of a middling oak; its leaves are frequently a foot and a
half long, of an oblong lhape, deeply finuated like thofe of the fig-tree, which they
refemble in colour and confiftence, and in the exfuding of a milky juice upon being
broken. The fruit is about the fize and fliape of a new-born child’s head ;
and the
furface is reticulated, not much unlike a truffle ;
it is covered with a thin fkin, and
has a core about as big as the handle of a fmall knife. The eatable part lies between
the fldn and the core; it is as white as fnow, and fomewhat of the confiftence of new
bread ;
it muft be roafted before it is eaten, being firft divided into three or four
parts ;
its tafte is infipid, with a flight fweetnefs fomewhat refembling that of the
crumb
CULPEPER'S BRITISH HERBAL. 11
crumb of wheaten bread mixed with a Jerufalem artichoke. This fruit is alfo cook-
ed in a kind of oven, which renders it foft, and fomething like a boiled potatoe ;
not
quite fo farinaceous as a good one, but more fo than thofe of the middling fort. Of
the bread-fruit they alfo make three diflies, by putting either water or the milk of
the cocoa-nut to it, then beating it to a pafte with a ftone peftle, and afterwards
mixing it with ripe plantains, bananas, or the four pafte which they call mahie.
The mahie, which is likewife made to ferve as fuccedaneum for ripe bread-fruit
'before the feafon comes on, is' thus made : The fruit of the bread tree is gathered
juft before it is perfectly ripe ;
and, being laid in heaps, is clofely covered with
leaves : in this ftate it undergoes a fermentation, and becomes difagreeably fweet
:
the core is then taken out entire, which is done by gently pulling out the ftalk, and
the reft of the fruit is thrown into a hole which is dug for that purpofe generally in
the houfes, and neatly lined in the bottom and fides with grafs : the whole is then
covered with leaves, and heavy ftones laid upon them ;
in this ftate it undergoes a
fecond fermentation, and becomes four, after which it will fuffer no change for
many months. It is taken out of the hole as it is wanted for ufe ;
and, being made
into balls, it is wrapped up into leaves and baked : after it is dreffed, it will keep
five or fix weeks. It is eaten both cold and hot; and the natives feldom make a
meal without it, though to Europeans the tafte is as difagreeable as that of a pickled
olive generally is the firft time it is eaten. The fruit itfelf is in feafon eight months
in the year; and the mahie fupplies the inhabitants during the other four.
To procure this principal article of their food (the bread-fruit) cofts thefe happy
people no trouble or labour except climbing up a tree. The tree which produces
it does not indeed grow fpontaneoufly ;
but, if a man plants ten of them in his
lifetime, which he may do in about an hour, he will as completely fulfil his duty
to his own and future generations as the native of our lefs temperate climate can
do by ploughing in the cold of winter, and reaping in the fummer’s heat, as often
as thefe feafons return ;
even, if, after he has procured bread for his prefent houfe-
hold, he ftiould convert a furplus into money, and lay it up for his children.
There are two fpecies of artocarpus, viz. the incifus, with gaflied leaves ;
and the
integrifolia, with entire leaves. There is alfo faid to be another diftinftion, into
that which bears fruit with ftones or feeds, and that in which the fruit has none.
The parts of frudtification of that tree which bears the fruit without ftones are de-
fedtive. The amentum, or catkin, which contains the male parts, never expands.
The ftyli, or female part of the fruit, are likewife deficient. From w'hich it follows
that there can be no ftones or feeds, and therefore that this tree can be propagated
only by fuckers or layers ;
although it is abundantly evident that it muft originally
have
12 APPENDIX TO
have proceeded from the feed-bearing bread-fruit tree. Inftances of this kind vre
fometimes find in European fruits; fuch as the barberry, and the Corinthian grape
from Zant, commonly called currants, which can therefore be increafed only by
layers and cuttings. Dr. Solander was affured by the oldefl; inhabitants of Otaheite
and the adjoining iflands, that they well remember there was formerly plenty of the
feed-bearing bread-fruit ; but they had been negle6led upon account of the pre-
ference given to the bread-fruit without feeds, which they propagate by fuckers.
CASHEW-NUT TREE. Anacardium.
ANACARDIUM, the cafhew-nut tree, is a genus of the monogynia order,
belonging to the decandria clafs, of plants ;
and in the natural method ranking
under the twelfth order, holoraceae. The charadlers are: The calyx is divided
into five parts, the divifions ovate and deciduous ; the corolla confifts of five re-
fledted petals, twice the length of the calyx ;
the ftamina confift of ten capillary
filaments fhorter than the calyx, one of them caftrated ;
the antherae are fmall
and roundilli : the piftil has a roundifii germen ;
the ftylus is fubulated, infledled,
and the length of the corolla; the ftigma oblique: there is no pericarpium; the re-
ceptaculum is very large and flefliy : the feed is a large kidney-fliaped nut, placed
above the receptaculum.
Of this only one fpecies is as yet known to the botanifts, viz. the occidentale.
It grows naturally in the Well Indies, and arrives at the height of 20 feet in thofe
places of which it is a native ;
but cannot be preferved in Britain without the great
eft difficulty. The fruit of this tree is as large as an orange ;
and is full of an acid
juice, which is frequently ufed in making punch. To the apex of this fruit
grows a nut, of the fize and lhape of a hare’s kidney, but much larger at the end
which is next the fruit than at the other. The fiiell is very hard ;
and the kernel^
which is fweet and pleafant, is covered with a thin film. Between this and the ftiell
is lodged a thick, blackifh, inflammable,^liquor, of fuch a cauftic nature in the frefii
nuts, that, if the lips chance to touch it, blifters will immediately follow. The
kernels are eaten raw, roafted, or pickled. The cauftic liquor juft mentioned is
efteemed an excellent cofmetic with the Weft-India young ladies, but they muft
certainly fuffer a great deal of pain in its application ;
and, as fond as our Britiffi fe-
males are of a beautiful face, it is highly probable they would never fubmit to be
flayed alive to obtain one. When any of the former fancy tbemfelves too much tan-
ned by the fcorching, rays of the fun, they gently fcrape off the thin outfide of the
ftiell, and then rub theirvfaces all over with the ftone, Their faces immediately
fwell
76
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL.
fwell and grow .black: and the Ikin, being poifoned by the cauftic oil above-men-
tioned, will in the fpace of five or fix days come entirely off in large flakes, fo that
they cannot appear in public in lefs than a fortnight, by which time the new ikin
looks as fair as that of a new-born child. The negroes in Brafil cure them-felves
effe6lually of diforders in the ftomach by eating of the yellow fruit of this tree; the
juice of which, being acid, cuts the thick tough humours which obftrudled the free
circulation of the blood, and thus removes the complaint. This cure, however, is
not voluntary : for their mailers, the Portuguefe, deny them any other fuflenance;
a/id letting them loofe to the woods, where the cafliew-nuts grow in great abundance,
leave it in their option to perifli by famine, or fullain themfelves with this fruit.
The milky juice of this tree will flain linen of a good black, which cannot be
wafhed out.
This plant is eafily railed from the nuts, which fliould be planted each in a fepa-
rate pot filled with fight fandy earth, and plunged into a good hot-bed of tanners’
bark; they luuft alfo be kept from moifture till the plants come up, otherwife the
npts are apt to rot. If the nuts are frefh, the plants will come up in about a month ;
and in two months more they will be four or five inches high, with large leaves r
from which quick progrefs many people have been deceived, imagining they would
cpntinue the like quick growth afterwards ;
but, with all the care that can be taken,
they never exceed the height of two feet and a half, and for the moft part fcarcely
half as much. The Indians eat the nuts flightly roafted, dipped in water or wine,
and fprinkfed with fait, as a provocative to venery, to which they are found a mop:
remarkable ftimulus. The juice will flop a diarrhoea, and cure a diabetes ; aitp
tfie oilis ufed by paintprs to give their cplours a lafling black, and to preferve wood
from putrefadlion.
CANELLA ALBA, on WHITE CINNAMON.
THE canella is ,a genus of the monogynia order, belonging to the dodecandria
clafs, of plants ;
and in the natural method ranking under the twelfth order, hoilora-
eete. The qalyx is tbree-lobjed; the petals are five; the antherse fixteen, growing
to an urceolated or.bladder-fl>aped ne6larium ;
and the fruit is atricocular berry,
with two feeds. There js but one, fpecies, the alba; which grows ufually about
twenty feet high, app ejght or ten, inches in thicknefs, in the thick woods of moft
pf the Bahama iflands. The leaves are naiTpyv at the ftalkv growing wider at their
ends, which.are brqad und rounding, having a middle rib only; they are very fmooth,
and pf a light fhinjng green. In Mgy and June fhe ^flowers, which are pentapeta-
lous, come forth in clupers at the ends qf the branches : they are red, and very fra-
grant; and.pre fucceeded by rouqcf fierries, of t^e fize pf lai^e peafe, green, apd when
No. 27. D ripe
14 APPENDIX TO
ripe (which is in February) purple, containing two fliining black feeds, flat on one
fide, otherwife not unlike in lhape to a kidney-bean : thefe feeds in the berry are en-
veloped in a (limy mucilage. The whole plant is very aromatic, the bark particu-
larly, being more ufed in diftilling, and in greater efteem, in the more northern parts
of the world than in Britain.
The bark is the canella alba of the Ihops. It is brought to us rolled up into long
quills, thicker than cinnamon, and both outwardly and inwardly of a whitilli co-
lour, lightly inclining to yellow. Infufions of it in water are' of a yellowifh colour,
and fmell of the canella ;
but they are rather bitter than aromatic. Tinctures in
re6tified fpirit have the warmth of the bark, but little of its fmell. Proof-fpirit
diffolves the aromatic as well as the bitter matter of the canella, and is therefore
the beft menflruum.
The canella is the interior bark freed from an outward thin rough one, and dried
in the fliade. The fhops diftinguifh two forts of canella, differing in the length and
thicknefs of the quills: they are both the bark of the fame tree; the thicker'being
taken from the trunk, "and the thinner from the branches. This bark is a warm
pungent aromatic, though not of the moft agreeable kind ;
nor are any of the pre-
parations of it very grateful.
Canella alba is often employed where a warm ftimulant to the ftomach is necef-
fary, and as a corrector of other articles. It is now^, however, little ufed in com-
pofitions by the London College ;
the only officinal formula which it enters being
the pulvis aloeticus : but with the Edinburgh College it is an ingredient in the
tinftura amara, vinum amarum, vinum rhei, &c. It is ufeful as covering the
tafte of fome other articles.—This bark has been confounded with that called
winter’s bark, which belongs to a very different tree.
COFFEE-TREE. Coffea.
THE coffee-tree is fuppofed to be a native of Arabia Felix. It feldom rifes more
than fixteen or eighteen feet in height; the main ftem grows upright, and is covered
with a light-brown bark ;
the branches are produced horizontally and oppofite,
croffing each other at every joint; fo that every fide of the tree is fully garnifhed
with them, and they form a fort of pyramid. The leaves alfo Hand oppofite ;
and,
when fully grown, are about four or five inches long, and tw'o broad in the middle,
decreafing toward each end; the borders are w aved, and the furface is of a lucid
green. The flowers are produced in duffers at the root of the leaves, fitting clofe
to the branches ;
they are tubulous, and fpread open at the top, where they are
divided into five parts; they are of a pure white, and have a very grateful odour, but
are of fhort duration. The fruit, which is the only ufeful part, refembles a cherry.
It
. v-r
ti'
,,.
4
'
/
/.S -
' '
M
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL. 15
It grows in clufters, and is ranged along the branches under the axillte of the leaves,
of the fame green as the laurel, but fomething longer. When it comes to be of a
deep red, it is gathered for the mill, in order to be manufactured into thofe coffee-
beans now fo generally known. The mill is compofed of two .wooden rollers fur-
nifhed with iron plates eighteen inches long, and ten on twelve in diameter. Thefe
moveable rollers are made to approach a third which is fixed, and which they call
the chops. Above the rollers is a hopper, in which they put the coffee, from whence
it falls between the rollers and the chops, where it is ftripped of its firft tkin, and
divided into two parts, as may be feen by the forms of it after it has undergone this
operation ;
being flat on the one fide and round on the other. From this machine
it falls into a brafs fieve, where the fkin drops between the w'ires, w'hile the fruit Hides
over them into baflcets placed ready to receive it : it is then thrown into a velfel full
of water, where it foaks for one night, and is afterwards thoroughly waflied. When
the w'hole is finiflied, and well dried, it is put into another machine called the peel-
ing-mill. This is a wooden grinder, turned vertically upon its trendle by a mule or
a horfe. In paffing over the coffee it takes off the parchment, which is nothing but
a thin fkin that detaches itfelf from the berry in proportion as it grows dry. The
parchment being removed, it is taken out of this mill to be put into another, which
is called the winnowing-mill. This machine is provided with four pieces of tin
fixed upon an axle, which is turned by a Have with confiderable force; and the
wind that is made by the motion of thefe plates clears the coffee of all the pellicles
that are mixed with it. It is afterwards put upon a table, where the broken ber-
ries, and any filth that may remain among them, are feparated by negroes; after
which the coffee is fit for fale. The coffee-tree is cultivated in Arabia, Perfia, the
Edft-Indies, the Ifle of Bourbon, and feveral parts of America. It is alforaifed
in botanic gardens in many parts of Europe. Prince Eugene’s garden at Vienna
produced more coffee than was fufficient for his own confumption. It delights
particularly in hills and mountains, where its root is almoft always dry, and its head
frequently watered with gentle fhowers. It prefers a weftern afpebl, and ploughed
ground without any appearance of grafs. The plants Ihould be placed at eight
feet diftance from each other, and in holes twelve or fifteen inches deep. If left to
themfelves, they would rife to the height of fixteen or eighteen feet, as already ob-
ferved ; but tlTey are generally Hinted to five, for the conveniency of gathering their
fruit with the greater eafe. Thus dwarfed, they extend their branches fo, that they
cover the whole fpot round about them. They begin to yield fruit the third year,
but are not in full bearing till the fifth. With the fame infirmities that moft other
trees are fubjeft to, thefe are likewife in danger of being deftroyed by a worm or by
the fcorching rays of the fun. The hills where the coffee-trees are found have ge-
6 neral y
16 APPENDIX TO
nerally a gravelly or chalky bottom. In the laft, it languifhes for fome time and
then dies : in the former, its roots, which feldom fail of ftriking between ftones, ob-
tain nourifliment, and keep the tree alive and fruitful for thirty years. This is nearly
the period for plants of the coffee-tree. The proprietor, at the end of this period,
not only finds himfelf without trees, but has his land fo reduced, that it is not fit
for any kind of culture ;
and, unlefs he is fo fituated, that he can break up a fpot
of virgin land, to make himfelf amends for that which is totally exhaufled by the
coffee-trees, bis lofs is irreparable.
The coffee produced in Arabia is found fo greatly to excel that raifed in the Ame-
rican plantations or elfewhere, that the cultivation of the tree is now but feldom
pra6lifed in any of the Britifli colonies. Large plantations of this kind were for-
merly made in fome of them ; and it was propofed to the parliament to give a pro-
per encouragement for cultivating this commodity there, fo as to enable the plant-
ers to underfell the importers from Arabia. Accordingly there was an abatement
of the duty payable on all coffee imported from our colonies in America, which at
that time w'as fuppofed to be fufficient encouragement for this kind of commerce;
but the inferiority of the American coffee to the Arabian almoft ruined the project.
The late Mr. Miller propofed fome improvements in the method of cultivation.
According to him, the trees are planted in too moift a foil, and the berries are
gathered too foon. They ought, he fays, to be permitted to remain on the trees
till their fkins are flirivelled, and they fall from the trees when fhaken. This will
indeed greatly diminjfh their weight, but the value of the commodity will thereby
be increafed to raOre than double of that which ie gathered fooner. In Arabia, they
always fhake the berries off the trees, fpreading cloths Jto receive them, and only
take fuch as readily fall at each time. Another caufe may be the method of drying
the berries. They are, he obferves, very apt to imbibe moifture, or the flavour of
any thing placed near them. A bottle of rum placed in a clofet in which a canifter
of coffee-berries clofely flopped was Handing on a fhelf at a confiderable diflance,
in a few days fo impregnated the berries as to render them very difagreeable : the
fame has alfo happened by a bottle of fpirit of wine Handing in the fame clofet with
coffee and tea, both which were in a few days fpoiled by it. Some years ago, a
coffee-fhip from India had a few bags of pepper put on-board, the flavour of which
was imbibed by the coffee, and the whole cargo fpoiled. For thefe reafons, Mr.
Miller dire6ls that coffee-berries fhould never be brought over in fhips freighted
with rum, nor laid to dry in the houfes where fugars are boiled or rum diflilled.
When they are fully ripe, they fhould be fhaken off while the trees are perfedlly dry,
and fpread upon cloths in the fun, carrying them every evening under cover, to
prevent the dews or rain from falling on them. When perfe(5lly dry, they fhould
have
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAU 17
have their outer flcins beaten off, and then be carefully packed up in cloths or bags
three or four times double.
The coffee-tree, as we have already obferved, is fometimes cultivated in European
gardens : but for this it requires the affiftance of a ftove. It makes a fine appear-
ance at all feafons of the year (being an evergreen), but efpecially when in flower,
and when the berries are red, which is generally in the winter, fo that they con-
tinue a long time in that Rate. It is propagated from the berries : but they muft be
planted immediately when gathered from the tree, for they lofe their vegetative
quality in a very fliort time; when they have been fent abroad, they have conRantly
failed in thofe that have been a fortnight on their journey ; fo that, where thefe
trees are defired, the young plants muft be fent, if it be at any diftance from the
place where they grow. The frefti berries may be planted in fmall pots, and plunged,
into a hot-bed of tanner’s bark. If the bed be of a proper temperature, the
young plants will appear in a month or five weeks time; and in fix weeks more will
be ready for tranfplanting intp feveral pots. During fummer, they muft be frequently
watered ; but not in too great plenty, otherwife the roots will be apt to rot. The
firft fign of the plants being difordered is their leaves fweating out a clammy juice ;
after which they are over-run with infedls, that cannot be deftroyed till the plants
have recovered their health ; fo that, on the firft appearance of thefe infeifts,
the trees fliould be removed into frefti earth, and all poflihle care taken to recover,
them. The diforders incident to them, generally proceed either from their having
been put into large pots, or from the earth about them being too ftilF or over-watered..
The moft, proper foil for them is that of a kitchen-garden, which is naturally loofe,.
and not fubjedlto bind, efpecially if it has conftantly been well wrought and dunged.
Explanation of the Plate.
a, reprefents the flower, cut open to ftiow the fituation of the five filaments,
with their fummits lying upon them.
h, the flower-cup, with its four fmall indentations, inclofing the germen, or
embryo feed-veffel ;
froin. the middle of which arifes the ftyle, terminated by. the,
two reflexed fpongy tops.
c, the fruit entire ;
marked at the top with a pun^ure, like a navel.
dy the fruit open, to ftiow that it confifts of two feeds ;
which are furrounded
by the pulp.
e, the fruit cut horizontally, to ftiow the feeds as they are placed eredl, with
their flat fides together.
f, one of the feeds taken out, with the membrane or parchment upon it.
g, the fame, with the parchment torn open, to give/a view of the feed.
Ti, the feed without the parchment.
.
No. 27. The
E
18 APPENDIX TO
The origin of coffee as a common drink is not well known. -Some afcribe it to
the prior of a monaftery ;
who, being informed by a goat-herd, that his cattre fome-
times browzing on the tree would awake and caper all night, became curious to prove
its virtue : accordingly, he firft tried it on his monks, to prevent their fleeping at
matins. Others, from Sehehabeddin, refer the firft ufe of coffee to the Perfians :
from whom it was learned in the 15th century by Gemaleddin, mufti of Aden, a
city near the mouth of the Red Sea; and who, having tried its virtues himfelf, and
found that it diftipated the fumes which oppreffed the head, infpired joy, opened the
bowels, and prevented deep, without being incommoded by it, recommended it firft
to his dervifes, with whom he ufed to fpend the night in prayer. Their example
brought coffee into vogue at Aden ;
the profeffors of-the law for ftudy, artifans to
work, travellers to walk in the night, in fine, every body at Aden drank coffee.
Hence it paffed to Mecca ; where firft the devotees, then the reft of the people,
took it. From Arabia Felix it pafled to Cairo. In 151 1, Kahie Beg prohibited it,
from a perfuafion that it inebriated, and inclined to things forbidden. But Sultan
Caufou foon after took off the prohibition ;
and coffee advanced from Egypt to
Syria and Conftantinopie. Thevenot, the traveller, w'as the firft who brought it
into France; and a Greek fervant, named Pafqua, brought into England by Mr.
Daniel Edw'ards, a Turkey merchant, in 1652, to make his coffee, firft fet up the
profeftion of coffee-man, and introduced the drink into this ifland.
In the year 1714, the magiftrates of Amftel’dam, in order to pay a compliment
to Louis XIV. king of France, prefented to him an elegant plant of this rare tree,
carefully and judicioufly packed up to go by water, and defended from the weather
by a curious machine covered with glafs. The plant was about five feet high, an
inch in diameter in the ftem, and was in full foliage, with both green and ripe
fruit. It was viewed in the river, with great attention and curiofity, by feveral
members of the Academy of Sciences, and was afterwards carried to the royal
garden at Marly, under the care of Monlieur de Juftieu, the king’s profeffor of
botany ;
who had, the year before, written a memoir, printed in the Hiftory of the
Academy of Sciences of Paris, defcribing the charadters of this genus, together
with an elegant figure of it, taken from a fmaller plant, which he had received
that year from Mynheer Pancras, burgomafter of Amfterdam, and diredtor of the
botanical garden there.
In 1718, the Dutch colony at Surinam began firft to plant coffee; and, in 1723,
Monfieur de la Motte Aigron, governor of Cayenne, having bufinefs at Surinam,
contrived, by an artifice, to bring away a plant from thence, which, in the year
1725, had produced many thoufiands.
In
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL. 19
In 1727,, the French, perceiving that this acquifition might be of great advantage
in their colonies, conveyed to Martinico fome of the plants ;
from whence it moft
probably fpread to the neigbouring iflands; for, in the year 1732, it was cultivated
in Jamaica, and an a6l paffed to encourage its growth in that ifland.—Thus was
laid the foundation of a moft extenfive and beneficial trade to the European fettle-
ments in the Weft-Indies.
The preparation of coffee confifts in roafting, or giving it a juft degree of torre-
fa6lion, on an earthen or metalline plate, till it has acquired a brownifli hue equally
deep on all fides. It is then ground in a mill, as much as ferves the prefent occa-
iion. A proper quantity of water is next boiled, and the ground coffee put into
it. After it has juft boiled, it is taken from the fire, and, the deco6lion having ftood
a while to fettle and fine, they pour or decant it into difties. The ordinary method
of roafting coffee amongft us is in a tin cylindrical box full of holes, through the
middle whereof runs a fpit ; under this is a femicular hearth, whereon is a large
charcoal-fire: by help of a jack the fpit turns fwift, and fo roafts the berry; be-
ing now and then taken up to be fliaken. When the oil rifes, and it is grown of a
dark-brown colour, it is emptied into two receivers made ' with large hoops whofe
bottoms are iron plates : there the coffee is ftiaken, and left till almoft cold ; and,
if it looks bright and oily, it is a fign it is well done.
Very different accounts have been given of the medicinal qualities of this berry.
To determine its real effefts on the human body. Dr. Percival has made feveral
experiments, the refult of which he gives in the following words :
“ From thefe ob-
fervations we may infer, that coffee is flightly aftringent, and antifeptic ; that it mo-
derates alimentary fermentation, and is powerfully fedative. Its adtion on the ner-
vous fyftem probably depends on the oil it contains ;
which receives its flavour,
and is rendered mildly empyreumatic, by the procefs of roafting. Neumann ob-
tained by diftillation from one pound of coffee, five ounces five drams and a half of
water, fix ounces and half a dram of thick fetid oil, and four ounces and two
drams of a caput mortuum. And it is well known, that rye, torrefied with a few
almonds, which furnilh the neceffary proportion of oil, is now frequently employed
as a fubftitute for,thefe berries.
“ The medicinal qualities of coffee feem to be derived from the grateful fen-
fation which it produces in the ftomach, and from the fedative powers it exerts on
the w nitce. Hence it affifts digeftion, and relieves the head-ach ; and is taken
in large quantities, with peculiar propriety, by the Turks and Arabians ; becaufe
it countera6ls the narcotic effects of opium, to the ufe of which thofe nations are
much addicted.
20 APPENDIX TO
“ In delicate habits, it often occafions watchfulnefs, tremors, and many of thofe
complaints which are denominated nervous. It has been even fufpedled of pro-
ducing palfies; and, from my own obfervation, I fhould appjrehend not entirely
without foundation, Slare affirms, that he became paralytic by the too liberal
ufe of coffee, and that his diforder was removed by abftinence from that liquor.
“ The following curious and important obfervation is extradled from a letter
with which I was honoured by Sir John Pringle, in April 1773 :
‘
On reading
your fedtion concerning coffee, one quality occurred to me which I bad obferved
of that liquor, confirming what you have faid of its fedative virtues. It is the beft
abater of the paroxyfm of the periodic aflhma that I have feen. The coffee ought
to be of the beft Mocco, newly burnt, and made very ftrong immediately after
grinding it. I have commonly ordered an ounce for one difli ;
which is to be re-
peated frefli after the interval of a quarter or half an hour ;
and which I diredt to
be taken without milk or fugar. The medicine in general is mentioned by Mufr
grave, in his treatife De Arthritide anomala ; but I firft heard of it from a phyfician
in this place, wdio, having once pradlifed in Litchfield, had been informed by the
old people of that place, that Sir John Floyer, during the latter years of his life,
kept free from, or at leaft lived eafy under, his afthrna, from the ufe of very ftrong
coffee. This difcovery, it feems, he made after the publication of his book upon
that difeafe.’ Since the receipt of that letter, I have frequently diredted coffee in.
the afthrna with great fuccefs.”
FORBIDDEN-FPtUIT TREE. Citrus Medica.
THE forbidden-fruit tree, in trunk, leaves, and flowers, very much refembles
the common orange-tree; butthefiuit, when ripe, is larger and longer than the big7
geft orange. It has fomewhat the tafte of a fhaddock ;
but far exceeds that, as well
as the beft orange, in its delicious tafte and flavour. They are elegant ever-greens,
rifing in this country from about five to ten feet in height; forming full and hand-
fome heads, clofely garniflied with beautiful large leaves all the year round, and put-
ting forth a profufion of fweet flowers in fpring and early in fummer; which even
in this climate are often fucceeded by abundance of fruit that fometimes arrive at
tolerable perfedtion. Though all the varieties were originally obtained by feed, yet
the only certain method of continuing the approved varieties is by budding or
inarching them on ftocks raifed from feed to a proper fize. As the young trees,
however, are brought in plenty from abroad, this method is never prad^ifed in this
country : but, for curiofity, it may be done by thofe who are fo inclined, in the fol-
lowing manner: Early in the fpring procure fome kernels, which may.be had in
plenty from rotten fruits, or others that are properly ripened. Sow the kernels in
g March,
^7
..m ‘
:
~4
-s
.w
«
rs?
‘?l
i",
1''
ff'
; fly.
CULPEPERS BRITISH HERBAL. 21
March, in pots of rich light earth half an inch deep, and plunge them in a hot-bed,
under frames and glafles. Dung or tan may be ufed, but the latter is preferable,
giving air, and frequent fprinklings of water. In two or three weeks, the plants
will come up; and, in fix or eight weeks more, they will be advanced four or five
inches or more in height. You muft now give them more air and water; and
' about the middle of June harden them to the full air, in which let them remain
till Odtober; then move them into the green-houfe, to fland till the fpring; and in
March or April plant them fmgly in fmall pots, being careful to fhake them out of
the feed pots with their roots entire. They muft be watered immediately after
planting, and the watering muft be oceafionally repeated. After this they are to
be treated as w'oody e^;otics of t>he green-houfe ; and in a year or two the largeft
of thofe defigned for flocks will be fit for budding.
The operation for budding is performed in the month of Auguft, and is done in
the common way ;
only the buds muft be taken from trees of a good kind that bear
well. As foon as the operation is finifhed, the pots with their plants muft be placed
' in the green-houfe, or in a glafs-cafe ;
or, where there is the convenience of a fpare
bark-pit, where the heat of the bark is almoft exhaufted, the pots may be plunged
therein for two or three weeks. In either cafe, however, the air muft be admitted
freely by opening the front glaffes ;
allowing alfo ^ flight fhade of mats in the mid-
dle of hot funfhine days, and fupplying them with water every two or three days
during this kind of weather. In three or four weeks the buds will be united with
the flock; when it will be proper to loofen the bandages, that they may have roona
to fwell ;
the buds, however, will all remain dormant till the next fpring. They
may alfo be propagated by inarching, which is done in the common way ; but the
method of budding is found to produce much handfomer trees, and therefore is to
be preferred. But the moft cheap and expeditious method of procpring a collec-
tion of thefe kinds of trees, is by having recourfe to fueh as are imported from Spain,
Italy, and Portugal. Thefe come qver in chefts, without any earth to their roots,
having their roots and heads a little trimmed : they are commonly from one inch to
two or three in diameter in the ftem; from two to four or five feet in height : and
by the afliftance of a bark-bed, they readily take root and grow freely, forming, as
good trees in two years as could be raifed here by inarching or budding in fifteen or
twenty. They are fold in the Italian warehoufes in London. Theip price is from
three fhillings to a guinea each, according to their fize ;
and they are generally ad-
vertifed as foon as they arrive, which is early in the fpring, and the fooner the better^
In the choice of thefe trees, it muft be obferved, that they are commonly budded at
fuch height in the ftem as to form heads from about two to four or five feet high ;
and, as they are frequently furnilhed with two buds, one on each fide of the ftem,,
No. 27. F thefe
22 APPENDIX TO
thefe fliould be ehofen preferably to others; as they will form the moft regular
heads. Preparatory to their planting, they muft be placed for a day or two in tubs
of water to plump their bark and roots; after this they muft be walked and clean-
ed, their branches trimmed to half a foot long, and the roots freed from difeafed
parts, and all the fmall dried fibres. Then they are to be planted in pots filled with
light rich earth ;
and plunged in a tan-bed, where they are to remain for three or
four months ;
after which they are to be trained to the open air, but will not bear
it longer than from the end of May till the middle or end of 06lober.
Sometimes thefe trees, inftead of being kept in pots or tubs, are planted in the
full ground ;
and, where this can be done, it is by far the moft eligible method.
Where this is intended, there muft be frames ere^ed for the fupport of glafs and
other covers, to defend the plants during inclement weather ; and in this fituation
the trees generally ftioot ftrong, produce large fruit, and may be trained either as
wall or ftandard trees. A fouth wall, in a dry fituation, is proper for training them
'
as wall-trees ;
againft which may be eredted wooden frame-work hoping, either
fixed or moveable, for the fupport of glafs frames for winter,* likewife, for the
greater protection of the trees in fevere frofts, there may be a fire-place with a
flue or two carried along a low wall in the fronts and ends. To have the trees as
ftandards, a more capacious and lofty glafs-cafe fliould be ereCted againft the w'all,
in the manner of a hot-houfe, but higher; in this one or two rows may be
planted, fuffering them to run up as ftandards, with only fome neceflary pruning
juft to preferve their regularity. In fome places there are lofty moveable glafs-cafes,
fo that two or three rows of trees are planted in a confpicuous part of the plea-
fure-ground. In winter the frame is put over them, and in fumrner wholly taken
away. The flowering and fruit-fetting feafon of all the forts of citrus is in June
and July. They are often greatly loaded with bloffoms ; and, when thefe ftand
very thick, it is proper to thin them a little, taking off the fmalleft. It is alfo to
be obferved, that, as the trees continue blowing and fetting their fruit for three
months, when a full crop of fruit is fet, it is of benefit to the trees and fruit to
gather off the fuperabundant bloffoms as they are produced, though fome permit
them to remain on account of their appearance.
GARCINIA, OR MANGOSTAN.
THE Garcinia is a genus of the monogynia order, belonging to the dodecandria
clafs, of plants; and in the natural method ranking under the 18th order, bicornes.
The calyx is tetraphyllous inferior; there are four petals; the berries areoClofper-
mous, and crowned with a Ihield-like ftigma. The mangoftana, which is the prin-
cipal
CULPEPER’S BRItlSH HERBAL.
cipal fpecies, is a tree of great elegance, and producing the nioft pleafant fruit of
any yet known.
This tree has been very accurately defcribed by Dr. Garciri, in honour of whom,
as its moft accurate defcriber, Linnasus gave it the name Oarcinia in the 35th vo-
lume of the Philofophical Tranfadtions, It grows, he informs us, feventeen or
eighteen feet high, “ with a ftraight taper ftem like a fir,” having a regular tuft in
form of an oblong cone, compofed of many branches and twigs, fpreading out
equally on all fides, without leaving any hollow. Its leaves, he obferves, are
oblong, pointed at both ends, entire, fmooth, of a lliining green on the upper-fide,
and of an olive on the back. Its flower is compofed of four petals, almoft round,
or a little pointed: their colour refembles that of a rofe, only deeper and lefs lively.
The calyx of this flower is of one piece, expanded, and cut into four lobes. The
two upper lobes are fbmething larger than the lower ones ;
they are greenifh on the
outfide, and of a fine deep red within : the red of the upper ones is more lively than
that of the lovi^r ones. This calyx inclofes all the parts of the flower ; it is fup-
ported by a pedicle, which is green, and conftantly comes out of the end of a twig
above the laR pair of leaves. The fruit is round, of the fize of a fmall orange, from
an inch and a half to two inches in diameter. The body of this fruit is a capfule of
one cavity, compofed of a thick rind a little like that of a pomegranate, but fofter;
thicker, and fuller of juice. Its thicknefs is comntonly a quarter of an inch.
Its outer colour is of a dark-brown purple, mixed with a little grey and dark-green.
The infide of the peel is of a rofe colour, and its juice is purple. Lafl; of all, this
fkin is of a ftyptic or aftringent tafte, like that of a pomegranate, nor does it flick to
the fruit it contains. The infide of this fruit is a furrowed globe, divided into feg-
ments, much like thofe of an orange, but unequal in fize, which do not adhere to
each other. The number of thefe fegments is always equal to that of the rays of
the top which covers the fruit. The fewer there are of thefe fegments, the bigger
they are. There are often in the fame fruit fegments as big again as any of thofe
that are on the fide of them. Thefe fegments are white, a little tranfparent, flefliy,
membranous, full ofjuice like cherries or rafpberries, of a tafle of flraw berries and
grapes together. Each of the fegments inclofes a feed of the figure and fize of an
almond flripped of its fliell, having a protuberance on on? of its fides. Thefe feeds
are covered with two fmall Ikins, the outermoft of which ferves for a bafis to the
filaments and membranes of which the pulp is compofed. The fubftance of thefe
feeds comes very near to that of chefnuts, as to their confiflency, colour, and aflrin-
gent quality.
“ This tree (according to our author) originally grows in the Molucca iflands,
where it is called mangoftan ; but has been tranfplanted from thence to the iflands
of
24 APPENDIX TO
of Java and Malacca, at which laft place it thrives very well. Its tuft is fo fine, fo
regular, fo equal, and the appearance of its leaves fo beautiful, that it is at prefent
looked upon at Batavia as the moft proper for adorning a garden, and affording an
agreeable fliade. There are few feeds, however, (he obferves,) to be met with in
this fruit that are good for planting, moft part of them being abortive.”—He con-
cludes his defcription by mentioning, that one may eat a great deal of this fruit
without any inconvenience ;
and that it is the only one which fick people may be
allowed to- eat without any fcruple.
Other writers concur in their praifes of this fruit. Rumphius obferves^ that the
mangoftan is univerfally acknowledged to be the beft and wholefomeft fruit that
grows in India;, that its flefli is juicy, white, almoft tranfparent, and of as delicate
and agreeable a flavour as the richeft grapes ;
the tafte and frnell being fo grateful,
that it is fcarcely poflible to be cloyed with eating it. —He adds, that, when fick peo-
ple have no reliih for any other food, they generally eat this with great delight; but,
iliould they refufe it, their recovery is no longer expefted. “ It is remarkable (fays
he) that the mangoftan is given with fafety in almoft every diforder. The dried bark
is ufed with fuccefs in the dyfentery and tenefmus ;
and an infufion of it is efteem-
ed a good gargle for a fore mouth or ulcers in the throat. The Chinefe dyers ufe
this bark for the ground or bafts of a black colour, in order to fix it the firmer.”
According to Captain Cook, in his Voyage round the World, vol. iii. p. 737,
the Garcinia mangoftana of Linnasus is peculiar to the Eaft-Indies. It is about
the fize of the crab-apple, and of a deep red-wine colour. On the top of it is the
figure of five or fix fmall triangles joined in a circle ;
and at the bottom Teveral hol-
low green leaves, which are remains of the bloffom. When they are to be eaten,
the fkin, or rather flefh, muft be taken off ; under whicfi are found fix or feven
white kernels, placed in a circular order; and the pulp with which thefe are in-
veloped is the fruity than which nothing can be more delicious. It is a happy
mixture of the tart and the fweet, which is no lefs wholefome than pleafant; and,
as well as the fweet orange, is allow’ed in any quantity to thofe who are afflidted.
with a fever either of the putrid or inflammatory kind.
MANCHINEEL-TREE. Hippomane..
THIS is a genus of the adelphia order, belonging to the moncecia clafs, of plants
;
and in the natural method ranking under the 38th order, tricoccoe. The male has
an amentum and bifid perianthium, without any corolla; the female perianthium is
trifid ; there is no corolla : the ftigma is tripartite; and the plum or capfule tricoccous.
.
Species. 1. The mancinella with oval fawed leaves is a native of all the Weft-In-
ilia iflands. It has a fmooth brownilh bark ; the trunk divides upwai:ds into ina-
2 iiy
73
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL. iS
ny branches, garniflied with oblong leaves about three inches long. The flowers
come out in ihort fpikes at the end of the branches, but make no great appear-
ance, and are fucoeeded by fruit of the fame lhape and fize with a golden pippin.
The tree grows to the fize of a large oak. S. The bigiandulofa, with oblong bay
leaves, is a native of South America; and grows to as large a fize as the firft, from
which it differs moftly in the lhape of its leaves. 3. The fpinofa, with holly-leaves,
is a native of Campeachy, and feldom rifes above twenty feet high ; the leaves
greatly referable thofe of the common holly, and are fet with lharp prickles at the
end of each indenture. They are of a lucid green, and continue all the year.
Culture. Thefe plants, being natives of very warm climates, cannot be preferved
in this country without a fiove; nor can they by any means be made to rife above
five or fix feet high even with that alfiftance. They are propagated by feeds ; but
mull: have very little moifture, or they will certainly be killed by it.
Properties. Thefe trees have a very poifonous quality, abounding with an acrid
milky juice of a highly cauftic nature. Sti’angers -are often tempted to eat the fruit
of the firft fpecies ;
the confequences of which are, an inflammation of the mouth
and throat, pains in the ftomach, &c. which are very dangerous, unlefs remedies
are fpeedily applied. The wood is much efteemed for making cabinets, book-
cafes, &c. being very durable, taking a fine polilh, and not being liable to become
W'orm-eaten : but, as the trees abound with a milky cauftic juice already mentioned,
fires are made round their trunks to burn out this juice; otherwife thofe who fell
the trees would be in danger of lofing their fight by the juice flying in their eyes.
This juice raifes blifters on the Ikin wherever it falls, turns linen black, and makes
it fall out in holes. It is alfo dangerous to work the wood after it is fawn out ; for,
if any pf the faw-duft happens to get into the eyes of the workmen, it caufes in-
flammations and the lofs of fight for fome time ; to prevent which, they generally
cover their faces with fine lawn during the time of working the wood. It is with
the juice of this tree that the Indians ufed to poifon their arrows.
MARSH-MALLdW^ of SURINAM. Althjea.
THIS plant is called at Surinam okkerum, and is an elegant fpecies of the
marfii-mallow, fo well known to botanifts. It grows about fix feet high, and
-bears double flowers, fome of which are yellow and white, and others red.—If
the fruit be cut, a milky liquor drops out, clammy and in the form of threads ;
which they boil and make a drink ofin America, being famous for internal bruifes,
and for moft difeafes of the ftomach and bowels.
Befidesthis, there are three other fpecies of the marfii-mallow, which I fiiall here
defcribe. 1. The officinalis, or common marfii-mallow, is a native of Britain, and
No. 27. G has
26 APPENDIX TO
has a perennial root, and an annual ftalk, which perifhes every autumn. The ftalks
grow ere^l to the height of four or five feet. Thefe are garniflied with leaves,
which are hoary, foft to the touch, and placed alternately on the branches. The
flowers come out from under the wings of the leaves, like the mallow, and are of a
purplifh white. 2. The hirfuta, or hairy marfli-mallow, is a native of Spain and
Portugal. It is a low plant, whofe branches trail on the ground, unlefs they are fup-
ported by flakes. The leaves and flalks are befet with flrong hairs ; the flowers
come out like thofe of the common fort, but are fmaller, and have purplifh bot-
toms. 3. The cannabina, or flirubby marfli-mallow, is a native of Hungary and
Iflria. It has a woody flem, which rifes to the height of four or five feet: and puts
out many fide-branches. The flowers come out in the fame manner as in the others,
but are of a deeper red colour. This fort feldom flowers the firfl year, unlefs the
fummer proves warm : but when the plants live through the winter, they will flower
early in the following fummer, and produce good feeds.
Culture. Though the officinalis is found naturally in fait marflies, it will thrive
when tranfplanted into any foil, or in any fituation ; however, it will always grow
larger in a moifl than in a dry foil. It may be propagated either by parting the
roots in autumn when the flalks decay, or by flowing the feeds in the fpring. If
the feeds of the fecond fpecies are flown in April, the plants will flower in July, and
carry ripe feed in September. They ought to be flown in the places where they are
to remain, as the roots flioot deep in the ground: fo that, unlefs the plants are re-
moved very young, they feldom furvive it. The feeds of the cannabina ought
alfo to be fown where the plants are to remain, for the reafon jufl now given. They
fhould have a fheltered fituation and a dry foil, otherwife they will not live through
the winter. Indeed they feldom continue in this country above two years, with
all the care that can be taken of them.
Medicinal Ufes. The officinalis is the only fpecies ufed in medicine. The
whole plant, efpecially the root, abounds with a mild mucilage. It has the general
virtues of an emollient medicine ;
and proves ferviceable in a thin acrimonious flate
of the juices, and where the natural mucus of the inteflines is abraded. It is
chiefly recommended in fharp defluxions upon the lungs, hoarfenefs, dyfenteries ;
and likewife in nephritic and calculous complaints ;
not, as fome have fuppofed,
that this medicine has any peculiar power of diffolving or expelling the calculus ;
but as, by lubricating and relaxing the veffels, it procures a more free and eafy paf-
fage. The root is fometimes employed externally for foftening and maturing hard
tumours ;
chew^ed, it is Caid to give eafe in difficult dentition of children.
This root gave name to an officinal fyrup, deco6lion, and ointment ,°^
and was like-
wife an ingredient in the compound powder of gum tragacanth and the od and
plafler of mucilages. But of all thefe formulre the fyrup alone is now retained. .
MAN-
w
Jilftfr . tir/in.
///y ///
i^Lj^
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL. '
27
MANDRAKE. Atropa.
THE fruit of this plant has been much recommended in cafes of barrennefs.
Its frelh root is a violent purge, the dofe being from ten grains to twenty in fub-
ftance, and from half a dram to a drani in infufion. It has been found to do
fervice in hyfteric complaints ; but mufl be ufed with great caution, otherwife it
will bring on convuHions, and many other mifchievous fymptoms. It has alfo a
narcotic quality. At prefent only the frelh leaves are fometimes ufed in anodyne
and emollient cataplafms and fomentations. It ufed to be an ingredient in one of
the old officinal unguents ; but both that and the plant itfelf are now reje6ted from
our pharmacopoeias. It ftill however retains a place in the foreign ones, and may
perhaps be confidered as deferving farther attention.
Naturalifts tell ftrange ftories of this plant i but, fetting afide its foporiferous vir-
tue, the modern botanifls will fcarcely warrant any of them, nor even that human
figure ordinarily afcribed to its roots, efpecially fince the difcovery of the artifice of
charlatans in fafhioning it, to furprife the credulity of the people. The figure given
in the annexed plate, fig. 1. however, was taken from a genuine root.
Mofes informs us (Gen. xxx. 14.) that Reuben, the fon of Leah, being in the
field, happened to find mandrakes, which he brought home to his mother. Rachael
had a mind to them, and obtained them from Leah, upon condition that ffie fhould
eonfent that Jacob ffiould be Leah’s bedfellow the night following. The term
dudaim, here made ufe of by Mofes, is one of thofe words of which the Jews at
this day do not underftand the true fignification. Some tranflate it violets, others
lilies, or jellamine. Junius calls it agreeable flowers; Codurquus makes it truffle,,
or mufliroom ;
and Calmet will have it to be the citron. Thofe that would fup-
port the tranflation of mandrakes plead, that Rachael being barren, and having
a great defire to conceive, coveted Leah’s mandrakes, it may be prefumed, with a
view to its prolific virtues. The ancients have given to mandrakes the name of
the apples of love, and to Venus the name of Mandragoritis ; and the Emperor
Julian, in his epiftle to Calixenes, fays, that he drinks the juice of mandrakes ta
excite amorous inclinations.
MIMOSA, OR SENSITIVE PLANT,
IS a genus of the polygamia order, belonging to the monoecia clafs, ofplants; and
in the natural method ranking under the thirty- third order, lomentacem. The her-
maphrodite cylyx is quinquedentate; the corolla quinquefid; there are five or more
ftamina, one piftil, and a legume: the male calyx is quinquedentate; the corolla
quinquefid; with five, ten, or more, ftamina. The name mimofa fignifies “ mimic;”
an ’
APPENDIX TO
and is given to this genus on account of the fenfibility of the leaves, which, by their
motion, mimic or imitate, as it were, the motion of animals. To this genus Lin-
nseus joins many of the acacias; and it comprifes near 60 different fpecies, all natives
of warm climates. Of the forts cultivated here in our ftoves, &c. fome are of the
thrub and tree kind, and two or three are herbaceous perennials and annuals. The
fenfitive kinds are exceedingly curious plants in the very lingular circumftance of
their leaves receding rapidly from the touch, and running up clofe together ;
and in
fome forts the footftalks and all are affedted, fo as inftantly to fall downward as if
faftened by hinges, which laft are called humblefenjitives. They have all winged
leaves, each wing confifting of many fmall pinhas. In the Syftema Vegetabilium,
this genus, including the Mimofas properly fo called, and the Acacias, is divided
into feveral fedtions, diftinguillied by the figure, fituation, and arrangement, of the
leaves ;
as, fimple, fimply-pinnated, bigeminous and tergeminous, conjugate and
pinnated, doubly pinnated. The following are the moft remarkable
Species,_ with their properties. 1. The JenJitiva, or common fenfitive humble
plant, rifes with an under-llirubby prickly ftem, branching fix or eight feet high,
armed with crooked fpines; conjugated pinnated leaves, with bijugated lobes or
wings, having the inner ones the leafl, each leaf on a long footflalk; and at the fides
and ends of the branches many purple flowers in roundifh heads; fucceeded by
broad flat jointed pods, in radiated cluflers.—This is fomewhat of the humble
fenfitive kind ;
the leaves, footftalks and all, receding from the touch, though not
with fuch facility as in fome of the following forts.
2. Thepudica, or bafhful humble plant, rifes with an under-flirubby declinated
prickly ftem, branching two or three feet around, armed with hairy fpines ;
pin-
nated digitated leaves, each leaf being of five or more long folioles, attached by
their bafe to a long footftalk, and fpread out above like the fingers of a hand; and
at the fides and ends of the branches roundifh heads of greenifh white flowers,
fucceeded by fmall jointed prickly pods.—This is truly of the humble fenfitive kind;
for by the leaft touch the leaves inftantly recede, contradl, clofe, and together with
the footftalk quickly decline downward, as if afhamed at the approach of the hand.
3. The pernambucana, or flothful mimofa, has under-fhrubby procumbent
unarmed ftems, branching two or three feet round; bipinnated leaves, of three or
four pair of fliort winged foliola ;
and at the axillas drooping fpikes of pentandrou*
flowers, the lower ones caftrated.—This fpecies recedes very flowly from the
touch, only contradling its pinnae a little when fmartly touched ;
hence the name
Jlothful mimofa.
4. The afperata, or Panama fenfitive-plant. Of this curious fpecies, which has
been well defcribed by Dr. Browne (but not figured), there is a good figure in/the
7 Reliquiae
CULPEPERS BRITISH HERBAL. 29
#
Reliqulas Houftonianae, publiilied by Sir Jofeph Banks. It grows in moift places, and
by the lides ot rivulets, in the pariflies of St. James and Hanover, Jamaica. It fel-
dom rifes above three feet in height ;
but its (lender branches extend confiderably
on the neighbouring bu(hes. It is armed with crooked (harp fpines fo thickly
fet on the trunk, branches, and leaves, that there is no touching it with fafety. But
the plant has a beautiful appearance ;
the flowers are yello-w and globular, growing
at tlie extremity of the branches. The pods are hairy, brown, and jointed; each
containing a fmall, flat, and brown, feed. The leaves are numerous, fmall, and
winged: next to thofe of the pudica, they are fhe moft irritable; contradliog with
the lead touch, and remaining fo for feveral minutes after. This fpecies would
forma good hedge or fence round a garden; and, by being trimmed now and men,
may be eafily kept from fpreading too mjuch.
5. The or pun6iated fenfitive mimofa, rifes with a (hrubby upright
taper fpotted unarmed ftem, branching ere611y tive or (ix feet high; biommated
leaves, of four or five pair of long winged folioles, having each about twenty pair
of pinme ;
and at the axillas and termination of the branches, oblong fpikes of,yel~
lowifli decandrous flowers, the inferior ones caftrated; fucceeded above by oblong
feed-pods. This fort, though naturally Ihrubby and perennial in its native foii yet
in this country fometimes decays in winter. It is only fenfitive in the foiiola,
but quick in the motion.
6. The viva, lively mimofa, or fmallefl: fenfitive weed, has many creeping roots,
and fpreads itfelf fo as to cover large fpots of ground. It rifes at moft to two iu-
cbes, has winged leaves, with numerous fmall pinnae. The flower is globular, of a
blueilh colour, and grows in clufters from the axillae : thefe are followed by little
(hort hairy pods, containing fmooth ftiining feeds. This is the moft fenfible of all
the mimofas, the pudica not excepted. By running a ftick over the plant, a perfon
may write his name,, and it will remain vifible for ten minutes.
7. The quadrivalvis, perennial or quadrivalve humble mimofa, has herbaceous
(lender quadrangular prickly ftems, branching and fpreading all around, armed
with recurved fpines ;
bipinnated leaves of two or three pair of winged lobes, hav-
ing each many pinnas; and at the axillas globular heads of purple flowers, fucceed-
ed by quadrivalvular pods. This is of the humble fenfitive kind, both leaves and
footftalks receding from the touch.
8. The plena, annual or doublet-flowered fenfitive mimofa, rifes with an herbace^
ous ere6t round unarmed ftem, clofely branching and fpreading every way, three
or four feet high ;
bipinnated leaves of four or five pair of winged lobes, of many
pairs of pinnae; and at the axillas and termination of the branches fpikes of yellow
No. 28. H pentandrous
I.
30 APPENDIX TO
pentandrous flowers, the lower ones double; fucceeded hy Ihort broad pods. This
annual is only fenfitive in the foliola, but extremely fenfible of the totich or air.
9. The cornigera, or horned Mexican mimofa, commonly called great horned
acacia, has a flirubby upright deformed flem, branching irregularly, armed with
very large horn-like white fpines, by pairs, connated at the bafe; bipinnated leaves
thinlv placed; and flowers growing in fpikes. This fpecies is efteemed a curiofity
for the oddity of its large fpines, refemWing the horns of animals, and which are
often varioufly wreathed, twifted, and contorted.
10. The farnejiana, or fragrant, Acacia, grows in woodlands and wafte lands in
moft parts of Jamaica; rifing to twenty-five or thirty feet, with fuitable thicknefs.
The bark of the trunk is brown and fcaly, the branches are alternate. It is adorned
with bipinnated leaves of a bright-green colour; and yellow globular flowers from
the axillffi, of a fragrant fmell. The pods are about three inches long, and half an
inch broad: they are of a light-brown colour, ftnooth, comprefled, and contain five
or fix fmooth flat feeds. Formerly the flowers of this tree were ufed as an ingredient
in the theriaca andromachi of the old difpenfatories. The tree is fometimes planted
for a hedge or fence round inclofures; and the timber, though fmall, is ufeful in
rural economy.
1 1 . The arborea, or wild tamarind-tree, is common in all the woodlands, and ef-
pecially near where fettlements have been made in Jamaica. It rifesto a confidera-
ble height, and is proportionally thick. The timber is excellent, and ferves many
purpofes in rural economy: it is of the colour of cedar, pretty hard, and takes a
good polifli. The leaves are numerous; the flowers globular and white. The
pods are about a foot in length, of a fine fcarlet colour ;
when they are ripe they
open and become twifted. The feeds then appear ; they are oblong, fmooth, of a
ftuning black, and quite foft. On the whole, from the leaves, flowers, and pods,
this tree exhibits a Angular and beautiful contraft. With us this plant is raifed in
hot-houfes; but it appears, that with a little pains it may be made to grow in the
open air. A good fizeable tree of this fort grew in the garden of the late Dr. William
Pitcairn, at Iflington.
12. The latifoUa, ftiag-bark, or white wild tamarind. This excellent timber-tree
is very common in Jamaica, and rifes to a moderate height and good thicknefs.
The trunk is rough and fcaly : the leaves are numerous, of a rhomboidal figure,
and yellowifli caft. The flower-fpikes are from the axillae ;
their colour is yellow.
The feed-velTels are flat, jointed, and twifted. The feeds are of the bignefs of a
vetch, white, and finely ftreaked with blue. Of this tree there is a variety which
fome botanifts call ferpentina. The chief difference is in the leaves, which are
fmaller, and of a ftiining dark green.
6 13. The
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL. 31
13. Xhe, leheek, or ebony-tree. This is a native of the Eaft-Indies, but raifed
from feeds in Jamaica and St. Vincent’s. It is figured, though not accurately, by
Pluckenet, tab. 331. fig. 1. To what height this tree grows, we cannot vet fay ;
but it mull be of a confiderable thicknefs, if it be the ebony we have in ufe here.
Time will foon determine this, as the few plants in the iflands are reared with great
care by Dr. Dancer, in Jamaica, and Mr. Alexander Anderfon in St. Vincent’s.
14, 15. The cinerea diwA pinnata, calhew-bu flies. Tliefe fpecies are common
about Kingflon and Spanifli-Town, Jamaica, and rife by flender trunks to about
twenty feet. See the Plate, fig. 2.
Dr. Roxburgh of Madras, amongft a number of ufeful difcoveries, has found the
lac-in fe6t on this fpecies of mimofa. We have feen the native gum-lac on one of the
fmall twigs, and a fpecimen of the plant in the colleiSion of a gentleman. The plant
is a variety of the cinerea, and appears rather to be the pinnata, Linn. It is to be
hoped, that in a fliort time the ufeful infect juft mentioned may be tranfported from
Afia to the Weft-Indies, where this gum, or rather wax, may be alfo produced.
16. The fcandens, or climbing mimofa; (Gigalobium fcandens, Browne’s Jam.
p. 362. Phafeolus maocimus perennis, Sloane’s Jam. 6S. Perim Kaku-valli, Rbeede’s
Mai. viii. t. 32, 3, 4.) This fpecies of mimofa is frequent in all the upland val-
leys and woodlands on the north fide of Jamaica. It climbs up the talleft trees,
and fpreads itfelf in every dire6lion by means of its cirrhi, or clafpers, fo as to form
a complete arbour, and to cover the fpace ofan Englifli acre from one root. This
circumftance has a bad effeH; on the trees or buflies fo fliaded. Light, air, and
rain, (fo necelTary for all plants,) being fliut out, the leaves drop off, the tree
gradually rots, and the limbs fall down by the weight of this parafite.
The roots of this plant run fuperficially under the ground or herbage. The
trunk is feldom thicker than a man’s thigh, and fends off many branches, with nu-
merous Ihining green leaves, each of which terminates in a tendril or clafper, that
ferves to faften it to trees or buflies. The flower-fpikes are from the axillae : they
are flender, and the florets on them fmall and numerous. The pod is perhaps the
largeft and longeft of any in the world ;
being foraetimes eight or nine feet in
length, five inches broad, jointed, and containing ten or fifteen feeds. Thefe feeds
are brown, fliining, flattened, and very hard, and called cacoons. They are the fame
mentioned in the Phil. Traiif. N" 222, p. 293, by Sir Hans Sloane, as being thrown
aftiore on the Hebrides and Orkneys. This happens in the following manner: The
feeds, or beans, fall into the rivers, and are conveyed to the fea; the trade- winds
carry them weftward till they fall into the gulf ftream, which forces them northward
along the coaft of America and Bahama-iflands ;
as the winds blow frequent and
ftrong from America, thefo feeds are driven to the eaftward, till at length they are
thrown
32 APPENDIX TO
thrown afhore, and left by the tide, as aforefaid. This bean, after being long
foaked in water, is boiled and eaten by fome negroes; but, in general, there feems
to be no other ufe made of it than as a fort of fnuff-box.
17. The catechu, according to Mr. Ker, grows only to twelve feet in height, and
to one foot in diameter; it is covered with a thick rough brown bark, and towards
the top divides into many clofe branches : the leaves are bipinnated, or doubly
winged, and arc placed alternately upon the younger branches: the partial pinnab
are nearly two inches long, and are commonly from fifteen to thirty pair, having
fmall glands iirferted between the pinnte: each wing is ufually furnifiied with about
forty pair of pinnulte or linear lobes, befet with fhort hairs : the fpines are Ihort,
recurved, and placed in pairs at the bafe of each leaf: the flowers are hermaphro-
dite and male, and ftand in clofe fpikes, which arife from the axillas of the leaves,
and are four or five inches long : the calyx is tubular', hairy, and divides at the limb
into five oval pointed fegments : the coi'olla is monopetalous, '^hitifli, and of the
fame form as the calyx, but twice its length : the filaments are numeroits, capillary,
double the length of the corolla, adhering at the bafe of the gerinen, and crowned
w’ith I'oundilh antheras : the germen is oval, and fupports a flender Ifyle, which
is of the length of the filaments, and terminated by a fimple ftigma:'the fruit, or
pod, is lance- fhaped, brown, fmooth, compr^ffed, with an undulated thin margin;
it contains fix or eight roundilli flattened feeds, which prrrduce a naufeous oriour
when chewed. From this tree, which grows plentifully on the mountainous parts
of Hindooftan, where it flow'ers in June, is produced the officinal drug long known
in Europe by the name of terra japonica.
1 8. The Nilotica, or true Egyptian acacia, rifes to a greater height than the pre-
cedingr the bark of the trunk is fmooth, and of a grey colour; that of the branches
has commonly a purplifli tinge: the leaves are bipinnated, and placed alternately;
the partial pinnae are oppofite, furnifiied with a fmall gland between the outermoft
pair, and befet with numerous pairs of narrow elliptical pinnulae, or leafits ; the
fpines are long, white, fpreading, and proceed from each fide of the bafe of the
leaves: the flowers are hermaphrodite and male; they alfume a globular fhape, and
ftand four or five together upon flender peduncles, which arife from the axiilas of
the leaves: the calyx is fmall, bell-fhaped, and divided at the mouth into five mi-
nute teeth: the corolla confifts of five narrow yellowifh fegments : the filaments
are numerous, capillary, and furnifhed w'ith roundifli yellow antberas; the germen
is conical, and fupports a flender ftyle, crowned with a fimple ftigma : the fruit
is a long pod, refembling that of the lupin, and contains many flattifh brown
feeds. It is a native of Arabia and Egypt, and flowers in July.
Although
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL. 33
Although the Mimofa Nilotica grows in great abundance over the vaft extent of
Africa, yet gum arabic is produced chiefly by thofe trees which are lituated near
the equatorial regions ;
and we are told that in Lower Egypt the folar heat is never
fufficiently intenfe for this purpofe. The gum exfudes in a liquid Rate from the
bark of the trunk and branches of the tree, in a fimilar manner to the gum which
is often produced upon the cherry-trees, &c. in this country; and by expofure to
the air it foon acquires folidity and hardnefs. In Senegal the gum begins to flow
when the tree firft opens its flowers; and continues during the rainy feafon till the
month of December, when it is colle6ted for the firft time. Another collection of
the gum is made in the month of March, from incifions in the bark, which the ex-
treme drynefs of the air at that time is faid to render neceflary. Gum arabic is now
ufually imported into England from Barbary; not packed up in fkins, which was
the practice in Egypt and Arabia, but in large calks, or hogftieads. The common
appearance of this gum is well known: and the various figures which it affumes
feem to depend upon a variety of accidental circumftances attending its tranfuda-
tion and concretion. Gum arabic of a pale yellowifli colour is moft efteemed ; on
the contrary, thofe pieces which are large, rough, of a roundifli figure, and of a
brownifli or reddilh hue, are found to be lefs pure, and are faid to be produced from
a different fpecies of mimofa, (M. Sefiegal;
)
but the Arabian and Egyptian gum is
commonly intermixed with pieces of this kind, fimilar to that which comes from the
coaft of Africa near the river Senegal.
Gum arabic does riot admit of folution by fpirit or oil ; but in twice its quantity of
water it diffolves into a mucilaginous fluid, of the confiftence of a thick fyrup ;
and
in this ftate anfwers many ufeful purpofes, by rendering oily, refinous, and pingui-
ous, fubftances, mifcible with water. The glutinous quality of gum arabic occa-
fions it to be preferred to moft other gums and mucilaginous fubftances, as a demul-
cent in coughs, hoarfeneffes, and other catarrhal afferilions, in order to obtund irri-
ting acrimonious humours, and to fupply the lofs of abraded mucus. It has been
very generally employed in cafes of ardor urinae and ftrangury; but it is the opi-
nion of Dr. Cullen, “ that even this mucilage, as an internal demulcent, can be of
no fervice beyond the alimentary canal.”
19. The Senegal is a native of Guinea, and was fome time ago introduced into Ja-
maica. Dr Wright tells its, he faw both this and the Nilotica, of the fize of a
cherry-tree, growing at Dr. Paterfon’s, in the parifti of Hanover, Jamaica. The
flowers are globular and fragrant. The pods are brown, and of the fize of a goofe-
quill. The tree, on being wounded, exfudes gum arabic, though in lefs quantity,
and lefs tranfparent, than that ofthe ftiops, which is obtained from the Nilotica above
defcribed. There are above fixty other fpecies.
No. 28. I On
34 APPENDIX TO
On the annexed Plate, at fig. 3. is delineated a non-defcript fpecies of an un-
common fize, mentioned by Mr. Paterfon in his Travels among the Hottentots, but
not particularly defcribed. Like feveral other Mimofas, it produces gum, which
is confidered by the natives as a peculiarly dhlicate fpecies of food : the leaves and
lower points of the branches feem to conftitute the principal aliment of the Came-
lopardalis; and, from the extent of its boughs, and the fmoothnefs of the trunk, it
affords a fufficient defence to a fpecies of gregarious bird againft the tribe of fer-
pents and other reptiles which would otherwife deftroy its eggs. Mr, Bruce de-
fcribes two plants which feem referable to this genus ;
the one named ergett ddimmo,
the other ergett el krone. The former, in our author’s opinion, fliould be named
Mimofa fanguinea; its name in the Abyffinian language fignifying “ the bloody
ergett,” and derived, as he fuppofes, from its being partly compofed of beautiful
pink filaments. When the blolfoms are fully fpread, the upper part of them coh-
fifts of yellow curled filaments, and the under part of pink filaments of a firnilar
fhape. In its unripe ftate, that part which afterwards becomes pink is of a green
colour, and compofed of tubercles of a larger fize, and more detached, than thofe
which afterwards produce the yellow filaments ;
the latter being fmaller, and clofer
fet together : the leaves are of the double-pinnated kind.
The name ofthe other fpecies, in the Abyffinian language, fignifies tliehomed ergett;
which our author fuppofes to be given it on account of the figure of the pods.
The flower very much refembles that of the Acacia vera in fize and fhape, excepting
that it is attached to the branch by' a ftrong woody ftalk of confiderable length,
which grows oat at the bottom of the branch bearing the leaves, and is fheltered as
in a cafe by the lower part of it. The branches are all covered with fhort, ftrong,
and fliarp-pointed, thorns, having their points inclined backwards towards the root.
The pods are covered with a prickly kind of hair, which eafily rubs off with the
fingers, flicks to them, and gives a very uneafy fenfation. They have thirteen divi-
fions ;
in each of which are three hard, round, and fhining, feeds, of a dufky brown
colour. Both of thefe fhrubs fhut their leaves on the coming on of the violent rains
in the wet feafon, and never fully expand them till the dry feafon returns.
MYRISTICA, OR NUTMEG-TREE.
i
THE Myriftica, or nutmeg-tree, is a genus of plants belonging to the clafs dioe-
cia, order triandria, and of the natural order of lauri. The male calyx is mono-
phyllous, ftrong, and parted into three lacinii of an oval fhape ;
in the middle of
the receptacle rifes a column of the height of the calyx, to the upper part of which the
2 antheree
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL. 3S
antherse are attached : they vary in number from three to twelve or thirteen. The
female calyx and corolla as in the male, on a diftin6t tree; the germen of an oval
fhape; the ftyle fliort, with a bifid ftigma, the lacinii of which are oval and fpread-
ing. The fruit is of that fort called ctrupa; it is fleihy, roundiih, fometimes uni-
locular, fometimes bivalved, and burfts when ripe at the fide. The feed is enveloped
with a flelhy and fatty membraneous fubftance, which divides into filaments
;
(this in one of the fpecies is the mace of the fhops.) The feed, or nntmeg, is round
or oval fiiaped, unilocular, and contains a fmall kernel, variegated on the furface
by the fibres running in the foVm of a fcrew.
Species. There are five fpecies of this genus according to fome authors ; but,
fome of thefe being only varieties, they may be reduced to three, viz.
1. Myriftica fatua, or wild nutmeg: this grows in Tobago, and rifes to the height
of an apple-tree; has oblong, lanceolated, downy, leaves, and hairy fruit the nut-
meg of which is aromatic, but when given inwardly is narcotic, and occafions
drunkennefs, delirium, and madnefs, for a time.
2. Myriftica febifera, (Virola feUfera, Aublet, page §04. tab. 345.) A tree
frequent in Guiana, rifing to forty or even to fixty feet high ;
on wounding the
trunk of which, a thick acrid red juice runs out. Aublet fays nothing of the nuU
megs being aromatic; he only obferves, that a yellow fat is obtained from them,
which ferves many oeconomical and medical purpofes, and that the natives make
candles of it.
3. The Myriftica mofchata, or nutmeg, attains the height of thirty feet, producing
numerous branches which rife together in ftories, and covered with bark which of
the trunk is a reddifh brown, but that of the young branches is of a bright green
colour: the leaves are nearly elliptical, pointed, undulated, obliquely nerved, on the
upper fide of a bright green, on the under whitifli, and ftand alternately upon foot-
ftalks: the flowers are fmall, and hang Upon flender peduncles, proceding from the
axillffi of the leaves : they are both male and female upon feparate trees. M.
Schwartz, who has carefully examined this as well as the two firft fpecies, preferved
in fpirits, places them amongft the monadelphia.
The nutmeg has been fuppofed to be the comacum of Theophraftus, but there
feems little foundation for this opinion ;
nor can it with more probability be thought
to be the chryfohalanus of Galen. Our firft knowledge of it was evidently derived
from the Arabians; by Avicenna it was cdWe^jiauJihan, ov jaufiband, which fignifies
nut of bands.” Rumphius both figured and defcribed this trfee ;
but the figure
given by him is fo imperfect, and the defcription fo confufed, that Linnasqs, who
gave it the generic name Myrijlica, was unable to affign its proper characters. Son-
nerat’s account of the mujcadier is ftill more erroneous ;
and the younger Linnaeus *
was
30 APPENDIX TO
was unfortunately milled by this author, placing the myriftica in the clafs polyan-
dria, and defcribing the corolla as confifting of five petals. Thunberg, who exa-
mined the flower of the nutmeg, places it in the clafs mqnoecia; and, according
to his description, the male flower has but one filament, furrounded at the upper
part by the antherae ;
and as the filaments are fhort and Hinder, and the antherae
united, this miftake might eafily arife. M. De La Marck informs us, that he re-
ceived feveral branches of the myriftica, both in flower and fruit, from the Ifle of
France, where a nutmeg-tree, which was introduced by Monfieur Poivre in 1770,
is now very large, and continually producing flowers and fruit. From thefe
branches, which were fent from Monf. Cere, dire6tor of the king’s garden in fhat
ifland, Monf. De La Marck has been enabled to defcribe and figure this and other
fpecies of the myriftica with tolerable accuracy; as will appear from the annexed
plate, of which the following is an explanation :
Fig. a. A fprig with fru6lification. The drupe of the natural fize, and burfting
open. Fig. h. The full grown fruit cut lengthways. Fig. c. Another fe^lion of
the fame. Fig. d. The nutmeg enveloped with its covering, the mace. Fig. e.
The fatty membrane, or mace, fpread out. Fig. f. The nutmeg of its natural fize.
Fig. g. The fame with its external tegument removed at one end. Fig. h. The
fame with its outer tegument entirely removed. Fig. i. A tranfverfe fe6tion of
the nutmeg.
The feed or kernels, called nutmegs, are well known, as they have been long ufed
both for culinary and medical purpofes. Diftilled with water, they yield a large
quantity of elfential oil, refembling in flavour the fpice itfelf; after the diftillation,
an infipid febaceous matter is found fwimming on the water ;
the deco6lion infpif-
fated, gives an extra6t of an un6luous, very lightly bitterifli, tafte, and with little or
no aftringency. Rectified fpirit extra6ls the whole virtue of nutmegs by infufion,
and elevates very little of it in diftillation ;
hence the fpirituous extra6l poflelfes
the flavour of the fpice in an eminent degree.
Nutmegs, when heated, yield to the prefs a confiderable quantity of limpid yel-
low oil, which on cooling concretes into a febaceous confiftence. In the fliops we
meet with three forts of un6tuous fubftances called oil of mace, though really expref.
fed from the nutmeg. The beft is brought from the Eaft-Indies in ftone jars ;
this
is of a thick confiftence, of the colour of mace, and has an agreeable fragrant fmell;
the fecond fort, which is paler coloured, and much inferior in quality, comes from
Holland in folid mafles, generally flat, and of a fquare figure : the third, which is
the worft of all, and ufually called common oil of mace, is an artificial compofition
of fevum, palm-oil, and the like, flavoured with a little genuine oil of nutmeg.
Method
37
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL.
Method of gathering and preparing Nutmeg, When the fruit is ripe, the natives
afcend the trees, and gather it by pulling the branches to them with long hooks.
Some are employed in opening them immediately, and in taking off the green fhell or
firft rind, w'hich is laid together in a heap in the woods, where in time it putrefies,
Asfoon as the putrefadlion has taken place, there fprings up a kind of muflirooms,
called boleti mofchatyni, of a blackilli colour, and much valued by the natives, who
confider them as delicate eating. When the nuts are ftripped of their firft rind,
they are carried home, and the mace is carefully taken off with a fmall knife. The
mace, which is of a beautiful red, but afterwards affumes a darkifti 6r reddifli co-
lour, is laid to dry in the fun for the fpace of a day, and then removed to a place lefs
expofed to his rays, where it remains for eight days, that it may foften a little. They
afterwards moiften it with fea-water, to prevent it from drying too much, or from
lofing its oil. They are careful, however, not to employ too much water, left it
fhould become putrid, and be devoured by w'orms. It is laft of all put into fmall
bags, and fqueezed very clofe.
The nuts, which are ftill covered with their ligneous fliell, are for three days ex-
pofed to the fun, and afterwards dried before a fire till they emit a found when they
are ftiaken ;
they then beat them with fmall fticks in order to remove their ftiell,
which flies off in pieces. Thefe nuts are diftributed into three parcels : the firft of
which contains the largeft and moft beautiful, which are deftined to be brought to
Europe ;
the fecond contains fuch as are referved for the ufe of the inhabitants ;
and the third contains the fmalleft, which are irregular or unripe. Thefe are burnt,
and part of the reft is employed for procuring oil by preffure. A pound of them
commonly gives three ounces of oil, which has the confiftence of tallow, and has
entirely the tafte of nutmeg. Both the nut and mace, when diftilled, afford an ef-
fential, tranfparent, and volatile, oil, of an excellent flavour. The nutmegs which
have been thus feledled would foon corrupt if they were not watered, or rather pick-
led with lime-water made from calcined fliell-filh which they dilute with falt-water
till it attain the confiftence of fluid pap. Into this mixture they plunge the nut-
megs, contained in fmall balkets, two or three times, till they are completely cover-
ed over with the liquor. They are afterwards laid in a heap, where they heat, and>
lofe their fuperfluous moifture by evaporation. When they have fweated fufficiently,
they are then properly prepared, and fit for a fea-voyage.
In the Ifland of Banda, the fruit of the nutmeg-tree is preferved entire in the fol-
lowing manner: When it is almoft ripe, but previous to its opening, it is
in water and pierced with a needle. They next lay it in water to foak for ten day^
till it has loft its four and fliarp tafte. They then boil it gently in a fyrup of fugar,
to which, if they wiffi it to be hard, a little lime is added. This operation is repeat-
No. 28. , K ed
38 APPENDIX TO
ed for eight days, and each time the fyrup is renewed. The fruit when thus pre-
ferved is put for the lall time into a pretty thick fyrup, and is kept in earthern pots
ciofely lliut. Thefe nuts are iikewife pickled with brine or with vinegar; and, when
they intend to eat them, they firfl fteep them in frelh water, and afterwards boil
them in fyrup of fugar, &c.
Ufea. Nutmegs preferved entire are prefented as deferts, and the inhabitants of
India fometimes eat them w'hen they drink tea. Some of them ufe nothing but the
pulp; others Iikewife chew the mace; but they generally throw away the kernel,
which is really the nutmeg. Many, who perform fea-voyages to the north, chew
this frait every morning. The medicinal qualities of nutmeg are fuppofed to be
aromatic, anodyne, ftomachic, and reftringent; and, with a view to the lafl-mention-
ed effedls, it has been much ufed in diarrhoeas and dyfenteries. To many people
the aromatic flavour of nutmeg is very agreeable ;
they however fliould be cautious
not to ufe it in large 'quantities, as it is apt to affedt the head, and. even to manifeft
an hypnotic power in fuch a degree as to prove extremely dangeraus. Bontius
fpeaksof this as a frequent occurrence in India; and Dr. Cullen relates a remarka-
ble inftance of this foporific effe(51; of the nutmeg, which fell under his own obferva-
tion, and hence concludes, that in apopledlic and paralytic cafes this fpice may be
v^ry improper. He obferves, that a perfon by miftake took two drams or a little
more of pow^dered nutmeg: he felt it warm in his ftomach, without any uneafinefs;
but in about an hour after he had taken it he was feized with a drowfmefs, which
gradually increafed to a complete llupor and infenfibility ;
and not long after he
was found fallen from his chair, lying on the floor of his chamber in the ftate
mentioned. Being put to bed, he fell afleep; but, awaking a little from time to time,
he was quite delirious; and he thus continued alternately fleeping and delirious for
feveral hours. By degrees, however, both thefe fymptoms diminiflied; fo that in
about fix hours from the time of taking the nutmeg he was pretty well recovered
from both. Although he ftill complained of head-ach, and fome drowfinefs, he
flept naturally and quietly the following night, and next day was quite in his ordi-
nary health. The officinal preparations of nutmeg are a fpirit and efiential oil, and
the nutmeg in fubftance roafled, to render it more aftringent. Both the fpice itfelf
and its elfential oil enter feveral compofitions, as the confeftio aromatica, fpiritus
amonice com. &c. Mace poffefies qualities fimilar to thofe of the nutmeg, but is
iefs aftringent, and its oil is fuppofed to be more volatile and acrid.
Remarks on the Trade of Nutmegs. Nutmeg-trees grow in feveral iflands in the
Eaftern Oceap. The wood-pigeon of the Moluccas is unintentionally a great
planter of thefe trees, and difieminates them in places where a nation, powerful by
Its comtiierce, thinks it for its intereft that they lliould be rooted out and deftroyed.
6 The
39
CULPEPEPCs BRITISH HERBAL.
The Dutch, whole unwearied patience can furmount the greateft obftacles, long ap-
propriated to themfelves the crop of nutmegs, as well as that of cloves and cinna-
mon, growing'in the iflands of Ternate, Ceylon, &c. either by right of conqueft or
by paying fubfidies to the iflanders, who find thefe much more profitable than the
former produce of their trees. It is neverthelefs true, that they prevailed upon
or compelled the inhabitants of the Moluccas to cut down and root out all the
clove-trees, which they preferve only in the iflands of Amboyna and Ternate,
which are in a great meafure fubjedt to them. We know for certain, that the Dutch
paid 18,000 rix-dollars yearly to the King of Ternate, by w'ay of tribute or gift, in
order to recompenfe him for the lofs of his clove-trees in the other Molucca iflands;
and that they were moreover bound by treaty to take, at three-pence three-farthings
a pound, all the cloves brought by the natives of Amboyna to their magazines. They
likewife fucceeded in deftroying the cinnamon every where except in the ifland of
Ceylon. The fame was the cafe with white pepper, See. fo that the trade of the
whole of Europe, and of great part of Afia, in this fpecies of commodity, long
paffed through their hands.
The Dutbh had immenfe and very rich niagazines of thefe precious aromatics,
both in India and Europe. They had adtually by them the produce of fixteen
years, and never fupplied their neighbours with the laft, but always with the.oldefl
crop: in 1760 they fold what was laid up in 1744. It is commonly faid, that, wLen
the Dutch have too great a quantity.of cloves, nutmegs, &c. in their magazines, they
throw them into the fea ;
but the fad is, that they get rid of their fuperfluous aro-
matics by burning them. On the 10th of June, 1760, M. Bomare faw' at Amfler-
dam, near the admiralty, a fire, the fuel of which was valued at 8,000,000 of livres;
and as much w'as to be burned the day following. The feet of the fpedators svere
bathed in the elfential oil of thefe fubftances ;
but no perfon was allow'ed to gather
any of it, much lefs to take any of the fpices which were in the fire. Some years be-
fore, upon a fimilar occafion, and at the fame place, a poor man who had taken up
fome nutmegs which had rolled out of the fire, was, as M. Bomare was informed,
feized and condemned to immediate execution. We will only add, that notwith-
Randing the jealoufy of the Dutch, and the pains they take to preferve the fale of
cloves wholly to themfelves, they have never been able to prevent their own officers
in feveral parts of India from embezzling and felling confidefable quantities of them.
M. de Jaucourt informs us, that, in order to defraud the company, they fell
them to the veffels of other nations which they meet at fea, and moiften the remain-
der with water, that they may ftill have the number of quintals of which their cargo
confifted. The quantity fold may amount to ten quintals in one hundred before it
can be perceived by the clerks of the magazines at Batavia, where they are received.
We
40 APPENDIX TO
We are informed by M. Rom6 de Lifle, that the Englilli draw a great deal of
cinnamon, pepper, and cloves, from the iflands of Sumatra. The ftaple for this
commodity is at the fa6tory of Bencoolen. We have likewife feen a fpecirnen of
pretty good cinnamon raifed at Martinico. The French, to prevent the exporta-
tion of fpecie for thefe aromatic and exotic productions, have attempted to intro-
duce the culture of them into fome of their colonies. A great many plants of the
clove and nutmeg-tree have been procured, and planted in the Ifle of France, the
Ifland of Bourbon, and alfo at Cayenne, where they have a very promifing
appearance.
FLOWERING PAVONIS. C^salpinia.
THIS plant grows nine feet in height, and bears moft beautiful yellow flowers.
The feed Iteeped in water, and a ftrong decoCtion of it given to a woman in labour,
greatly facilitates the delivery. For this reafon, thofe Indian flaves who have con-
fidered thernfelves cruelly ufed by their talk-mafters in the plantations, take great
pains to get at this tree, for the purpofe of procuring abortion, which they know it
never fails to effeCl. Thofe negroes who are brought from Guinea and Angola
were the firft who were difcovered making ufe of this plant; and while they ate of
it, or drank a docoClion of its leaves or feeds, they neither conceived nor brought
forth children. On being remonftrated with, they faid they would fooner die than
bring forth children in flavery, who, as they grew up, muft undergo the fame yoke,
and fuffer all the cruelties infliCled on their unfortunate parents. Tournefort calls
this tree Poinciana Jlore pulcherritno. It grows in all the warm climates, and is
found in many parts of America. .
PIMENTO, OR JAMAICA PEPPER TREE. Myrtos.
THE Jamaica pepper-tree is a fpeciesof the myrtle, a genus of the monogynia
order, belonging to the icofandria clafs, of plants ;
and in the natural method
ranking under the 19th order, hefperide®. The calyx is quinquefid, fuperior;
there are five petals; the berry is difpermous or trifpermous. There are twenty-
eight fpecies, of which the moft remarkable are,
1. The communis, or common myrtle-tree, rifeth with a Ihrubby, upright, firm,
ftem, branching numeroufly all around into a clofe full head, rifing eight or ten feet
high, very clofely garniflied with oval-lanceolate, entire, moftly oppofite, leaves,
from half an inch to an inch and a half long, and one broad, on Ihort foot-ftalks ;
and numerous, fmall, pale, flowers from the axillas, fingly on each foot-ftalk, having
diphyllous involucrums; each flower fucceeded by a fmall, oval, dark-purple, berry.
The
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL. 4i
The moR material varieties are t —Broad-leaved Roman myrtle, trith Oral, Ihimng,
green, leaves, an inch and a half long, and one broad ;
and which is remarkably
floriferous. Gold ftriped broad-leaved Roman myrtle. Broad-leaved Dutch myr-
tle, with fpear-fhaped, fharp- pointed, dark-green, leaves, an inch long, and about
three quarters of one broad. Double-flowered Dutch myrtle. Broad-leaved Jews
myrtle, having the leaves placed by threes at each joint; by which particular cir-
cumftance this fpecies is in univerfal eftimation among the Jews in their religious
ceremonies, particularly in decorating their tabernacles ;
and for which purpofe
many gardeners about London cultivate it with particular care, to fell to the above
people, who are often obliged to purchafe it at the rate of fixpence or a Ihilling for
a fmall branch : for the true fort, having the leaves exadly by threes, is very fcarce,
and is a curiofity ; but by care in its propagation, taking only the perfedlly ternate^
leaved flioots for cuttings, it may be increafed fall enough ;
and is worth the atten-
tion of the curious, and particularly thofe who raife myrtles for the London mar-
kets. Orange-leaved Spanifh myrtle, with oval fpear-fhaped leaves, an inch and a
half long Or more, and one broad, in clufters round the branches, and referable the
fhape and colour of orange-tree leaves. Gold-ftriped leaved orange myrtle. Com-
mon upright Italian myrtle, with its branches and leaves growing more ere6t ;
the
leaves oval, lanceolate-lhaped, acute-pointed, and near an inch long, and half a one
broad. Silver-ftriped upright Italian myrtle. White-berried upright Italian myr-
tle. Portugal acute-leaved myrtle, with fpear-fliaped, oval, acute-pointed, leaves,
about an inch long. Box-leaved myrtle, with weak branches, fmall, oval, obtufe,
lucid-green, clofely-placed, leaves. Striped box-leaved myrtle. Rofemary-leaved
myrtle, hath eredl branches, fmall, narrow, lanceolate, acute-pointed, fhining,
green, very fragrant, leaves. Silver-ftriped rofemary-leaved myrtle. Thyme-leaved
myrtle, with very fmall clofely-pfaced leaves. Nutmeg-myrtle, with ere6t
branches and leaves; the leaves oval, acute-pointed, and finely fcented like a nut-
raesr. Broad-leaved nutmeg-myrtle. Silver-ftriped leaved ditto. Criftated or
cock’srcomb myrtle, frequently called bird’s-neft myrtle, hath narrow fliarp-pointed
leaves, criftated at intervals. Thefe are all beautiful ever-green fhrubs of ex-
ceeding fragrance ;
exotics originally of the fouthern parts of Europe, and of Afia
and Africa, and confequently in this country require the Ihelter of a green-houfe in
winter: all of which, though rather of the fmall-leaved kind, have their foliage
clofely placed, remain all the year, and are very floriferous in fummer; and, when
there is a colle6tion of the different forts, they afford an agreeable fource of variety
with each other. They therefore claim univerfal efteem as principal green-houfe
plants, efpecially as they are all fo eafily raift&d from cuttings, and of fuch eafy cul-
ture, as to be attainable in every garden where there is any fort of green-houfe, or
No. 28. L garden-
42 APPENDIX TO
garden-frames furnifhed with glaffes for protecting them in winter from froft;
but fome of the broad-leaved forts are fo hardy as to fucceed in the full ground,
againft a fouth wall and other warm expofures, all the year, by only allowing them
flielter of mats occafionally in fevere frofty weather; fo that a few of 'thefe forts
may.alfo be exhibited in a warm fituation in the dirubbcry : obfcrving, however, that
all the forts are principally to be confidered as grecn-houfe plants, and a due portion
of them muft always remain in pots to move to that department in winter.
2. The Myrtus pimenta, Jamaica pepper, or all-fpice tree, grows above thirty feet
in height, and two in circumference; the branches near the top are much divided
and thickly befet with leaves, which by their continual verdure always give the tree
a beautiful appearance; the bark is very fmooth externally, and of a grey colour; the
leaves vary in fliape and in fize, but are commonly about four inches long, veined,
pointed, elliptical, of a deepiliining-green colour; theflowers are produced in bunches
or panicles, and ftand upon fubdividing or trichotomous ftalks, which ufually ter-
minate the branches ;
the calyx is cut into four roundifh feguients ;
the petals are alfo
four, white, fraall, reflex, 6val, and placed oppofite to each other between the feg-
ments of the calyx; the filaments are nhmerous, longer than the petals, fpreading, of
a greenifli-white colour, and rife from the calyx and upper part of the germen; the
antherae are roundifli, and of a pale-yellow colour; the flyle is fmooth, Ample, and
eredt; the ftigma is obtufe; the^germen becomes a round fucculent berry, contain-
ing two kidney-fhaped flattifli f^eds. This tree (a branch of which is fliown on the
Plate at fig. 1.) is a native of New Spain and the WeftJndia iflands. In Jamaica it
grows very plentifully; and in June, July, and Augufl, puts forth its flowers, which,
with every part of the tree, breathe an aromatic fragrance. The berries when ripe
are of a dark-purple colour, and full of a fweet pulp, which the birds devour gree-
dily, and, muting the feeds, afterwards propagate thefe trees in all parts of the woods.
It is thought that the feeds, pafling through them in this manner, undergo fome
fermentation, which fits them better for vegetating than thofe gathered immediately
from the tree.
The pimento is a mofi: beautiful odoriferous ever-green, and exhibits a fine varie-
ty in the flove at all feafons. It was firft introduced and cultivated in this country
by Mr. Philip Miller in 1739. With refpedl to flowering, all the varieties of the-
Myrtus communis hower here in July and Auguft, moft of which are very floriferous:
the broad-leaved Roman kind in particular is often covered with flowers, which in
fome of the forts are fucceeded here by berries ripening in winter. The pimento alfo
flowers in the ftove with great beauty -and luxuriance. The flowgrs of moft of
the forts are fmall, but numerous; and are all formed each of five oval petals and
many ftamina. As all thefe plants require protedtion in this country, they muft be
6 - kept
CULPEPEK’s BRITISH HERBAL. 43
kept always in pots, for moving to the proper places of Ihelter according to their na-
ture; the Myrtus communis and varieties to the green-houfe in winter; the pimento
and other delicate kinds to the Rove, to remain all the year. Therefore let all the
forts be potted in rich light earth; and, as they advance in growth, fliiftthem into
larger pots, managing the myrtles as other green-houfe flirubs, and the Rove- kind
as other woody exotics of the Rove.
Properties, ^’c. The leaves and flowers of common upright myrtle have an af-
tringent quality, and are ufed for cleanfing the flvin, fixing the teeth when loofened
by the fcurvy, and Rrengthening the fibres. From the flowers and young tops is
drawn a diftilled water that is deterfive, aRr^ngent, cofmetic, and ufed in gargles.
.A decodlion of the flowers and leaves is applied in fomentations. The berries have
a binding deterfive quality; and the chemical oil obtained from them is excellent
for the hair, and ufed in pomatums and moR other external beautifiers of the face
and Rdn. As an internal medicine, thefe berries have little or no merit.
In the DiBio)maire portatif cfHi/loire JVaturelle, a fa6l is related, wdiich, if true,
tends to fiiow the Rrongly -aRringent quality of myrtle. “ Myrtle is likewife
the bafe of a pomatum called pommade cle la comtejfe, and well known on ac-
count of an extraordinary hiRorical faft. One of thofe gay youths who flutter about
the toilets of the fair happened one day to be left alone in the Rorehoufe of the
graces. With eager curiofity he examined the perfumes, the fmelling-bottles, the
perfumed powder, the effences, and the cofmetics. To give more of the vermillion
and greater pliancy to his lips, and to remove fome difagreeable eruptions, he lightly
fpreads with his indifcreet finger the fatal pommade, looks at himfelf in the glafs^
and contemplates his beauty with admiration. The lady enters; he wlflies to fpeak,
but his lips contracted, and he could only Ramnher. The lady looked at him with
aRonifliment ;
at length cafting her eyes on the toilet, flie difcovered by the open
pot the caufe of the miftake, and enjoyed a hearty laugb at the expenfe of her ad-
mirer, vvhofe confufion announced his indifcretion.”
Pimento-berries are chiefly imported into Britain from Jamaica; whence the name
Jamaica pepper. It is alfo called all-fpice, from its taRe and flavour being fuppofed
to refemble thofe of many different fpices mixed together. It is one of the Raple ar-
ticles of Jamaica, where the pimento-walks are upon a large fcale, fome of them
covering feveral acres of ground. When the berries arrive at their full growth, but
before they begin to ripen, they are picked from the branches, and expofed to the-
fun for feveral days, till they are fuflicien|iy'dried; 'thisiop.era is to be conducted^
with great cari^. obferving that on the'-fffR and, fecond day’s expofure they require
to be turned very often, and always to ’l^preferved from rain and the evening dews.
After this procefs is completed, which is known by the colour and rattling of the
feeds in the berries, they are put up in bags or hogfheads for the market. This fpice,
whidi.
44 APPENDIX TO
which »<?i8 lat firft hroijght over for dietetic ufes, has been long employed in the
(hops as a fuccedaneum to the more coftly oriental aromatics: it is moderately
warm, of an agreeable flavour, fomewhat refembling that of a mixture of cloves,
cinnamon, and nutmegs. Diftilled with water it yields an elegant effential oil, fo
ponderous as to fink in the water, in tafte moderately pungent, in fmell and flavour
approaching to oil of cloves, of rather a mixture of cloves and nutmegs. To re^i-
fied fpirit it imparts by maceration or digeflion the whole of its virtue : in diftilla-
tion it gives over very little to this menftruum, nearly all its aftive matter remaining
concentrated in the infpiffated extra6l. Pimento can fcarcely be confidered as a
medicine; it is, however, an agreeable aromatic, and on this account is not unfre-
quently employed with different drugs, requiring fuch a grateful adjun61:. Both
the Pharmacopoeias direct an aqueous and fpirituous diftillation to be made from
thefe berries, and the Edinburgh College orders alfo the oleiim ejfentiale piperis
Jamaicenjis.
PLANTAIN-TREE. Musa.
THE plantain-tree is a genus of the monogynia order, belonging to the
hexandria clafs, of plants ;
and in the natural method ranking under the eightli
order, fcitamineae. The calyx of the male hermaphrodite is a fpatha, or flieath ;
the corolla is dipetalous ; the one petal erect and quinquedentate ;
the other nec-
tariferous, concave, and fhorter; there are fix filaments; five of which are per*
fe6t; one ftyle; the germen inferior and abortive. The female hermaphrodite
has the calyx, corolla, filaments, and piftil, of the male hermaphrodite, with only
one filament perfe6t; the berry is oblong, and three-angled below. The moft
remarkable fpeqies are, the Mvfaparadifaica, or Jamaica plantain; and the Mufa
Japkntum, or banana-tree. See the Plate, fig. 2, 3.
The firft fort is cultivated in aU the iflands of the Weft-Indies, where the fruit
ferves the Indians for bread ; and feme of the white people alfo prefer it to moft
other things, efipecially to the yams and caffada-bread. The plant rifes with a foft
ftalk fifteen or twenty feet high ; the lower part of the ftalk is often as large as a
man’s thigh, diminifliing gradually to the top, where the leaves come out on every
fide ;
thefe are often eight feet long, and from two to three feet broad, with a ftrong
flefliy mid-rib, and a great number of tranfverfe veins running from the mid-rib to
the borders. The leaves are thin and tender, fo that, where they are expofed-to the
open air, they are generally torn by the wind ; for, as they are large, the wind has
great power againft them ;
thefe leaves come out from the centre of the ftalk, and
ace rolled up at their firft appearance; but, when they are advanced above the ftalks,
they expand and turn backward. As thefe leaves come up rolled in the manner
before^naentioned, their advance upward is fo quick, that their growth may ahneft
be
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL. 45
be difcerned by the naked eye; and, if a fine line be drawn acrofs, level with the top
of the leaf, in an hour’s time the leaf will be near an inch above it. When the
plant is grown to its full height, the fpikes of flowers will appear in the centre,
which is often near four feet in length, and nods on one fide. The flowers come
out in bunches ;
thofe in the lower part of the fpike being the largeft ;
the others
diminifh in their fize upward. Each of the bunches is covered with a fpathe or
fheath of a fine purple colour, which drops off when the flowers open. The upper
part of the fpike is made up of male or barren flowers, which are not fucceeded by
fruit, but fall off with their covers. The fruit, or plantain, is about a foot long,
and an inch and a half or two inches diameter : it is at firft green, but when ripe of
a pale-yellow colour. The fldn is tough; and within is a foft pulp of a»lufcious
fweet flavour. The fpikes of the fruit are often fo large as to weigh upwards of
forty pounds. The fruit of this fort is generally cut before it is ripe. The green
fkin is pulled off, and the heart is roafted in a clear fire for a few minutes, and fre-
quently turned ; it is then fcraped, and lerved up as bread. Boiled plantains are
hot fo palatable. This tree is cultivated on a very extenfive fcale in Jamaica;
without the fruit of which. Dr. Wright fays, the ifland would fcarcely be habitable,
as no fpecies of provifion could fupply its place. Even flour or bread itfelf
would be Idfs agreeable, and lefs able to fupport the laborious negro, fo as to ena-
ble him to do his bufinefs or to keep in health. Plantains alfo fatten horfes, cattle,
fwine, dogs, fowls, and other domeftic animals. The leaves, being fmooth and foft,
are employed as dreffings after blifters. The water from the foft trunk is aftrin-
gent, and employed by fome to check diarrhoeas. Every other part of the tree is
ufeful in different parts of rural (economy. The leaves are ufed for napkins and
table-cloths, and are food for hogs.
The fecond fort differs from the firll, in having its ffalks marked with dark pur-
ple ftripes and fpots. The fruit is fhorter, flraighter, and rounder : the pulp is fofter,
and of a more lufcious tafte. It is never eaten green; but, when ripe, it is very
agreeable, either eaten raw or fried in flices as fritters ; and is reliflied by all ranks
of people in the Weft-Indies. Both the above plants were carried to the Weft-
Indies from the Canary Iflands ;
whither, it is believed, they had been brought
from Guinea, where they grow naturally. They are alfo cultivated in Egypt, and
in moft other hot countries, where they grow to pei*fe<5tion in about ten months,
from their firft planting to the ripening of their fruit. When their ftalks are cut
down, feveral ftjckers come up from the root, which in fix or eight months will
produce fruit ;
forthat, by cutting dow-n the ftalks at different times, there is acon-
ftant fucceflion of fruit all the year.
No. 29. M In
46 APPENDIX TO
In Europe fome of thefe plants are preferved in the gardens of curious perfons
who have hot-houfes capacious enough for their reception, in many of which they
have ripened their fruit very well ;
but, as they grow very tall, and their leaves are
large, they require more room in the ftove than moft people care to allow them. They
are propagated by fuckers, which come from the roots of thofe plants which have
fruited ;
and many times the younger plants, when they are ftinted in growth, will
alfo put out fuckers.
The fruit of the banana-tree is four or five inches long, of the fize and fiiape of a
middling cucumber, and of a high grateful flavour : the leaves are two yards long,
and a foot broad in the middle; they join to the top of the body of the tree, and
frequently contain in their cavities a great quantity of water, which runs out, upon
a fmall incifion being made into the tree, at the jumSlion of the leaves. Bananas
grow in great bunches, that weigh a dozen pounds and upwards. The body of the
tree is fo porous as not to merit the name of wood ;
the tree is only perennial by
its roots, and dies down to the ground every autumn.
When the natives of the Weft-Indies (fays Labat) undertake a voyage, they
make provifion of a pafte of banana; which, in cafe of need, ferves them for
nourifliment and drink: for this purpofe they take ripe bananas; and, having
fqueezed them through a fine fieve, form the folid fruit into final) loaves, which-
are dried in the fun or in hot afhes, after being previoufly wrapped up in the
leaves of the Indian flowering-reed. When they would make ufe of this pafte,
they diftblve it in rvater, which is very eafily done; and the liquor, thereby ren-
dered thick, has an agreeable acid tafte imparted to it, which makes it both re-
frefliing and nourifliing. The banana is greatly efteemed, and even venerated, byr
the natives of Madeira, who term it the forbidden fruit, and reckon it a crime al-
moft inexpiable to cut it with a knife ;
becaufe, after diffedlion, it exhibits, as they
pretend, a fimilitude of our Saviour’s crucifixion; and to cut the fruit open with
a knife, is, in their apprehenfion, to wound his facred image.
Some authors have imagined, that the banana-tree was that of the leaves of which
our firft parents made themfelves aprons in Paradife. The facred text, indeed, calls
the leaves employed for that purpofe fig-leaves ; and Milton, in a moft beautiful
but erroneous defer! ption, affirms the bearded or Bengal fig to have been the tree
alluded to. But, befides that the fruit of the banana is often by the moft ancient au-
thors called a fig, its leaves, by reafon of their great fize and folidity, were much
more proper for a veil or covering than thofe of the Bengal fig, which are feldom
above fix or eight inches long and three broad. On the other hand, the banana-
leaves, being four or five feet long, and proportionally broad, were very likely
to be pitched upon in preference to all others; efpecially as they might be ea-
7 ffly
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL. 47
fily joined, or fevved together, with the jnumerous thread-like filaments that may^
with the utmoft facility, be peeled from the body of this tree.
Some have fuppofed the Abyffinian \>\dini enfete to be a fpecies of Mufa. It is faid
to be a native of the province of Narea, where it grows in the great marfixes and
fwamps for which that province is remarkable, owing to the many rivers which,
originate in that country, and have but a fmall declivity to the ocean. This plant,
as well as the coffee-tree, is faid to have been unknown in Abyffinia before the arri-
val of the Galla, w ho imported them both along wdth them.^. It comes to great
perfe6lion about Gondar;, but the principal plantations of it are in that part of
Maitlba and Gouth, to the well of the Nile, where it is almoft the foie food of the
Galla who inhabit that country. Maitfha is almoft entirely on a dead level; fo that
the rains ftagnate, and prevent the lowing of grain. Were it not for the enfete,
therefore, the Galla would have fcarcely any vegetable food., Mr. Bruce thinks that,
the enfete may have been cultivated in fome of the gardens of Egypt about Rofetta,
but that it was not a native of the country. He ftrongly controverts the opinion,
that this plant is a fpecies of Mufa, “ It is true (fays he), the leaf of the banana re-
fembles that of the enfete*. it bears figs, and has an excrefcence from its trunk,
which is terminated by a conical figure, chiefly differing from the enfete in fize and
quantity of parts but the figs of the banana are of the fize and figure of a cucumber,
and this is the part which is eaten. This fig is fweet, though mealy, and of a tafte
higlily agreeable. It is fuppofed to have no feeds, though in fa6t, there are four
fmall black feeds belonging to every fig. But the figs of the enfete are not eatable
:
they are of a foft tender fubftance, watery ;
taftelefs, and in colour and confiftence
refembling a rotten apricot: they are of a conical form, crooked a little at the lower
end; about an inch and a. half in length,, and. an inch in breadth where thickeft.
In the infide of thefe is a large ftone half an inch long, of the ftiape of a bean or ca-
Ihew-nut, of a dark-brown colour; and this contains a fmall feed, which is feldom
hardened into fruit, but confifts only of fkin. The long ftalk that bears the figs of
the enfete fprings from the centre of the plant, or rather is the body or folid part of
the plant itfelf. Upon this, where it begins to bend, are a parcel. of loofe leaves;,
then grows the fig upon the body of the plant without any ftalk ;
after which the
top of the ftalk is thick fetwith fmall leaves,, in the midft of which it terminates the
flow’er in the form of an artichoke ; whereas in the banana, the flower in form.of the
artichoke grows at the end of that flioot or ftalk which proceeds from the middle
of the plant, the upper part of w'hich bears the row of figs. The leaves of the en-
fete are a web of longitudinal fibres clofely fet together; and they grow from the
bottom without ftalks ; whereas the banana is in form like a tree, and has been mif_
taken for fuch. One half of it is divided into a ftem, the other is a head formed with
leaves;
48 APPENDIX TO
leaves; and, in place of the ftem that grows out of the enfete, a number of leaves,
rolled round together like a truncheon, fhoots out of the heart of the banana, . and
renews the upper as the under leaves fall off : but all the leaves of the banana
have a long ftalk ;
this fixes them to the trunk, which they do not embrace by a
broad bafe, or involucrum, as the enfete does.
“ But the greateft differences are flill remaining. The banana has by fome been
miftaken for a tree of the palmaceous kind, for no other reafon but a kind of fimila-'
rity in producing the fruit on an excrefcence or ftalk growing from the heart of the
ftem; but ftill the mufa is neither woody nor perennial; it bears the fruit but once;
and in all thefe refpe6ls it differs from trees of the palmaceous kind, and indeed
from all forts of trees whatever. The enfete, on the contrary, has no naked ftem ;
no part of it is woody : the body of it, for feveral feet high, is efculent ;
but no part
of the banana-plant can be eaten. As foon as the ftalk appears perfect and full of
leaves, the body of the plant turns hard and fibrous, and is no longer fit to be eaten
:
before, it is the beft of all vegetables. When boiled, it has the tafte of the beft new
wheat-bread not perfectly baked. When you make ufe of the enfete for eating,
you cut it immediately above the fmall detached roots, and perhaps a foot or two
higher, as th^ plant is of age. The green muft be ftripped from the upper part till
it becomes white ;
when foft, like a turnip well boiled, if eaten with milk or butter,
it is the beft of all food, wholefome, nouriftiing, and eafily digefted.”
Our author now proceeds to confider an hieroglyphic fometimes met with in
Egypt, viz. the figure of Ifis fitting between fome branches of the banana-tree, as
is fuppofed, and fome handfuls of ears of wheat. You fee likewife the hippopota-
mus ravaging a quantity of the banana-tree. Yet the banana is merely adventitious
in Egypt : it is a native of Syria ; it does not even exift in the low hot country of
Arabia Felix; but choofes fome elevation in the mountains where the air is tempe-
rate; and is not found in Syria farther to the fouthward than lat. 34*.
Upon this account Mr. Bruce thinks, that the banana, not being a plant of the
Country, “ could never have entered into the lift of their hieroglyphics; for this rea-
fon, it could not figure any thing regular or permanent in the hiftory of Egypt or its
climate. I therefore imagine (adds he) that this hieroglyphic was wholly Ethi-
opian; and that the fuppofed banana, which, as an adventitious plant, fignified no-
thing in Egypt, was only a reprefentation of the enfete; and that the record in the
hieroglyphic of Ifis and the enfete-tree was fomething that happened between harveft,
w'hich w’as about Auguft, and the time that the enfete-tree came in ufe, which
was in 06lober.—The hippopotamus is generally thought to reprefent a Nile that
has been fo abundant as to be deftru6live. When, therefore, we fee upon obelilks the
hippopotamus deftroying the banana, we may fuppofe it meant that the extraordi-
nary
r
/
/
f
'
..kC
i
ii.
‘K
.<
•^V
X'’ 8.
49
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL.
nary inundation had gone fo far as not only to deftroy the wheat, but alfo to retard
or hurt the growth of the enfete, which was to fupply its place.”
TURKEY RHUBARB. Rheum.
RHUBARB is a genus of the clafs enneandria, order trigynia. Its characters
are thefe: The flower has no empalement; it hath one petal, which is narrow at
the bafe, and impervious; the brim is cut into fix parts, which are obtufe, and alter-
nately fmaller ;
it hath nine hair-like ftamina inferted in the petal, and of the fame
length, terminated by oblong fummits, which are obtufe; and a fhort three-cornered
gerrnen, with fcarcely any ftyle, crowned by three-feathered ftigmas, which are
reflexed ; the gerrnen afterwards becomes a large three-cornered feed, with acute
membranaceous borders. Miller reckons four, and Linnaeus five, fpecies. The
true rhubarb is now fown in many gardens ;
and may probably fucceed fo well
here in time, as that a fufficient quantity of that valuable drug may be raifed to
fupply our confumption.
The rhubarb with hairy leaves and equal foot- fialks has been generally reckoned
the true rhubarb plant, having been produced from the feeds feiit from Ruffia, as
thofe of the true rhubarb, to Juflieu of Paris, Rand at Chelfea, and Linnaeus at
Upfal. It is a native of China and Siberia, and has been raifed in fome of our
own gardens, where it is found to grow with vigour in the open ground. Some
have derived its name from Rha, the river called by us Wolga, and barbarum; q. d.
“ the root found by the barbarians on the river Rha.” However it is necefiary to
obferve, that Dr. Hope received, in 1763, rhubarb^feeds from Ruflia, which Dr.
Mounfey aflured him were the feeds of the true rhubarb; and, having fowm them
in the open ground at Edinburgh, they produced a different fpecies, viz. the Rheum
pahnatum Linmei, with the leaves deeply cut into pointed fegments. He obferves
that the root of this plant, though taken up too young, and at an improper feafon,
viz. in July, agreed perfectly with the befi; foreign rhubarb in colour, 'fmell, taflc;
and purgative quality. See his botanical defcription and drawing of the plant in
Phil. Tranf. vol. Iv. art. 32. Perhaps, fays Dr. Lewis, the roots of both, fpecies
may be of the fame quality, and taken promifcuoufly. The rhaponticum is a dif-
ferent fpecies from either of thefe. Mr. Bell informs us, in his Travels, that the bell
rhubarb grows in that part of the Eaftern -Tartary called Mongallia, which ferves
as a boundary between Ruffia and China. This plant, he fays, does not run and
fpread itfelf like docks, but grows in tufts at uncertain diftances, as if the feeds had
been dropped with defign. As the Mongalls do not think it worth cultivating, the
marmots,, which burrow under the fiiade of its fpreading leaves, and probably feed
on its leaves and roots, contribute to its increafe, partly by the manure which their
dung affords it, and principally by calling up and loofening the earth, into which.
No. 29. ^ the
50 APPENDIX TO
the ripe feeds blown by the wind fall, and where they immediately take root. Af-^
ter digging and gathering the rhubarb, the Mongalls cut the large roots into fmall
pieces, in order to make them dry more readily. In the middle of every piece they
fcoopa hole, through which a cord is drawn, in order to fufpend them in a conve-
nient place ;
and by this pra6tice they deftroy fome of the befl part of the root.
All rhubarb-plants, fays Millar, are propagated by fpeds, which fhould be fown
in autumn foon after they are ripe, and then the plants will come up the following
fpring; whereas, if they are fown in the fpring, they will not come up till the next
fpring. The plants Ihould remain where the feeds are fown; and, when they appear
in the fpring, the ground thould be hoed to cut up the weeds, and they Ihould be
thinned, like carrots and parfnips, leaving them at the firft hoeing fix or eight inches
afuoder, and, at the fecond hoeing, at the dillance of at leaft a foot and a half.
After this the plants will require no other culture but to keep them clean from weeds.
In autumn the leaves decay, when the ground Ihould be made clean ;
and it ftiould
alfo be hoed and cleaned in the fpring, when the plants put out their new leaves,
In the fecond year after they come up, the ftrongeft will produce flowers and feeds;
and, in the third year, raoft of them will flow^er. The roots will remain many years
without decaying ;
and it is faid, that the old roots of the true rhubarb are much
preferable to the young ones. They delight in a rich foil, not too dry nor too moifl,
and w here there is a good depth for their roots to run down ;
in fuch land their
leaves will be very large, and their roots will grow to a great fize.
Two forts of rhubarb-roots are met with in the fhops. The firft is imported
from Turkey and Ruflfia, in roundilh pieces, freed from the bark, with a hole
through the middle of each, externally of a yellow colour, internally variegated
with lively reddifti ftreaks. The other, which is lefs efteemed, comes immediately
from the Eaft-lndies in longifli pieces, harder, heavier, and more compact, than the
foregoing. The firft fort, unlefs kept very dry, is apt to grow mouldy and worm-
eaten; the fecond is lefs fubje6l tothefe inconveniences. Some of the moreinduf-
trious artifts are faid to fill up the worm-holes with certain mixtures, and to colour
the outfide of the damaged pieces with powder of the finer forts of rhubarb, and
fometimes with cheaper materials. The marks of the goodnefs of rhubarb are,
the livelinefs of its colour when cut ;
its being firm and folid, but not flinty or hard;
its being eafily pulverable, and appearing, when powdered, of a fine bright yellow
colour; its imparting to the fpitlle, onieing chewed, a deep faffron tinge, and not
proving flimy or mucilaginous in the mouth. Its tafte is fub-acrid, bitterifti, and
fomewhat ftyptic ;
the fmell is lightly aromatic.
Rhubarb is a mild cathartic, and commonly confidered as one of the fafeft and
njoft innocent of the fubftances of this clafs. Befides its purgative virtue, it has a
'4
mild
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL. 51
mild aftringent one, difcoverable by the tafte, and by its ftriking an inky blacknefs
with chalybeate folutions ;
hence it is found to ftrengthen the tone of the ftomach
and inteftines, to leave the belly coftive, and to be one of the moft ufeful purgatives
in diarrhoeas, dyfenteries, and all diforders proceeding from a debility and laxity of
the fibres ; it is frequently given with a view to this ftomachic and corroborating
virtue, rather than to its.producing any confiderable evacuations. It tinges the urine
of a high yellow colour. Rhubarb in fubftance purges more effedlually than any
preparation of it : the dofe is from a fcruple to a dram. By roafting it with a
gentle heat, till it becomes.eafily friable, its cathartic power is diminiflied, and its
aftringency fuppofed to be increafed. The purgative virtue of rhubarb is extra6ted
more perfedtly by water than by re6tified fpirit; the root remaining after the action
of water is almoft if not wholly ina6tive; whereas, after repeated digeftion in fpirit,
it proves flill very confiderably purgative : when the rhubarb has given out to fpirit
all that this menftruum can extradt, it ftill imparts a deep colour, as well as a purga^
live impregnation, to water. A dram of the extra6t, formed by infpilfating the
watery infufion, is not more efficacious than a fcruple of the root in fubftance; but
half a dram of the extra6t formed from the fpirituous tincture proves moderately
purgative, though fcarcely more fo than an equal quantity of the pow’der. The fpi-
rituous extract diftblves almoft wholly in water; and hence the tinfture, like the
fpirituous infufions of moft other vegetables, does not turn milky on being mixed
with aqueous liquors ;
of the watery extra6t fcarcely above one fourth is diflblved by
re6tified fpirit, and the part that does not diffolve proves more purgative than that
which does. Hence it appears, that rhubarb contains much more gummy or mu-
cilaginous than refinous matter; and its purgative ruality feems to refide chiefly in
a combination of gummy and faline matter.
Tin6lures of this root are drawn in the lliops with proof-fpirit and with moun-
tain-wine, in the proportion of an ounce of rhubarb to a pint of the menftruum.
Thefe preparations, ufed chiefly as mildly-laxative corroborants, in weaknefs ofthe
ftomach, indigeftion, diarrhoeas, colicky and other fuch complaints, are commonly
aromatifed with a little cardamom-feeds and faffron, as two drams of the former
and one of the latter to the above quantity of the root, and thus are formed the
tinBura rhd vinofa 8C fpirituofa. For fome purpofes, a tincture, called tinStura
rhei dulcis, is drawn from the rhubarb and cardamom-feeds with proof-fpirit, and
two ounces of white fugar-candy diffolved in the ftrained liquor. For others, in-
ftead of fweets and aromatics, gentian and fnake-root are joined, in the proportion
of a dram and a half of the former and a dram of the latter, with the addition of
a fcruple of cochineal as a colouring ingredient ;
this laft tincture, called tinSiura
rJtii
52 APPENDIX TO
rJiel amara, is, in many cafes, an ufeful affiftant to the Peruvian bark in the cure
of intermittents.
The Turkey rhubarb is generally preferred to the Eaft-India fort, though the
latter is more aftringent, but has fomething lefs of an aromatic flavour. Tinctures
made from both, with equal quantities of re<5lified fpirit. have nearly the fametafte:
on drawing oft' the menftrua, the extract left by the tincture of the Eaft-India rhu-
barb proves in tafte confiderably ftionger than the other. They feem both, fays
Dr. Lewis, to be the produce of the fame climate, and roots of the fame fpecies
of plant, taken up probably at different feafons, or cured in a different manner.
The yellow colour of rhubarb, it is faid, is much lefs deftrudtible than many
other vegetable yellows. Aqua-fortis, and other acids which deftroy the colour of
faffron, turmeric, See. make no change in that of rhubarb, or at moll render it only
turbid. Volatile fpirits heighten the colour, and incline to red. Fixed alkaline falts
have this effedl in a greater degree. Mr. Model affirms that a confiderable quan-
tity of felenites is contained in rhubarb. In one experiment he obtained fix ounces
of felenites from four pounds of rhubarb; and, in the other, no lefs than an ounce
of felenites from two ounces and five drams of old rhubarb.
The Indian rhubarb fown in our gardens has this peculiar property, that it yields
a fine and clear gum. This is perfectly white and pellucid ;
and in the months of
June and July is fo plentiful, that an ounce may fometimes be gathered at a time
from one plant of it. It exfudates of itfelf from all parts of the ftalks and ribs of
the leaves, and fometimes from the under part of the leaves themfelves. It ftands
in fome places in large drops, and in others the ftalks, &c. feem only to be covered
with a thin layer of it; and the under part of the leaves in fome have it in form of
twifted wires or long icicles. The plant may always be feeri wounded by a fort of
cauftic in the places where the germen makes its way out, and thefe may be followed
with any pointed inftrnment through the ftdn; in fome parts of the plant this juice
is found to be turned gummy within it, and looks like clear ice. As this is the
only known herbaceous plant that yields a true gum like that of trees, it would be
worthy obfervation, whether fome of our own plants may not have fome tendency
of nature to form a juice of the fame kiud. It would be moll proper to look for
this in the plants of the fame genus, and as nearly related to the rhubarb as we
can. The docks, fo common about our fields, are of the fame genus;, and the forrel
Ihows by its tafte, that it is particularly allied to the plant; for both are alike of
the dock-kind, and both alike four. It would be proper to look carefully about
the leaves of forrel a little before it flowers, to fee whether any thing like the fame
gum appears on it.
There
, -iK
>lir- ,
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL. 53
There is yet this farther analogy between this rhubarb and our common forrel
:
that the hufks pf our forrel, boiled in water, with a little alum, turn it to a fine red
colour, and the hulks of rhubarb do the fame ;
and both the one and the other of-
ten turn red in decaying.
The juice of the roots of this rhubarb, extra6led by bruifing and fteeping it in
common water, when the liquor is drained and evaporated, becomes only a clear
uninflammable gum, and melts in the flame of a candle. This gum, as well as that
of the llalks and leaves, is of an infipid tafte; and it is obfervable, that, though the
plant naturally yields it in fo large a quantity, yet it will not flow from wounds
made by art in any part of the plant. Upon the confideration of the infipid tafte
of this gum, and its folubility in water, we may find fome probable conjedlurc
in regard to the different virtues of this plant in purging and binding.
The woody fibres have a ftrong tafte; and, in all probability, are alone endued
with the aftringent quality. An infufion of rhubarb is known to purge, and a pow-
der of it to bind ; the reafon is eafily feen on this confideration. The water in in-
fufion takes up all this gummy juice, and its other juices, but leaves the fibrofe
part behind, in confequence of which it ought to purge wdthout binding; but, in
cafe of giving the powder, the juices are in great part evaporated in jthe drying, and
the woody part left almoft alone ;
it therefore purges but little, and proves power-
fully aftringent.
INDIAN ROCU. Mitella.
THE rocu is a tree of confiderable ftature, bearing flowers of a pale red, like the
European apple-bloffoms. When the flowers fall off, a head of feed follows, of an
oblong roundifli form, and prickly, like a ehefnut. This contains that beautiful
red feed, which the Indians break or macerate, and, putting it in water, it finks to
the bottom, converting the fluid into amoft elegant tranfparent red tincture. This
tincture they pour off at their leifure, and the fediment which the feeds form at the
bottom they fuffer to dry in little cakes, with which they paint their naked bodies
in various figures, which they efteem a very great ornament.
This tree is riie urucu of Pifo ;
and Tournefort, having joined it with the two
fpecies of Cortufa Americana, calls it Mitella; for the fruit of this, as well as the
Cortufa Americana, burfts open and reprefents the lhape of an epifcopal mitre
;
and therefore he entitles it, in his Inftitut, Rei Herb, the Mitella Americana, maxima
tin^oria.
No. 29. O SPEED-
54 APPENDIX TO
SPEEDWELL. Veronica.
THE flower of fpeedwell has a permanent empalement, cut into five acute feg*-
ments, and one tubulous petal the length of the empalement ;
the brim is cut into
four oval plain fegments which fpread open, and two ftamina which are terminated
by oblong fummits ;
it has a compreffed germen, fupporting a flender declining
ftyle, crowned by a Angle ftigma; the germen becomes a compreffed heart-lhaped
capfule, with two cells filled with roundifli feeds.
The common male fpeedwell is alfo called Paul’s betony brook-lime is alfo a
fpecies of the fpeedwell. Some authors make thirty-five fpecies.
This herb is in ^reat efteem among the Germans in diforders of the breaft, both
catarrhous and ulcerous, and for purifying the blood and humours. Infufions of
the leaves, which are not unpalatable, are drunk as tea, and are found to operate
fenfibly by urine. It is frequently ufed as an ingredient in antifcorbutic and deob-
ftruent compofitions.
STARRY ANISEED. Illicium.
WE meet with an account of the ftarry anifeed, together with a figure of it, taken
from Clufius, in Parkinfon’s Theatre of Plants, p. 1569. where he obferves, that
feme branches of it, with the hulks and feeds only, without leaves or bloffoms, were
brought into England by Sir Thomas Cavendilli, in Queen Elizabeth’s time, from
the Philippine Iflands, where he met with it in his voyage round the world. Thefe
branches were given to Mr. Morgan, the queen’s apothecary, and to Mr. James
Garrat, of whom Clufius received them.
Monfieur Geoffrey, in his Materia Medica, tranllated in 1736 by Dr. G. Doug-
lafs, p. 322, calls it Anifum Sinenfe, femen badian, ^fruElus ftdlatus, and fays it is
highly efteemed in China, and all over the eaft; that it is ufed to cure any bad talle
in the.mouth, as a prefervative againft the effe6ls of bad air, and alfo for the ftone
and gravel; and that the Indians likewife fteep this fruit in water, and afterwards
ferment the infufion, and thus make a vinous liquor; that the Dutch in the Eali-
Indies, as well as the natives, mix this fruit with their tea and Iherbet.
Kaempfer in his Amoenitates Exotica}, p. 880, calls it fomo, orJkimmi; and has
given us a very good figure of a branch of it, with the leaves, flowers, and fruit.
He found it in Japan ;
and fays that the Japanefe and Chinefe efteem it a faered
tree; that they offer it to their idols, and burn the bark of it, as a perfume, on their
,
altars ;
and lay the branches upon the graves of the dead, as an offering to the
ghofts of their pious departed friends ;
and that the public watchmen ufe the pow-
der of this aromatic bark ftrewed in fmall winding grooves or little channels, on
forae
55
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL.
fome afhesin a box fecured from the weather, for the following purpofe: This powr
der, being lighted at one end, burns flowly on ; and, being come to certain marked
diftances, and fo fparkling through the grooves, they ftrike a bell, and by means of
this time-keeper proclaim the hours of the night to the public. And laftly, that it
has the remarkable property of rendering the poifon of the bladder-fifh ( Tetrodon
hifpidus, Linn. Syft. Nat.) more virulent, as many have experienced, that have ufed
violent means to deftroy themfelves.
We are indebted for the firft difcovery of this curious American tree to a negro
fervant of William Clifton, Efq. chief juftice of Weft Florida, whowasfentto col-
lect fpecimens of all the rarer plants by his mafter, in April 1765. After this, in
the latter end of January, 1766, Mr. John Bartram, the king’s botanift for the
Floridas, difcovered it on the banks of the river St. John, in Eaft Florida, as appears
from his defcription of it, and the drawing of a feed-veflel, with fome of the leaves,
which he fent to Peter Collinfon, Efq. Mr. Bartram’s defcription of it is as follows:
“ Near here my fon found a lovely fweet tree, with leaves like the fweet bay, which
fmelled like faffafras, and produced a very ftrange kind of feed-pod; but all the
feed was died, the fevere froft had not hurt it : fome of them grew near twenty feet
high, a charming bright ever-green aromatic.”
This obfervation of Mr. Bartram, relating to its bearing a fevere froft, may afford
a ufeful hint in the cultivation of this tree, efpecially as I am convinced, from re-
peated accounts of the weather in Weft Florida, that the froft is much more in-
ten fe there, from whence thofe plants were brought, than in Eaft Florida; iothat
the experiment is well worth making with one of them, to fee how far it will ftand
the feverity of our winters. Should it fucceed, it would be a very great acquifttion
to our gardeners, and be highly ornamental to our plantations of ever-greens.
The medicinal properties of this tree are certainly worth enquiring into. The
leaves afford a moft agreeable bitter. A fprig of it fet to putrify in a phial of wa-
ter, the bark foon became full of a clear mucilage. The young bloffoms, put into
water with a fmall quantity of tartar per deliquium, from a dark-reddifli colour be-
came a light-brown; but, from the fame proportion of oil of vitriol in water, they
turned- to a fine carmine colour, which ftained the paper of a fine red. This points
out its aftringent quality.
Many perfons think this plant not really a different fpecies from the oriental
one. The feed-veffels from China, however, which are to be feen in colleiftions
of the Materia Medica, efpecially among foreigners, fmell very difagreeably of
anifeed : whereas the feed-velfel of the Floridanum is agreeably aromatic, as are
the leaves and young branches. The flower, according to Kasmpfer, is of a yel-
lowifti white, and looks at a diftance like a narciffus : the prefent fpecies has a
flower
56 x\PPENDIX TO
flower of a dark-red colour. Kasmpfer reckons the number of petals fixteen, and
the rays or feed-veflels eight; the number of petals in ours is from twenty-one to
twenty-feven, and the feed-veifel twelve or thirteen that ripen. In refpe6l to the
form and growth of the tree, they are much the fame ;
for inflance, they both grow
to the fize of a cherry-lree; their leaves are of an oblong oval fliape, pointed at
both ends, flefliy, with few veins, growing alternately, and in tufts, at the ends of
the fmall branches.
Linnaeus, who takes his charafters of the Illicium anijatum from Kaempfer, places
it among the dodecandria polygynia. But I am perfuaded, that, from the following
charadlers, this muft be of the polyandria polygynia, and fliould ftand next to the
IMagnolia.
CharaHers of the Illicium Floridanum, or Florida Starry Amfeed Tree.
Calyx. The perianthium, or flower-cup, confifts commonly of five little mem-
branceous and coloured leaves, that foon fall off ;
they are of a concave, oblong
oval, form, pointed at the ends. Sometimes we meet with only four little leaves,
fometimes fix, in the flower-cup. Kasmpfer obferved four in his.
Corolla. The flower confifts of many petals (from twenty-one to twenty-feven),
which are lanceolated ; thefe are of three fizes, and equal numbers in each circle,
the outward ones are long, (about an inch,) concave, obtufe, and fpreading open.
The next are a little ftiorter and narrower; and the innermoft are ftill fliorter, much
narrower, aud very fliarp-pointed: but are not nedlaria, as Linnasus fuppofes.
Stamina. The filaments are many, (about thirty,) very fliort and flat, placed
over one another, furrounding the germina, or embryo feed-veftels. Thefe fupport
as many antheras, or fummits, which are ere6t, oblong, and emarginated, or having
a fmall indenture at top, with a cell on each fide full of farina, of a globular form
when they are magnified.
PiSTiLLUM, or female organ. The germina, or embryo feed-veflels, are twenty
or more in number, placed in a circalar order above the receptacle of the flower
;
they are comprefled, ere6t, and ending in fo many fliarp-pointed, ftyles, bending out-
wards at the top. The ftigmata, or openings on the top of the ftyles, are downy, and
placed lengthways along the upper part of each ftyle.
Pericarpium, or feed-veflfel, confifts of twelve, oftener thirteen, little pods, or
capfules, that ripen. Thefe are of a comprelfed oval fliape, and a hard leather-like
fubftance, with two valves to each, and are difpofed edgeways in a circular order,
like fo many rays of a ftar.
Semina. The feeds are fmooth and fliining, of an oval fliape, a little comprefled,
and appear obliquely cut olf at the bafe. There is one feed in each capfule.
SUGAR
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL. .57
SUGAR MAPLE TREE. Acer.
An Account of the Sugar Maple Tree of the United States, and of the Methods of
obtaining Sugar from it, together with Obfervatious upon the Advantages, both public
andprivate, of this Sugar: in a Letter to Thomas Jefferfon, Efq. Secretary {after-
wards Prejident ) of the United States, and one of the Vice-Prefdents ofthe American
Philofophical Society; by Benjamin Rujh, Profejfor of the Inftitutes, and of
Clinical Medicine in the Univerjity of Philadelphia.
THE fubje6tof this excellent paper feeras at firft fight more particularly to re-
late to the United States; but it may, and we hope will, very effentially afFe6lthe
general Hate of the world, by increafing the fupply of an article, of which the ufes
are yet, on account of its high price, but imperfe6lly known. If the monopoly of
the Weft-India iflands, where alone the wafteful culture by (laves, in the abfence of
the owner, can be fupported, (hould be gradually diminidied, and atlaft aboliflied,
by a plentiful produce of fugar froni the maple, humanity would no longer fu(Fer,
the article would find its true level, and every nation would be more or lefs benefited.
The Acerfaccharinum of Linnieus, or fugar maple tree, grows in great quantities
in the weftern countries of all the middle Rates of the Ame^rican union. It is as
tall as the oak, and from two to three feet in diameter; puts forth a white bloffom
in the fpring, before any appearance of leaves: its fmall branches afford fuftenance
for cattle, and its a(hes afford a large quantity of excellent pot-afh- Twenty years
are required for it to attain itsTull growth. Tapping does not injure it; but, on
the contrary, it affords more fyrup and of a better quality, the oftener it is tapped.
A fingle tree has not only furvived, but flourifhed, after tapping, for forty years.
Five or fix pounds of fugar are ufually afforded by the lap of one tree—though
there are inftances of the quantity exceeding twenty pounds. The fugar is feparated
from the fap either by freezing, by fpontaneous evaporation, or by boiling. The
latter method is the mod ufed. Dr. Rufh defcribes the procefs, which is fimple,
and pra^lifed without any difficulty by the farmers.
From frequent trials of this fugar, it does not appear to be in any refpe6l inferior
to that of tlie Wefi-Indies. It is prepared at a time of the year when neither infers
nor the pollen of plants exift to vitiate it, as is the cafe with common fpgar. From
calculations grounded on exifting fadls, it is afcertained, that America is now capa-
ble of producing one eighth more than its own confumption; that is, on the whole,
about 135,000,000 pounds, which in the country may be valued at fifteen pounds
weight for one dollar. Dr. Rufh mentions many other benefits his country may
derive from this invaluable tree; and concludes his paper with an account of fome
of the advantages of fugar to mankind, not merely as commonly confidered to be a
luxury, but as an excellent, wholefome, and nourifhing, article of food.
No. 29. -P TEA-f
5S APPENDIX TO
TEA-TllEE. Thjea.
THE tea-tree, thea in botany, is the name of a genus of the clafs poivan-
dria, order monogynia, the charadlers of which are thefe: The cup is a very fmall,
plane, permanent, perianthium, divided into five or fix roundifii, obtufe, leaves
;
the fiower confifts of fix or nine large, roundifii, concave, and equal, petals ; the fia-
raina are numerous filaments, about two hundred, and are very flender, capillary,
and fiiorter than the flower; the antherae are Ample; the germen of the piftil is glo-
bofe and trigonal ;
the ftyle is Tubulated, and of the' length of the ftamina; the ftig-
ma is Ample ;
the fruit is a capfule, formed of three globular bodies growing toge-
ther; it contains three cells, and opens into three parts- at the top. The feeds are
Angle, globofe, and internally angulated.
From an original drawing taken of the tree when in its flowering ftate, it appears,
that the tea-tree, as Mr. Miller firfi; obferved, belongs to the order of trigynia; and
Linnaeus was led to the miftake of placing it in that of monogynia, by not having
had any opportunity of examining any other than dried fpecimens of this fiirub.
Of this genus Linnaeus enumerates two fpecies : viz. the Bohea Tea, having flowers
with fix petals; and the Green Tea, having flowers with nine petals.
Dr. Lettfom, in his botanical defcription of the tea-plant, thinks it moft probable
that there is only one fpecies, and that the difference between the green and bohea
teas depends on the nature of the foil, culture, age, and the manner of drying the
leaves. He adds, that it has even been obferved, that a green-tea tree, planted in
the bohea country, will produce bohea, and on the contrary ;
and that on his ex-
amining feveral hundred flowers, brought both from the bohea and green tea coun-
tries, their botanical charadlers have always appeared uniform.
We are principally indebted to Kaempfer, Le Compte, and Du Halde, for an
authentic hiftory of the culture of this exotic fhrub, and the manner of preparing
or curing its leaves. The particulars of greateft importance that have been recited
have been jndicioufly colledled, and the fubjedl farther illuflrated with addi-
tional obfervations, by Dr. Lettfom.
The tea-tree thrives beftin valleys at the foot of mountains, and upon the banks
of rivers, where it enjoys a fouthern expofure to the fun ;
though it endures confi-
derable variations of heat and cold, as it flourifhes in the northern clime of Pekin,
as well as about Canton ;
and it is obferved that the degree of cold at Pekin is as
fevere in winter as in fome of the northern parts of Europe. However, the befttea
grows in a mild temperate climate, the country about Nankin producing better tea
than either Pekin or Canton, betwixt which places it is fituated.
The
V
w
J
. if
fr
'
r’’V'’i-;^-;\'' i'
'
:
W <'
1
* '
if' -
-
*>)'
'’'W.
• ” -
^.
If
%.
k>'
9
uy^'.'--, ,
<
«
4i
*.
H";
4
K.
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL. S9
The root refembles that of the peach-tree; the leaves are green, longilh at the
point, and pretty narrow, an inch and a half long, and jagged all round. The flower
is much like that of the wild rofe, but fmaller. The fruit is of different forms,
fometimes round, fometimes long, fometimes triangular, and of the ordinary fize of
a bean, containing two or three feeds, of a moufe-colour, including each a kernel.
Thefe are the feeds by which the plant propagated : a number from fix to twelve
or fifteen being promifcuoufly put into one hole, four or five inches deep, at cer-
tain diftances from each other. The feeds vegetate without any other care, though
the more induftrious annually remove the weeds and manure the land. The leaves
which fucceed are not fit to be plucked before the third year’s growth, at which
period they are plentiful, and in their prime. - ,
In about feven years the fhrub rifes to a man’s height; and, as it then bears few
leaves, and grows flowly, it is cut down to the ftem, which occafions an exuberance
of freffi flioots and leaves the fucceeding fummer ;
fome, indeed, defer cutting them
till they are of ten years growth. In Japan, the tea-tree is cultivated round the
borders of the fields, without regard to the foil; but, as the Chinefe export con-
fiderable quantities of tea, they plant whole fields with it.
The bed time to gather the leaves of tea, is while they are yetfmali, young, and
juicy ;
and the different periods in which they are gathered are particularly defcrib-
ed by Kaempfer. They are plucked carefully one by one; and, notwithftanding the
feeming tedioufnefs of this operation, the labourers are able to gather from four to
ten or fifteen pounds each in one day. The tea-trees that yield often the fined
leaves grow on the deep declivities of hills, where it is dangerou.s, and in fome
cafes impra6ficable, to colledl them. The Chinefe are faid to vanquifli this difficulty
by a fingular contrivance : the large monkeys which inhabit thefe cliffs are irri-
tated, and in revenge they break off the branches, and throw them down, fo that
the leaves are thus obtained.
The buildings, or drying-houfes, that are erefted for curing tea, contain from five
to ten or twenty fmall furnaces, about three feet high, each having at the top a
large flat iron pan. There is alfo a long low table covered w ith mats, on which the
leaves are laid, and rolled by workmen, who fit round it. The iron pan being heated
to a certain degree by a little fire made in the furnace underneath, a few pounds
of the frefli-gathered leaves are put upon the pan ;
the frelh and juicy leaves crack
when they touch the pan, and it is the bufinefs of the operator to Ihift them as quick
as poflible with his bare hands, till they become too hot to be eafily endurecf At
this inftant he takes off the leaves with a kind of fiiovel r^fembling a fan, and poors
them on the mats before the rollers, who, taking fmall quantities at a time, roil
them in the palms of their hands in one diredfion, while others are fanning them,
6 that
60 APPENDIX TO
that they may cool the more fpeedily, and retain their curl the longer. This prO'
cefs is repeated two or three times, or oftener, before the tea is put into the ftores,
in order that all the moifture of the leaves may be thoroughly diffipated, and then
curl more completely preferved. On every repetition the pan is lefs heated, and the
operation performed more flowly and cautioufly. The tea is then feparated into the
different kinds, and depofited in the ftore for domeftic ufe or exportation.
The Chinefe know nothing of imperial tea, flower of tea, and many other names,
which in Europe ferve to diftinguifh the goodnefs and the price of this fafhionable
commodity ;
but, befides the common tea, they diffinguifli two other kinds, viz. the
vom and foumlo, which are referved for people of the firft quality, and thofe who
are fick. We have two principal kinds of tea in Europe : viz.
Green tea, which is the common tea of the Chinefe, &c. F. le Compte calls it
Img-tea, and fays it is gathered from the plant in April. It is held very digeftive
and a little aftringent; it gives a paliffi-green tindlure to water, and its leaves are
much twilled. The fecond is,
Bohea tea, which is the vovi-'tea, bou~tc?ia, of the Chinefe. F. le Compte makes
this only differ from the green tea by its being gathered a month before it, viz. in
March, while in the bud ;
and hence the fmallnefs of the leaves, as w^ell as the
depth of the tindlure it gives to the water. Others take it for the tea of fome par-
ticular province ;
the foil being found to make an alteration in the properties of
the tea, as much as the feafon of gathering it. It is all bought at Nankin, and
thence brought into Europe.
As to the differences in colour and flavour peculiar to thefs two kinds, and to
their varieties. Dr. Lettfom thinks that there is reafon to fufpedl that they are, in
fome meafure, adventitious, or produced by art. He has been informed by intel-
ligent perfons, w’ho have refided fome time at Canton, that the tea about that city
affords very little fmell while growing. The fame is obferved of the tea-plants now
in England, and alfo of the dried fpeciroens from China. We are not, however,
as be obferves, to conclude from hence, that art alone conveys to teas, when cured,
the fmell peculiar to each kind ; for our vegetable graffes, for inllance, have little
or no fmell till they are dried and made into hay.
As to the opinion that the green teaow’es its verdure to an efflorefcence acquired
from the plates of copper on which it is fuppofed to be cured or dried, he fhows
that there is no foundation for this fufpicion. The infufions of the fineft imperial
and bloom teas undergo no change on the affufion of a volatile alkali, whicli would
deleft the minuteft portion of copper contained in them, by turning the liquoi s blue.
The fine green colour of thefe teas, with as little reafon, hath been attributed to
green copperas ; as this metallic fait would, on its being diffolved in water, immedi-
ately
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL. 6l
ately a6l on the aftringent matter of the leaves, and convert the infufion into ink,
as happens when a chalybeate water has been employed in the making of tea.
On the whole Dr. Lettfom thinks it not improbable, that forae green dye, pre-
pared from vegetable fubftances, is employed in the colouring of the leaves of the
green teas. And Neumann fufpe6ts, that the brown colour and the flavour of the
bohea forts are introduced by art. Both the green and bohea teas have an agree-
able fmell, and a flightly-bitterifli fubaftringent tafte; withfolution of chalybeate
vitriol, they llrike an inky blacknefs. They give out their fmell and tafte both to
watery and fpirituous menftrua; to water, the green forts communicate their own
green tinQ;ure, and the bohea their brown ;
but to a rectified fpirit they both impart
a fine deep green. The extracts, obtained by gently drawing off the menftrua from
the filtered tin«5tures, are very confiderably afEringent, and not a little ungrateful
;
but the fpirituous moft fo.
Savary alfo fpeaks of a fort of red tea, or Tartar tea, called honan icha, which
tinges the water of a pale red, and which is faid to be extremely digeftive; by
means hereof it is that the Tartars are faid to be able to feed on raw flelh. Its
tafte is earthy, and much the leaft agreeable of them all ;
but this is fcarcely known
in England.
Tea is to be chofen of the brilkeft fmell, and as whole as poffible ;
and the
greateft care is to be taken that it have not been expofed to the air to pall and
evaporate.
The drink, tea, is made in China, and throughout the greateft part of the eaft,
after the fame manner as in Europe ; viz. by infufing the' leaves in boiling water,
and drinking the infufion hot. Indeed, among us, it is ufual to temper its bitter-
nefs with fugar, but the Orientals ufe it without the addition of fugar or milk.
However, the Japanefe are faid to prepare their liquor a fomewhat different way,
viz. by pulverizing the leaves, ftirring the powder in hot water, and drinking it as
we do coffee. From the account given by Du Halde, this method is not peculiar
to the Japanefe, but is alfo ufed in fome provinces of China.
The common people, who have a coarfer tea, boil it for fome time in water, and
make ufe of the liquor for common drink. Early in the morning, the kettle, filled
with water, is regularly hung over the fire for this purpofe, and the tea is either put
into the kettle enclofed in a bag, or by means of a balket of proper fize preffed to
the bottom of the veffel, that there may be no hindrance in drawing off the water.
The Bantsjaa tea only is ufed in this manner, whofe virtues, being more fixed, would
not be fo fully extra6led by infufion.
The Chinefe are always taking tea, efpecially at meals : it is the chief treat where-
with they regale their friends. The moft moderate take it at leaft thrice a-day ;
No. 30. 0. others
APPENDIX TO
others ten times, or more ;
and yet it is computed the confumption of tea among
the Engliih and Dutch is as great in proportion as among the Orientals,
With regard to the commercial hiftory of tea, we may obferve that it was firft
introduced into Europe by the Dutch Eaft-India company, very early in the laft
century, and that a quantity of it was brought over from Holland by Lord Ar-
lington and Lord OlTory about the year Ibbb, at which time it was fold for fixty
Ihillings a-pound. But it appears, that before this time, drinking of tea, even in
public coffee-houfes in this country, was not uncommon; for, in 16'b0, a duty of
fourpence per gallon was laid on the liquor made and fold in all coffee-houfes.
The prefent confumption of it is immenfe. In 1785 it was computed that the
whole quantity of tea imported into Europe was about nineteen millions of pounds,
of which it is conje6lured that twelve millions were confumed in Great Britain and.
its dependencies. Sir George Staunton informs us, that the annual public fales
of teas, by our Eaft-India Company, did not, in the beginning of the eighteenth'
century, much exceed fifty thoufand pounds weight, independently of what little
might be then perhaps clandeflinely imported. The company’s annual fales now
approach to thirty millions of pounds ;
being an increafe of fix hundred fold in
lefs than one hundred years, and anfwers to the rate of more than a pound each,
in the courfe of the year, for the individuals of all ranks, fexes, and ages, through-
out the Britifh dominions in Europe and America. Taking an average of feven
years before the commutation-a6l, which took effeft in September 1784, the im-
portation of teas was 17,662,1151b. and, taking an average of the fame number
of years from 1784 inclufive, it amounted to 30,69 l,9711b. The importation is
now about 40, 000,0001b. of which ten millions are exported.
Afi to the properties of tea, they are ftrangely controverted ; the eaftern nations
are at leaf! as much poffelTed with an idea of their extraordinary virtues as the
Europeans ; but it is, perhaps, becaufe imagination bears as great a fway there
as here. The reafon why the gout and ftone are unknown in China, is afcribed
to the ufe of this plant.
Tea is extolled as the greateft of all medicines. Moderately and properly taken,
it a6ls as a gentle aftringent and corroborative ;
it ftrengthens the ftomach and
bowels, and is good againft naufeas, indigeftions, and diarrhoeas. It adts alfo as a
diuretic and diaphoretic. The immoderate ufe of it, however, has been very pre-
judicial to many, who have been thereby thrown into the diabetes. And thus the
infufions of tea-leaves have been extravagantly condemned by fome, and com-
mended by others. From the contradi6lory opinions even of medical writers on
this fubjebi, the natural inference feems to be, that they polfels neither noxious
nor beneficial powers in any very confiderable degree. They feem, when
moderately
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL. 6S
moderately ufed, to be for the moft part innocent ;
in feme cafes they feem to be
falutary; in feme they are apparently pfejudicial. They dilute thick juices, and
quench thii ft more effedlually, and pafs off by the natural emundlories more freely,
than more watery fluids; they refrefli the fpirits in heavinefs and fleepinefs, and
feem to countera6l the operation of inebriating liquors.
From their manifeft aftringency they have been fuppofed to ftrengthen and brace
up the folids; but this eff’edt experience does not countenance, as it is in diforders
and in conftitutions wherein corroborants are moft ferviceable that the immoderate
ufe of tea is peculiarly hurtful ;, as in cold indolent habits, cachexies, chlorofis,
dropfies, and debilities of the nervous fyftem.
Dr. Lettfom has particularly enquired into the nnedical qualities and effedls of
tea; and, having obferved thatinfufions of boheaand green tea contribute to pre-
ferve fweet fome fmall pieces of beef immerfed in them, he infers that they polTefs
an antifeptic power, when applied to the dead animal fibre; and from their ftrik-
ing a purple colour with fait of iron he deduces their aftringent quality. From
other experiments he concludesj that the a^ivity of tea chiefly refides in its fragrant
and volatile parts and that, if the ufe of it be beneficial or injurious to any parti-
cular conftitution, it becomes fo principally by means of this- odorous fragrant prin-
ciple. He apprehends that it ia the fafeft courfe to ufe the infufion of the more
ordinary kinds of this plant, which abound lefs with this fragrant principle. Or
the tea may be boiled a few minutes in order to diftipate this volatile part, w’hich
ftands charged as the caufe of thofe nervous affedlions that are faid to be produced,
or aggravated, by the ufe of this liquor. By this procefs may likewife be extradled
more copioufly the more fixed, bitter, and ftomachic, parts of this vegetable. Dr.
Lettfom, who feems to be thoroughly perfuaded of the occafionally-noxious effedts
of this volatile principle, in the finer teas efpecially, recommends this laft-men-
tioned mode of making tea, or the fubftitution of the extradt inftead of the leaves;
by the ufe of which, the nervous relaxing effedls, which follow the drinking of tea
in the ufual manner, would be in great meafure avoided. This extradi has been
imported hither from China, in the form of fmall cakes, not exceeding a quarter
of an ounce each in weight, ten grains of which might fuffice one perfon for break-
faft : but it might eafiiy be made here by fimple decodlion and evaporation, by
thofe w ho experience the noxious qualities of the volatile principles of this plant.
It may be farther obferved, that the effedt of drinking large quantities of any
vrarm aqueous liquor would be to enter fpeedily into the courfe of circulation, and
pafs off as fpeedily by urine or perfpiration, or the increafe of fome of the fecre-
tions. Its effedis on the folid parts of the conftitution would be relaxing, and
thereby enfeebling. If this warm aqueous fluid were taken in confiderable quan-
tities,
64 APPENDIX TO
titie?, its effects would be proportionable ;
and ftill greater, if it were fubftituted
inftead of nutriment. The infufion of tea, however, has thefe two peculiarities.
It is not only poffeffed of a fedative quality, but alfo of a confiderable aftringency
;
Isy which the relaxing power, afcribed to a mere aqueous fluid, is in fome mea-
fure corrected on this account. It is, perhaps, lefs injurious than many other in-
fufions of herbs, which, befides a very flight aromatic flavour, have very little, if
any, ftypticity, to prevent their relaxing debilitating effefts.
So far, therefore, tea, if not too fine, if not drunk too hot, nor in too great quan-
tities, is perhaps ])referable to any other known vegetable infufion. And if we take
into confideration, likewife, its known enlivening energy, our attachment to it will
appear to be owing to its fuperiority in tafte and effefts to moft other vegetables.
Tea may be confidered as a very powerful aphrodifiac ;
and accordingly a phy-
fician of confiderable eminence in his profeflTion, imputes the amazing population
of China, amongft other caufes, to the general ufe of it.
Various ABs of Parliament on the SuhjeB of Tea. —No tea is allowed to be im-
ported, except from the place of its growth, on pain of forfeiture, 1 1 Geo. cap. 30.
and by 24 Geo. III. cap. 38. all the duties upon tea imported, fold, or ufed, in
this kingdom fhall ceafe from September 15, 1784, at which period the Eaft-India
company is difcharged from the payment of duties on tea in their warehoufes; and
afterwards there fliall be paid a duty of 121. 10s. per cent, computed upon the
grofs prices, for all tea delivered by the company to the purchafers, which duty
•lhall be drawn back on exportation to any place where the drawback is already al-
lowed. The company is required to make four fales in the year, and to fell fuch
quantity as fliall be fufficient to fupply the demand, provided an advance of Id. per
lb. be bid upon the prices at which the teas fliall be put up; and, at the four firfl;
fales after paffing the a6t, thefe prices fliall not exceed the following rates, viz. for
bohea tea Is. 7d. per lb. for Congo tea 2s. 5d. per lb. for foucbong tea Ss. 3d. per
lb. for finglo tea 3s. 3d. per lb. and for hyfon tea 4s. 1 Id, per lb. and afterwards
the whole price at which the teas are put up fliall not exceed the prime coll, with
the freight and charges of importation, lawful intereft from the time of the arrival
of fuch tea in Great Britain, and the common premium of infurance. In lieu of
the duties on tea, this adl fubftitutes an additional duty on windows.
No drawback fliall be allowed on tea exported, except to Ireland, when the whole
duty on importation fliall be allowed. 18 Gep. II. cap. 26. 17 Geo. III. cap. 27.
Every perfon having in his cuftody more than fix pounds weight of tea is a dea-
ler; and felling without a licence, to be had for 12d. fliall forfeit 51. a month. 1
1
Geo. cap. 30. 15 Geo. II. cap. 1 1. Every perfon dealing in tea, &c. fliall caufe
tobe painted or written over the doorof his fliop, the words, “Dealer in Coffee, Tea,
Cocoa-
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL. 65
Cocoa-nuts, or Chocolate,” on pain of 2001. 19 Geo. III. cap. 69. And any dea-
ler, buying of any perfon who has not this infcription, incurs a forfeiture of 1 001.
and any other perfon lOl. By 20 Geo. III. cap. 35. no perfon fliall trade in
coffee, tea, or chocolate, without a licenfe, at the price of 5s. under penalty or
201. More than fix pounds of tea cannot be removed without a permit. 10 Geo.
cap. 10. The adulteration of tea is fubje6t to a penalty of lOOl. befides the for-
feiture of the fame, and for every pound of dyed leaves of tea, 51. 1 1 Geo. cap.
30. 17 Geo. III. cap. 29-
VERVAIN. Verbena.
THIS herb is defcribed, with a plate, in the Herbal, p. 381; but, as it has
lately come into great repute in the cure of the fcrophula or king’s evil, I cannot
make this Appendix complete without giving fome account of its ufe in that
dreadful diforder.
Take a piece of frefh common purple vervain-root, about three or four inches
long, and about the fize of the patient’s little finger, if a man or woman ;
to young
children and infants, as large as their thumb, and fo in proportion, but not lefs;
becaufe it Ihrinks much, and contains but little virtue. All the fibres are to be cut
off fmooth, and as little of the rind as poffible: to be worn always at the pit of the
ftomach, tied with a yard of white fatin ribbon, half an inch wide, round the neck
of men and wmmen of an ordinary ftature: if taller, an ell will be wanting; and
children in proportion; but no other coloured ribbon is proper; becaufe the dye
in fome colours may be prejudicial. The root mull never be wetted, not when
frelh gathered, but wiped clean with a dry cloth. It muft not be fown up, or
covered with any thing, but always worn naked at the pit of the ftomach. If,
after wearing, the ends of the fibres ftick out and hurt and prick the ftomach, they
muft be cut off with a ftiarp knife as at firft. When it has been worn a few days
it will ftirink, by the heat of the ftomach ; then the ribbon muft be tied fafter.
Obferve the root be not decayed or rotten, but frelh and green, when applied; and
it is necelfary to have a frelh one every fpring and fall.
The fores Ihould be walhed, night and morning, with a lotion compofed of vine-
gar one-third, red port one-third, and diftilled vervain-water one-third. If the
diftilled vervain-water cannot be fo eafily procured, the infufion of the leaves may
be ufed ;
that is, boiling water poured upon the herb, like tea, and covered, may
be ufed, when cold, in its Head. The fores, after walhing, Ihould be dreffed with
an ointment made of green vervain-leaves mixed with a fourth part of houfeleek-
leaves, boiled in pork lard till of a good confiftence, and the watery part wafted.
No. 30, Jt WURZEL.
APPENDIX TO
66
WURZEL MANGEL, or ROOT of SCARCITY. Beta.
THIS root in tinnre of fcarcity affords to mankind a falutary and agreeable food;
and, when fodder is dear, prefents, both in fummer and winter, a copious and
cheap nourilhment for cattle ;
which in all feafons as well as in all lands, has an
abundant and certain produce; and of which the culture is fimple, the harveft and
prefervation eafy.
This root is not to be claffed either among turnips or carrots ;
and, although in
its exterior and feed it refembles beets, it is much fuperior to thefe plants in every
refpect, and feems to be a diftin6t genus, though commonly fet down as a variety
of the Beta cycla, or white garden-beet. Its culture is fo eafy, its advantages fo
numerous, fupplying as it does the want of other food, that I think it deferves not
only to be adopted every-w'here, but to be preferred to all other roots with which
cattle are fed, even in the moft plentiful years. It is planted in open and fallow
ground; and fucceeds w'ell in all, and efpecially in moift and light lands. If in
a ftiff and clayey foil, where it cannot deepen its fibres, it ftretches horizontally,
and grows as large outwardly as it would inwardly were it not obftrudled by the
compa^tnefs of the foil.
This precious root is not fenfible of the viciflltude of the feafons : it has no de-
ftru6tive enemy ;
the all-fpoiling vine-fretter does not bite it; no other infe6l hurts
it : mildew' never affe6ts it ; nor is its vegetation ever impeded by the drieft fum-
mer. It does not impoverifh the foil which nouriflies it; on the contrary, it pre-
pares it for receiving feeds of every other kind afterw'ards.
In the months of March and April, the land being well prepared, manured, and
made light, the largeft and foundeft fcarcity-root feeds muff be chofen, fteeped in
water for tw'enty-four hours, and then dried a little, fo that they may be handled.
Lay the line upon the field, as if you were to plant roots, at the diftance of nine-
teen inches, on each fide ;
make with your finger holes one inch deep, in each of
which put one grain onl}', which cover immediately with earth. After ten or twelve
days, it will fhoot, and every grain will have four, five, or fix, roots growing toge-
ther. As foon as thefe fmall roots ffiow their fourth leaf, the feebleft of them muff
be carefully plucked off, and the fineft and moft vigorous root only left. In a
little time the growth of the roots thus fele6led w'ill be aftoniffiing; not one will
fail. After this manner, equally fimple and eafy, you avoid the tranfplanting
of the roots, and obtain leaves four or five weeks fooner ;
the roots grow finer and
larger, and deepen better ;
and, in a light land, much labour is faved.
As the roots naturally grow a little above the ground, you muft notice thofe
which do not fo appear, and bare them by removing the earth from around their top.
Sow the remains of your feed at random, that you may tranfplant the roots where
you
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL. 67
you pleafe. If you choofe to leave thefe in the fame place, they muft be thinned and
dug round early : but this is very troublefome, and the roots planted thus never grov/
fo large as thofe whofe feed has been fet. Experience has proved this difference.
At the latter end of June, or in the beginning of July, when the outer leaves are
about one foot long, the firft gathering of them is to be made, by breaking them
round and clofe to the root. For that purpofe you lean your thumb on the infide,
and at the very bottom of the leaf. You muft take care not to leave a ftump, and
to gather only the leaves which incline to the ground, always fparing thofe of the
heart of the plant; they then are re-produced, and grow fafter.
Immediately after the firft gathering, the ground round the root is to be again
dug with a mattock ;
in which operation the furface of the ground muft be re-
moved from the top of the roots with a wooden fpatula, fo that every root may be
uncovered about two inches, w’hich then feems to be planted in a kind of bafon nine
or ten inches in diameter. A child may eafily do this. In light lands it fuffices to
grub the weeds, and ufe well the fpatula. After this fecond very important opera-
tion, there is nothing more to be done, but to ufe the leaves at pleafure. From this
moment the roots begin to ftretch and grow wonderfully. Be careful to deftroy
all grofs weeds, which partake of their nutrition ;
and give them the advantage of
the open air, when they may be left to their own inconceivable vegetation.
In a good foil the leaves of thefe roots may be gathered every tw’elfth or fifteenth
day. I have often remarked, that the leaves grow to the length of nearly two inches
and a half, and to the breadth of one inch and a half, within twenty-four hours
;
and, at the fecond gathering, they are twenty-eight and thirty inches long, and
twenty or twenty-two broad. This account may appear exaggerated till expe-
rience prove the truth of it.
Oxen, other cattle, and flieep, are fond of thefe leaves, with which they are eafily
fed and fattened to the greateft advantage, eating them whole, as they are brought
from the field ;
but for poultry they muft be minced and mixed with bran. They
are alfo very good nouriftiment for horfes during the fummer ; for this purpofe
th^y need only be minced with that kind of knife which I fiiall hereafter defcribe,
an^ mixed with cut ftraw. Swine alfo eat them very heartily.
The leaves of fcarcity-root afford alfo a wholefome and pleafant food for man.
The ftalks of them are eaten like thofe of beets, but have not the fame earthy tafte.
They may be prepared in different manners: when dreffed like fpinage, many prefer
them to it. By the continual fucceffion of their produdlion, from fpring to the
month of November, they are very ufeful to farmers, and all others who maintain
a great number of fervants. In winter-time the roots are eaten, dreffed alfo different
ways ;
they are wholefome, of an agreeable tafte, much fuperior to the red-beet, and
APPENDIX TO
at leaft equal to the turnip. The leaves produced by the roots when preferved in
a cellar, during the winter, are very foft and delicate.
The approach of fevere frofts fhows the time for getting-in the roots. This pre-
cious harveft muft be made in fine weather, though it be a few days fooner than
otherwife neceflfary, as the prefervation of the roots depends very much on their
being houfed dry. The roots muft be plucked early in the morning, and left ex-
pofed to the air and fun ;
children go behind the perfon who plucks them, and
cut the leaves to fthe heart; an operation which may as well be performed one or
more days before the harveft. In the evening the roots muft be colledled together,
and, if fufficiently dried, lodged in a place well fecured againft fevere frofts. If there
is nothing to be apprehended from rain, thofe which have been plucked in the even-
ing may be left in the field, and carried home next day. It is beft to leave them
expofed to the air for two or three days, when the weather wdll permit. As their
ikin is very thin, they muft be handled foftly, and great care taken not to bruife
them, which would be prejudicial to their prefervation.
The harveft-time is precifely that wherein the roots proper for bearing feed fhould
be fixed upon; and thofe are the beft for the purpofe which have attained only to a
middle fize, are fmooth and even, rofy on the outfide, and white or marbled white-
and-red within. Such is the defcription of the roots which ought to be preferved
for cultivation. Thofe which are entirely red or entirely white, are either roots
degenerated, or the real red-beets, whole feeds have not been carefully diftin-
guiftied by the fower. It is neceftary to feparate, and llielter from all moifture
and froft, the roots which are defigned for feed.
In the beginning of April, thofe roots which have been fet apart for feed muft
be planted in the open field, three feet diftant from each other. As their Items
grow five or fix feet high, they muft be kept up with props feven feet long, placed
a foot and a half in the ground, with fmall rods between them, in order to form a
kind of trellis, to which the Items are tied, as they grow up, to prevent their being
broken by the wind.
The feed ordinarily ripens towards the latter end of Odtober : it muft be ga-
thered immediately after the firft hoar-frofts. The Items are then cut, and placed
againft a wall or palifade, if the weather permits ;
if not, they are tied in fmall
bundles, and hung up in a Iheltered airy place, till they are quite dry. At laft the
feed is taken and preferved in bags, like others of the kitchen-garden.
The feed of the fcarcity-root degenerates, like all others, if the foil is not changed
every year, or every two years. Care muft be taken, therefore, to fow in a ftiff foil
that feed which has been grown in a light or fandy foil ;
and in light foil, that
wluch has been grown in a ftrong and compadl foil. Thus thofe who cultivate
fuch
CULPEPER^s BRITISH HERBAL. 69
fuch or fueh lands may be of great fervice to one another by making annual ex-
changes. This feed preferves all its qualities for three or four years.
If the quantity of the roots you intend to preferve is too great to be lodged in
the houfe, fome days before they are pulled pits fhould be dug in the field, or. any
other place that is fiieltered from water during the winter. After the infide of
thefe pits has been left to dry for eight or ten days, their bottom and fides mull be
covered with a fmall quantity of ftraw, and the roots afterwards be placed regularly
one by one, taking care not tobruifethemy and to clean them well from the particles
of their natural foil. Then let the upper roots be over-laid with ftraw, which is to
be covered three feet deep with the earth dug from the pit; and this earth rnuftbe
hard beaten, and difpofed in a floping manner, that the water may eafily flow off.
The dimenfions of the pits ought to be proportioned either to the rifing of the
ground, or to its declivity. They may be from two to three feet deep. Their
length depends on the quantity of roots which are to be placed in them, but their
breadth is commonly three feet and a half.
Thefe roots pofleffing the valuable quality of being capable of prefervation till
the month of June without the leaft alteration, it will not be amifs to multiply the
pits, and to make one for each month, beginning in March, when the winter-pro-
vifion is ordinarily over. The reafon for this advice to multiply the pits is, be-
caufe, if the roots, after having been deprived of the a6lion of the air, are expofed
to it anew, they do not preferve their freftmefs long. The multiplying of the pits
will prevent this inconvenience.
Every pit abfolutely requires an air-hole, through which the fermentation of the
roots may evaporate; for without this precaution all the roots you intend to pre-
ferve under the earth will rot. The air-hole muft be made in the following man-
ner : —Before any thing is put into the pit, a pole fix or feven feet long, and twe
inches in diameter, muft be planted in the middle of it; then place therein the
roots, and difpofe them in a floping dire^lion. When the pit is fulli, and the roots
are half a foot above the level of the ground in the middle part, tvvift a rope of
hay about an inch thick round the pole, taking care not to bind it too hard. After
that is done, throw on the earth, and difpofe and beat it as before-mentioned.
When the pit is quite covered, take out the pole ;
the hay will remain in the hole,
through which the exhalation arifing from the fermentation of the roots will pafs.
After fome days, the hole muft be covered with a pan-tile, and, on the approach
of fevere cold, Ihut quite clofe with a flat ftone.
That cattle of every kind may eat the roots, they muft be cut or minced, after
they have been waflied and cleaned; which. is done with a kind of knife, i. e. a blade
of iron,, one foot long and two inches broad, bent like an S, to the middle of which
No, 30. S IS
TO APPENDIX TO
is foldered a focket about fix inches long. In this focket is fixed a wooden han-
dle, about three feet fix inches long. With this knife, which at fii ft fight feems
intended for printing the letter S, the roots are minced as equally as eafily. This
operation is performed in a bucket or trough ufed for that purpofe only. A fingle
man in one hour is able to mince a quantity of roots fufficient to feed twelve oxen
a whole day. Before the roots are put into the trough, they mufl be cut in large
pieces. It will be beft to mince them as fmall as a walnut.
The roots, being prepared as above, may, without being mixed with any other
food, be given to horned cattle and flieep, and efpecially to thofe which are to be
fattened : but, if it is neceffary to be fparing of the roots, they may be mixed with
one-fourth part or more of hay and minced ftraw. It is even proper to obferve
that method during the three or four firft weeks, with refpedt to lean cattle, which
are meant to be fattened. Dry trefoil, faintfoin, &c. are bed for this ufe. Thofe
v. ho have a hay-knife for cutting dry fodder, of the fame fort with that ufed in
Germany with fo much fuccefs and advantage, will fave much time, and confume
Icfs of their provifion.
ilorfes may be fed, during the winter, with the fcarcity-roots, by adding to them
one half of hay and draw minced together, which will make them healthy, fat, and
vigorous. But in the feafon of hard and conftant labour, a fmall quantity of oats
mud, from time to time, be added. This is the pradtice in thofe provinces of Ger-
many w'here the fcarcity-roots ferve almod indead of meadows, and of which the
horfes are well knowm and edeemed.
Swine eat thefe roots very w’ell, raw, minced, and mixed in their greafy or milky
drink. They become as fat as thofe which are fed with potatoes, which require to
be boiled. By the ufe of this root, the expenfe of wood and coals, as w'ell as the
trouble of boiling, &c. is faved.
Befides the advantages which have been already enumerated, the fcarcity-roots
afford many others; amongd which, in particular, is the certainty of an abundant
barved, whatever may be the intemperature of the feafons.
If the culture of this root is adopted, it will no more be neceffary to let the grafs
of the natural or artificial meadows be eaten by cattle during the fummer; all
which will, therefore, be converted into hay. How great, then, will be the quanti-
ty of hay to be fold, fince, during the winter, more than tw'o-thirds of it w ill be
faved ! And, as the roots facilitate the feeding cattle in the dables for the w'hole
year, the quantity of dung, fo neceffary to agriculture, will be increafed.—When
this root lhall be well known to the farmers, there is no doubt but they will pre-
fer it to all other fodder of the like kind.
TABLES
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL. , 71
TABLES and INSTRUCTIONSfor GATHERING HERBS and PLANTS
in the PLANETARY HOUR.
TABLE No. I.
To find the Beginning and End of the Planetary Hour by Day for ever.
Place
of the
©•'
oon to
Place
of the
0.
Hours from Sun-rife to Noon. Hours from N Sun-fet.
I 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 1
1
12
SignD H. M, H. M. H. M. H. M. H. M. H. M. H. H. M. H. M. H. M. H. M. H. M H. M. SignD
T o 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 10 0 1 1 0 12 I 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 1^30
3 5 54 ^ 55 7.56 8 57 9 58 10 59 I 2 I 2 ,
3 4 5 6 27
6 47 47 51 54 56 58 2 4 6 9 1
1
13 24
9 41 44 47 51 54 57
0
6 10 13 16 19 21
12 35 39 43 48 52 56 4 8 13 17 21 25 18
15 28 33 39 44 49 55 5 1
1
16 21 27 31 15
18 22 28 35 '
41 47 54 6 13 ^9 25 32 38 12
21 16 23 31 38 45 53 -
7 15 22 29 37 44 ^
9
24 ^ 10 1
8
27 35 43 52 8 17 25 33 42 5 ^ 6
27 j 13 22 32 41 51 10 19 29 38 48 •
57 3
a 0 4 57 8 18 29 39 50 1
1
2
1
32 42 53 7 3 0
n
J 51 3 14 26 49 12 23 35 46 58 9 27
6 45 5 58 10 23 48 13 25 38 50 6 4 15 24
9 40 52 7 20 47 13 27 40 53 7 20 21
12 34 48 3 17 46 14 29 43 57 12 26 iS
15 28 42 6 59 14 45 15 31 46 5 ' 17 31 15
18 23 39 55 12 44 16 32 49 5 21 37 12
21 18 35 52 9 43 17 34 51 8 25 41 9
24 12 3^ 48 6 42 18 36 54 12 30 48 6
27 8 27 45 4 41 19 37 56 15 33 52 n
n 0 2 23 42 2 41 20 39 59 18 38 57 SI 0
3 3 59 19 39 0 40 20 40 I 21 4 ^ 8 , I 27
6 55 16 37 7 58 39 21 42 0
23 44 5 24
9 51 13 34 56 39 22 43 5 26 48 9 21
12 48 10 32 54 38 22 44 6 28 50 12 18
15 45 8 30 53 38 23 45 8 30 53 15 15
18 43 6 29 52 37 23 46 9 33 54 17 12
21 41 4 27 5 t
37 23 46 10 32 56 19 9
24 40 3 27 50 37 23 47 10 33 57 20 6
27 39 % 5 ^^
3 ^ 24 47 I 1
34 5 ^ 2
1
3
30 38 I 25 49 36 24 47 1
1
35 58 22 25 0
TABLE
72 APPENDIX TO
TABLE No. II.
To find the Beginning and End of the Planetary Hour by Day for ever.
Place
of the
o.
Hours from Sun-rife to Noon. Hours from Noon to Sun-fet.
Place -
of the i
©.
I 2 3 4 5 6
7
8 9 10 I r ’
12
SignD H. M H. M. H. M. H.M. H.M. H. M. H. H.M. H. M. H. M. H. M. H.M. H. M. SignD ^
O 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 10 0 1 1 0 12 I 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 )^ 3°
3 6 5 4 3 2 I 0 59 I
58 2 57 3 56 4 55 5 54 27
6 13 1 ]
9 7 4 2 58 ' 56 54 51 49 47 24
9 19 1
6
13 10 6 3 57 ^ 54 5 ^
47 44 41 21
12 25 21 17 13 8 4 5*6 5
'^ 48 43 39 35 18
15 32 24 21 1
6
1
1
5 55 49 44 39 33 28 15
18 38 30 25 ^9 13 6 54 47 41 35 28 21 12
21 44 37 29 22 15 7 53 45 38 3 ^ 23 16 9
24 50 42 33 25 17 8 52 43 35 27 18 10 6
27 57 48 38 29 19 9 51 41 31 23 13 '
3 3
ni 0 7 3 53 42 32 21 10 50 I
39 29 18 8 4 57 ¥: 0
3 9 58 46 35 23 1
1
49 I
37 26 14 3 51 27
6 15 8 3 50 38 25 12 48 35 23 10 3 58 45 24
9 20 7 53 40 27 13 47 33 20 7 53 40 21
12 26 12 57 43 29 14 46 31 '7 3 48 34 18
I f
u 32 17 9 J 46 3 ^ 15 45 29 14 2 59 43 28 15
18 37 21 5 49 32 16 44 28 12 55 39 22 I 2
21 42 25 8 51 34 17 44 26 9 52 35 18 9
24 48 30 1
2
54 36 18 43 I 24 6 48 30 L3
6
27 52 33 15 56 37 19 41 23 4 45 27 8 3
1 0 57 38 18 59 39 20 41 21 2 42 23 3 0
/VW
8 I 41 21 10 I 40 20 40 20 0 39 19 3 59 27
6 5 44 23 2 41 21 39 18 I
57 36 15 55 24
9 9 48 26 4 42 22 39 17 56 34 13 51 21
12 12 50 28 6 44 22 38 16 54 32 10 48 18
15 L 53 30 8 45 23 38 I 15 53 30 8 45 15
18 17 54 31 9 45 23 37 14 51 28 5 43 I 2
21 19 56 33 10 46 23 37 14 5 ^ 27 4 41 (,
24 20 57 33 10 47 23 37 I 13 50 27 3 40 6 ,
27 21 58 34 1
1
47 23 37 13 50 26 2 39 <
3c 22 58 3
*''
1
1
47 24 36 13 49 25 2I 38 yy 0 :
TABLE
i
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL. rs
TABLE No. III.
To find the Planetary Hours for every Day in
Sun-riling.
the Week, beginning at
Sunday. Monday, Tuefday, Wednefd. Thurfday. Friday. Saturday.
Planets H Planets L Planets H Planets L Planets H Planets H Planets H
O 1 3) I (3 I $ I X I 9 I b I
9 2 b 2 0 2 2 (3 2 5 2 7i 2
5 3 X 3 9 3 b 3 0 3 D 3 c? 3
D 4 6 4 5 4 X 4 9 4 b 4 0 4
b 5 0 5 3)
5 6 5 5 X 5 9 5
% 6 9 6 b 6 0 6 3> 6 6 6 5
3
6
6 7 7 X 7 9 7 b 7 0 7 3)
7
O 8 3) 8 6 8 5 8 7^ 8 9 8 b 8
9 9 b 9 0 9 3)
9 c? 9 5 9 X 9
? 10 10 9 10 b JO 0 10 3) 10 6 10
3) 1
1
1
1
? 1
1
7i 1
1
9 1 1 b 1
1
0 1
1
b 12 0 12 3) 12 12 5 12 7^ 12 9 12
X 13 9 A 3 b 13 0 13 3) ^3 C? 13 9 13
6 14 5 14 14 9 14 b 14 0 U 3) 14
O 15 3) 15 c? 15 5 15 7i 15 9 15 b 15
9 16 b 16 0 16 3) 1
6
S 16 $ 16 7^ 16
5 17 17 9 17 b 17 0 17 3) '7 c? 17
18 6 18 9 18 7i 18, 9 18 b 18 0 iS
b 19 0 19 3) 19 6 19 5 ^9 7^ 19 9 19
X 20 9 20 b 20 0. 20 3) 20 C? 20 5 20
6 21 3 21 X 21 9 21 b 21 0 21 3) 21
O 22 3) 22 <S 22 5 22 22 9 22 b 22
9 23 b 23 0 23 3) 23 c? 23 5 23 7i 23
5 24 7^ 24 9 24 b 24 0 24 3) 24 e 24
No. 30. T To
)
74 APPENDIX TO
To find what Planet rules any Hour of the Day by the Table No. III.
LET it be obferved, aftrological hours are regulated by the motion of the fun
both in fummer and winter ;
and the fpace of time which is contained from fun-
rife to fun-fet is divided into twelve equal parts, whereof the one half contains the
hours before noon, the reft the hours after noon. So alfo the fpace of time from;
fun-fet till fun-rife is divided into twelve parts; thefe hours are unequal, conftft-
ing of more or lefs than fixty minutes, as the fun recedes from y' or £:, as will
be feen by example by the foregoing Table.
The feven planets are attributed by the ancients to preftde over the feven days
of the week, and each of them rules over the firft hour of each day, as may be feeii;
by the Table. The firft planetary hour of Sunday is the Sun, the fecond is Venus,
and fo on ;
the firft planetary hour of Monday is the Moon, the fecond is Saturn;
and the fame is to be obferved of the other days.
The ufe of thefe Tables will appear by bare infpeclion, as they require no fort
of calculation, but a perfon of the meaneft capacity will be able to underftand
them. The reafon of their being placed in this manner, in the form of Tables, is,,
becaufe no Herbals which fpeak of the force and power of planetary influx, and
the neceffity of gathering herbs for medical ufe under the planet which principally
governs them, have laid down any rule whereby any herbarift may know when
thofs planetary hours are, and confequently could not know the fit time to gather
them. This deficiency has not only occafioned much uneafinefs in the minds of
many medical gentlemen, but has much prevented the progrefs of cures, and many
diforders have been deemed incurable from not making ufe of the precifion which
is abfolutely neceffary for the perfedlion of fome cures.
Thefe Tables are fo calculated, as by bare infpedlion to point out thofe beautiful
times, when man, who is endowed with a rational foul derived from the centre, is
able, by expanding itfelf into the circumference of this outward nature, fo to hit
upon the hour, not only in gathering of herbs, roots, &c. but to adminifter them in
a time correfponding thereunto, and thereby force from the patient the offending
matter that robs him of the moft invaluable bleffing of health. But, as I intend
not this as a treatife, but as a fmall part of the Key to Phyfic, I ftiall therefore
pafs over all obfervatious on the ebb and flow of all fublunary virtues in terrene
things, and only fay, that truth needs not many words to recommend it, but
will demonftrate itfelf by trial ; fo thefe Tables, and the reft of this little Key,
will prove to the affii6led patient, or to the compaffionate phyfician, the legitimate
offspring of TRUTH and EXPERIENCE.
EXAM-
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL. 75
EXAMPLE I.
To find the planetary hour on Sunday, the 22d of April, 17P2, at half-paft ten
o’clock in the morning.—I examine in the Ephemeris what degree the Sun is in,
• and find on that day at noon he is in three degrees of the fign Taurus ;
with this
degree I enter the Table No. I. and feek three degrees of 0 in the firft column,
and, by running even in the columns, in the feventh column I find lOh. 49m.
which fiiows me, if I look on the top of the Table, that the fifth planetary hour
would finifli at forty nine minutes pafl ten o’clock in the morning. Now I refer
to the former column, and find the fifth planetary hour began at tbirty-feven mi-
nutes paft nine o’clock ;
and, as the time I entered was I Oh. 30m. in the morning,
and it being between 9h. 37m. and lOh, 49m. it proved it to be the fifth planetary
hour. To know what planet ruled this hour, I enter the Table No. III. and,
counting down the planets in the firft column under the word Sunday, find the fifth
planetary hour on that day to be Saturn ;
if it had been on a Monday, the fifth
planetary hour would have been the Sun; on a Tuefday, it would have been the
Moon; on a Wednefday, Mars; and fo on; by which rule may be found the
planetary hour for any day of the week.
EXAMPLE II.
We will fuppofe that we want to find the hour of Venus on Saturday, the 19th
of Januarj^, 1795. —I look into the Ephemeris, and find the Sun at noon on that
day is in deg. 0^. I enter the Table marked No. III. and, in the column of the
planetary hours under Saturday, I find the fifth hour is under Venus; now, as the
Sun is in 0 deg. of Aquaries, I enter the Table No. II. in the right-hand column
with 0^, and in the ninth column on the left hand I find the planetary hour of
Venus began twenty minutes paft eleven o’clock, and continued till noon on that
day.
Such was the mode of pra6lice, when nature only was confulted, and theinten'*.
tion really to make a cure, without a view to gain: then difeafe was but little
known, and people lived to a good old age.
{
CONTENTS:
( 76 )
CONTENTS OF the APPENDIX.
OEruvian or Jefuits’ Bark page I Pimento, or Jamaica Pepper Tree 40
Bread-Fruit Tree -
9 Plantain-Tree - 44
Cafhew-Nut Tree .. 12 True Turkey Rhubarb -
49
Canella Alba *3 Indian Rocu a 53
CofFee-Tree -
H Speedwell 54
Citrus, or Forbidden-Fruit Tree - 20 Starry Anifeed 54
Garcinia - 22 Sugar Maple Tree - 57
Manchineel-Tree 24 Tea-Tree 5*
Marfh-Mallow of Surinam 25 Vervain 65
Mandrake =*
27 Wurzel Mangel, or Root of Scarcity * 66
Mimofa, or Senfitive Plant - 27 Tables and Directions for gathering Herbs 7 •y T
Myriftica, or Nutmeg-Tree -
34 and Plants in the Planetary Hour 7*
Flowering Pavonis - 40 Explanation of the Tables - 74
GENERAL DIRECTIONS to the BINDER.
LET the Plates belonging to the APPENDIX be placed as nearly oppofite to the defcription of
each plant as circumllances will allow; obferving never to place two cuts together, but to turn
over the next leaf, fo as to have one leaf of letter-prefs between them.
DIRECTIONS FOR binding the KEY and CULPEPER together.
Let the APPENDIX be placed at the End of CULPEPER’s BRITISH HERBAL, which
will complete the firfl- Volume; and at the End of the MEDICAL PART of CULPEPER,
add the KEY to PHYSIC, &c. which will divide them into two uniform Volumes, and make the
whole Subjedl complete.—To be lettered, Dr. SIBLY’s FAMILY PHYSICIAN.
DIRECTIONS for binding Dr. Sibly’s Works in FOUR VOLUMES.
LET the Sixty Numbers of the Astrology be divided into two Volumes; and the above two
volumes added to them, making four in the whole; to be double-lettered, in the following Order,
viz. The WORKS of Dr. SIBLY, to be the general Title of each Volume; then under
Vol. I. is to be added, DOCTRINE of the STARS. Under Vol. II. CALCULATION of
NATIVITIES. Under Vol. III. BRITISH HERBAL. Under Vol. IV. FAMILY PHY-
SICIAN.
Let the Portrait of Dr. Siblybe placed at the beginning of the firfl: Vol. The Frontifpiece of
the Occult Sciences to front the fecond Vol. The Portrait of Culpeper the third Vol. And the
Frontifpiece of the Key, the fourth Vol.
A general Title for each Volume of Dr. Sibly’s Works, to be placed before the Frontifpieces,
may be had gratis by thofe who have taken the whole in Numbers, and want to bind them uniform,
by applying at the publifher’s.
END OF THE APPENDIX.
W. Lewis, Printer, St. john’s-s^uare, Londen.
