{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1arazdordi_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Arazdordi T NDE 9655","mylang":"de"}
          	        Arazdordi T NDE 9655  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Arazdordi T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5214 Arazdordi T NDE 9655  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    Near Death Experience in the Caspian Sea

  Another harrowing drowning incident unfolded when I was 19 years old. At the time, I was a freshman student enrolled at Pahlavi University, in Iran. Following the completion of my first year, I journeyed back home for the summer break. I was accompanied by four friends. We embarked on a motorboat excursion to the Ashour Aadeh peninsula on the shores of the Caspian Sea. Our purpose for the day was to pay a visit to my high school classmate, Hamid, who happened to be the son of the island's mayor. Hamid welcomed us as we reached the island's waterfront pier. After an extensive walking tour of the island, he proposed that we indulge in a swim. I inquired about the ‘NO SWIMMING’ sign displayed on the beach, to which he assured us that it was merely a precautionary measure and the beach was indeed safe for swimming.
  
  As we all waded into the water, engaging in a game of ‘throw and catch,’ I was selected as the catcher for the round. The  ‘catcher’ would be tossed into the air by the others, while the remaining participants swiftly swam away to evade capture. The person captured would then become the next catcher. During one such instance, I was chosen to be thrown up. As they raised me and counted to three, I soared into the air. Being the smallest of the group, the stronger boys threw me exceptionally high. Upon descending, I landed headfirst into the water. The group dispersed quickly, maintaining distance to avoid being captured by me.  My head was lodged in the sand and I was trapped and couldn't get free. Struggles to free myself only resulted in sinking deeper. I was suffocating.  As the constriction of my breathing intensified, I felt a transitory sharp chest pain. 

  I transitioned into a state of calmness, devoid of pain. I became serene as I saw a panoramic realm characterized by radiant light. In this boundless and luminous space, I encountered a multitude of smiling baby faces.  They greeted me with waves of welcome. Amidst this luminous expanse, I observed my entire life encapsulated within a single snapshot among these angelic visages. The sight filled me with immense elation.  Their delighted gazes were fixed upon me. These images were purity, divine holiness, and unparalleled beauty. Witnessing them was the most tranquil moment I had ever encountered in my life.
    
    I was in heaven. I felt like I knew all the faces, and indeed, I knew them all not by name, but by who they were on earth before they died. They were all my long-deceased ancestors who came to greet me. They were waving at me with their smiling, angelic baby faces, and invited me to join them. I don't know how much time had passed, but it felt like an eternal experience lasting a whole lifetime. I wanted to stay here forever. I was suddenly awakened by an impact on my chest. I opened my eyes to see my friend Moraddordi's tearful face. He had his hands on my chest and was crying. I started coughing out sand, mud, and salty water. I was surrounded by everyone in our group who were relieved and joyful once they saw me coughing and alive.

    After a few minutes of settling down, my friends eventually told me how they had saved me from drowning. My friend turned and looked in my direction while he was swimming away.  He saw my toes where they had thrown me into the air. He immediately assumed there was a problem and warned the others. They swam back to find me stuck on the sea floor. Moraddordi immediately pulled me up, and they all carried me to the shore and laid me down. They saw I wasn't breathing, but nobody knew what to do.  Luckily, I started coughing and breathing. 

    Those divine faces of babies became imprinted in my mind, and I can still see them today.        

Background Information:       

Gender: 	Male    

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1970    

NDE Elements:       

    At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.    Drowning.       Other drowning during a swimming game    
    
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant    

Did you feel separated from your body?    No      I lost awareness of my body    

    How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal.   I was in the different world    
    
At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       unconscious    

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast    

    Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.    Time had no meaning as I saw a snapshot of endless number of my ancestral babyfaces    
    
Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid    

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     20/20    

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    no hearing problem    

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No    

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No         

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No    

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     . I felt like I knew all the faces, and indeed, I knew them all not by name, but by who they were on earth before they died. They were all my long-deceased ancestors who came to greet me. They were waving at me with their smiling, angelic baby faces, and invited me to join them. 

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin    

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I became serene as I saw a panoramic realm characterized by radiant light. In this boundless and luminous space, I encountered a multitude of smiling baby faces.  They greeted me with waves of welcome. Amidst this luminous expanse, I observed my entire life encapsulated within a single snapshot among these angelic visages. The sight filled me with immense elation.  Their delighted gazes were fixed upon me.    

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     a panoramic realm characterized by radiant light. In this space, boundless and luminous, I encountered a multitude of smiling baby faces that greeted me with waves of welcome.    

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt immense elation.    

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness    

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy    

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature    

    Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     It was the continuum of life.
    
Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No         

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No         

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No       

God, Spiritual and Religion:       

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Muslim       

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Peace of mind at the time death may lead to a serene transitional realm. The knowingly wrong doings may catch up during that transition that may alter the state of the experience.    

What is your religion now?       Muslim       

    Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I never believed encountering ancestral in their faces!    
    
Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am not afraid of dying.    

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin.   Peace of mind at the time death may lead to a serene transitional realm. The knowingly wrong doings may catch up during that transition that may alter the state of the experience.    

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No    

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No         

    During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I felt like my whole life energy had condensed and fused with the radiant luminous that encapsulated the greeting babyfaces. I felt no sense of previous earthly life. I felt I have been one of them forever!    
    
During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No         

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:       

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No         

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     All my deceased ancestral greeted me to join them.    

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No         

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No         

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Unconditional angelical love I felt among them.    

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life         

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No     

After the NDE:       

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No       

    How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  Those divine faces of babies became imprinted in my mind forever, and I can still see them today.    
    
Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No         

    Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It is extremely significant to me to believe that I will be greeted and joined by my ancestors.    
    
    Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I began sharing my NDE many years later after I moved to USA in late 1970's during my graduate school years.    
    
Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No       

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The experience was so vivid and real that I have carried it all my life. I have been visiting those encounters in my mind when I need a serene time for relaxation.    

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     The encounter was as real as it can get.  But I am leaving some contribution of ‘transitional state of mind’ to the experience.    

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       At the age of 6, I became unconscious and assumed dead from falling off a runaway horse. During this incidence I did not encounter the same NDE experience I had when I was 19.                 			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1arazdordi_t_nde.html