{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1araceli_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Araceli S NDE 2906","mylang":"de"}
          	        Araceli S NDE 2906  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Araceli S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1012  Araceli S NDE  2906  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  Kamuning Road is a two way street emerging from the Main Highway 54 - EDSA. This is a main street where both public and private vehicles traverse twenty four hours a day and I live along this street. I grew up in this vicinity so I know how the traffic goes and how jeep drivers come and go as they wish. It is a common knowledge here that in a vehicular accident involving human vs. machine, it would be cheaper for an offender to settle financially if the victim dies in the process. This will explain the behavior of the driver responsible for my accident.

It was early afternoon of February 1986. I went out to buy a gift for my husband and took a public jeep coming back. On my way home, I decided I would stop at a convenient store a few houses away from my home. We rode past my house.  Just across the store was a parked car blocking us.  The driver overtook it and stopped just in front of the car. I got out of the public jeep.  On my left side was the parked car blocking me from any upcoming vehicle. I looked to my right and left before crossing but stopped in the middle where the white line was, because of an oncoming car to my right. I looked to my left and saw an upcoming jeep from the main Highway. By visual calculation it was a safe distance.  The upcoming jeep from my left was not my concern since it would stay within the left lane. I was in the middle aisle, so I waited for the right lane traffic to ease up (empty). I was stepping my right foot forward when a sudden gush of wind swept my hair and made me turn my head to my left.  Before I could say anything the last thing I saw was the upcoming jeep from the left lane suddenly occupying the right lane and ramming me on my left side waist down.

The witnesses narrated how they saw me thrown a few meters away but the driver didn't stop the jeep. The horrified bystanders saw me trying to raise myself when I was rammed again by the same vehicle and for the second time I was thrown like a bouncing ball and landed horizontally on the right lane motionless. The driver did not stop instead he tried to mow me down.

Behind all this drama something else was happening to me. I suddenly saw myself sprawled to the ground and there was a silver thread connected to that lifeless body of mine and to me floating; hovering just above the whole scene. I suddenly heard a voice commanding to move my body from head sideways with my face flat on the ground and straightened my feet. From that perpendicular position to the wheels at that I watched my motionless body and I started to repeat what the Voice is commanding - move!!! I saw myself being moved in a split second in alignment parallel to the wheels with the chassis nearly decapitating me. I saw the chassis hitting my head as my face turns to my right. It was like triple scenes happening all at the same time. Me bloody, underneath the moving jeep in complete alignment between the four wheels; me above where sounds were tuned out except that Powerful Voice giving out commands. A family friend who witnessed the accident was screaming ''She is dead!'' because they saw me being run over by the wheels, with my legs and head in perpendicular position to that of the wheels before that final impact. They failed to see how my body was turned sideways in the same way the jeep driver failed to finish me off.

I was told a compassionate passenger, an old lady embraced me guarded me along the way as the driver took me to the hospital. The first hospital denied admission the driver took my body with him but the old lady refused to leave me even when the driver tried to dump my body in a remote vacant lot. She pleaded with the driver to take me to a hospital. He brought me to a government hospital and was admitted at the Emergency Room.

I was being wheeled in when I came to be, gasping for air. I was giving immediate aid and underwent a full body scan (x-rays) for fractured bones. I don't know how but the doctors think it was a miracle that based on the story of the old lady I survived that kind of vehicular accident without fatal damage, brain, body/bones. As to the driver, he lied about his identity and abandoned me. The Old lady who was there with me told the whole story to the investigator about what happened.

My husband was informed about the accident and came to the hospital but the driver had already escaped with the jeep. I was at the intensive care unit.  Only when she saw my husband, did she leave. However, I never got to know the identity of this mysterious old lady who stood by my side and protected me from whatever evil plans the driver may have had in his evil mind to get rid of me and evade his responsibility.

I was bedridden for a month and during those days, some things started to change in me - emotionally and mentally speaking. I used to be afraid of losing someone I love, my husband - I began to be assertive. And when before I was a very passive wife I began to be visible. I cannot say I can tell the future but I realized I became an Angel of Doom. Death becomes apparent and I could sense if it is near and when I feel its presence, I always pray to God that it passes over the people I love. Signs and symbols of Death come to my eyes a day or two before it comes and I get the confirmation first hand when it has taken its victim. After the accident my husband started to brand me as Satanist, something I am not - heaven forbid for I believe and worship God. However, my sister said I have a cursed tongue that could put a curse upon someone who deserved it but when I do, I receive a dose of my own penalty. My mom forbids me to say a final word against anyone after what was a couple of incidents. The good side is that, when you asked me to pray for you to have a child - I would pray to God for the woman to bear a child. However the downside of this? Like a forked tongue there is a consequence and always a final outcome - the woman shall be bedridden while conceiving. She shall give birth only through c'sarian and the child will always be a baby boy.

I came to know about this gift only after a woman from a school asked to help her pray for a child because she is married late and wanted a child. I told her a few months from now she will conceive and she will have twins. But she refused and said she only wanted one child. I told her she will have twins but because she wanted only one, the other child will die. A year after, we met again and she told me what happened when she gave birth.

Another lady who was a tenant in one of my mother's business spaces approached me because she had heard about this gift of mine and she wanted to have a baby boy. I looked at her and told her that if I do pray for her to get pregnant, she will be bedridden and her business will be affected. She laughed at me and said that won't happen. Nevertheless I prayed and after a few months she became pregnant and true to my conditions she started to have hard days conceiving. Eventually she had to close her shop because she could no longer attend to the rigors of her boutique because her husband had a job of his own. A year later, I learned she had a baby boy and went under the knife.

Meanwhile then another lady from the same school asked me to pray for her which I did but a month later she retracted her request saying she had a new job offer and this will be affected should a baby come around. I didn't say anything but two months later she suffered a miscarriage. Her friends said she didn't know she was pregnant when it happened. I gave a last word for her that because she was the one who rejected the lost child it would take a long time before she ever bore a child again until she repented her denial of the child's presence in her womb. After the incident, I refrained from offering prayers for any woman.

During those years of praying for others, I never got another child except that of my only child - a boy who I conceived while I was bedridden and gave birth through c'sarean section. These were my personal conditions which somehow were reflected to all the women I prayed for. My neighbor, Perla a dentist likewise was praying to have a baby and she mentioned this to me half joking to please pray for her. We were standing in front of her clinic and I prayed for her and she said others were praying for her too. I told her that her child would be a boy and she will bare him under the knife! Months later, she did have a baby boy and she did have an operation. A few years later, I asked her if she wants another child and she said no, not in the near future, and now the boy is seven years old and still an only child.

After a couple more women, I lay low for a while and no longer entertain women requesting prayers. During 2005, a parent of a student became my friend, Marianne. She would always half-jokingly ask me to pray for her to have a baby boy because she already has a six year old girl. On the side her sister, Tessa likewise asked me to pray for her too. Seeing how serious they were I did. After a few months, they told me they were both pregnant. I was visiting Marianne and Tessa was there when we talked about the babies in their wombs. I told Marianne the child is a boy and that Tessa has twins. Tessa reacted and said she didn't want twins. I told her if she will deny the babies, they will die inside her. She was offended but didn't take me seriously. A week after Marianne told me that Tessa was angry at me and did not wish to see me ever again. I asked why? She broke the news. Tessa lost the baby the following day and was rushed to the hospital. To make the story short? Marianne delivered a baby boy by c'sarean section. She was not pleased that she had to go under the knife. After Marianne and Tessa, I don't want to have anything to do with praying for women to have babies.

As an Angel of Doom, I did it twice and no longer wanted to think about this gift. My sister bought a van sometime in the 1990's, the latest model of L-200. It was barely a year old when Pinky's friend needed a bigger car so she borrowed the van and as an assurance, the female friend left to Pinky her car. Unfortunately, the hired driver of this woman had another agenda for the van. He car-napped the van and disappeared. Meanwhile my sister didn't know about the disappearance of the van and returned the car asking the woman to give back the van. But as soon as the car was returned the lady also disappeared without a trace. My sister reported the incident and the Anti-Car-napping Unit put up an alarm for her lost van. I learned about it quite late.  When she was already desperate and so I asked her, ''What do you want to happen to your van? Do you want the driver to die? Or just for the van to meet an accident without so much hurt for the driver?'' She chose the latter and after two weeks, a policeman came to her house to inform her that her van met a vehicular accident somewhere in Cebu, a City in the Visayas. (We are in the main island Luzon, and Visaya is the second island, third is Mindanao.) The van was a total wreck after the driver hit a concrete wall, why and how no one could explain. But the driver was safe and was claiming damages from the insurance company. The good side of the story? My sister didn't stop paying the insurance policy of her van despite the disappearance for almost three months or more. The insurance company looked for the person who was holding the policy and was paying for the monthly dues. That was the key how they traced the real owner of the van.

But most of all, I never knew I would end up teaching Mathematics and Science because I never planned to become a teacher. I am a Chemical Engineering graduate who worked in the field as a Shift Chemical Engineer. However, after the accident I suddenly found myself totally fascinated by numbers in a different way and Science too. I started to search for the connection between Science and the Bible and found concrete evidence that Science and the Bible are bonded together if only you know how to look and analyze.

I was not even like this in the past before the accident.

I lost my husband and yet I felt no hurt.

And people started to die - with omens for me to see.

My cousin and his father died and then two more of his sons died.

My father died and I felt no pain just a longing he had stayed longer.

Then on December 23, 2005, my brother died. His death came as a surprise to us because it was like July he was still partying with his wife. Then in October he complain of stomach ache and by November, he was very ill. He recovered early December but he said, 'My dead father came to visit the other day and he wants to take me with him.' Three days after that he became totally ill. The doctors advised us to let go but my mom didn't want to let go and asked for last resorts, like blood transfusions, and more, but finally my brother called out to 'Jesus please don't leave me,' and he pulled his last breath. That night I became very ill too and almost died again if not for the timely arrival of my son because I was at home alone and vomiting and dehydrating. Today I just came from the hospital; I experienced an initial onset of a locked jaw. My stairs were being repaired when I stepped on a rusty nail embedded between the floor slats and penetrated deeply causing blood to spurt out. I was treated with antibiotics for seven days but only late this afternoon did I get shots. My sister said I was lucky enough to know the signs what she didn't know; that I had been receiving signs and my father and uncle sent me chills last New Year's Day.

One more thing - I hardly sleep. Unlike before, my husband said I would fall asleep as soon as my back hits the bed or even the chair. After the accident I hardly sleep - but I don't feel any fatigue nor dizziness. And my hearing became sharp like I could hear people talk even when they whisper. I could hear a knock or a rap even when I am at the third floor of the house. Even before a person knocks, I can already sense the presence. But I am trying to tone this down - I am now very sensitive to sounds. In the dark, I could sense when something is before my eyes. Like when a branch almost hit my eyes in a pitch-black night; or when my sister thought I am going to hit my face on a protruding metal because I was side blinded by a side mirror of a van. Lastly, the people around me who have observed me up close said, 'SHE DON'T KNOW HOW TO LOVE ANYMORE.' 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 'February, 1986'  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Other i COULD NOT TELL BECAUSE ACCORDING TO THE WITNESSES IWAS HIT BY THE SAME JEEP TWICE AND THE THIRD TIME THE JEEP TRIED TO RUN ME OVER. Before I was brought to the hospital they said I am dead. I was transferred from one hospital to another. The first hospi  Run over several times by a jeep.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   I was not conscious, I came to see myself sprawled on the ground while floating I was only seeing myself from afar and during that time I heard that Voice giving commands and then I tried to say the same words from afar.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was not conscious, I came to see myself sprawled on the ground while floating I was only seeing myself from afar and during that time I heard that Voice giving commands and then I tried to say the same words from afar.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     I look at the mirror and I can see a person other than me staring back at me. One woman I saw in the mirror one night was a horrible looking person with many warts all over her face.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Like I said, when I was in a pitch-black place I would just stop suddenly like my eyes could see something and I would then slowly reach in front of my face like I am blocking something and then I would slowly recognize what is in front of my eyes. I no longer wear eyeglasses and my grades (eye glass) have lowered from 350 to 175. Likewise I remember the 9/11 attack minutes before the tower collapsed I saw the first tower shake like I was standing close to it and I started to scream that it is going to go down, which startled my nieces watching the burning towers still intact. They looked at me and as they turned to face the TV the tower starts to crumble. My mom looked at me horrified but couldn't say anything. If you would review the camera footages, it is not visible from CNN's film, the tremor minutes before it collapsed. Regarding clarity, I could see a tiny object like I am using a magnifying glass when I switch my eyes to another angle of eye level. But there are moments my eyes refuse to see objects no matter how close. However, I can find missing objects when I am not forced to look for it. Unexpectedly the location will spill out of my tongue, unexpectedly. When I put a very, very, very small scripture or writing, which normally one could not read without a magnifying glass, my eyes would be able to see it, read it, if I press the paper close to my open eyes and move it away from my eyes. The letter writing suddenly becomes bigger and the ink bolder. My sister asked me how I do it? I simply pressed the paper closer to her eyes to see if she could read after that, but no, I cannot explain.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear even the slightest whisper and could sense someone coming no matter how softly they try to walk. I could hear a door knock from the ground floor to the third floor.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     I was hovering on top like floating and watching the whole events unfolding before me - with a silver cord attached to my middle section of the body going down to the head level of my physical body - I don't know why.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I did not see but I heard this Loud VOICE giving commands - telling these others unseen to move my body and I was also trying to say the same thing from afar.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Where I am floating was like an open sky with lights.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place     i always see these two particular gardens that is fully covered with flowers. One of the garden seems to be going downhill while the other one is a wide open garden and there was that particular pool of water and then this particular waterfalls. I saw this waterfalls and here I almost drown after my son jumped into the water and I thought he would drown so i jumped and tried to pushed him sideways until he could take hold of the edge but I  miscalculated the currents of the water but somehow i managed to swim and saw my son standing at the side edge of the waterfalls.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Floating in midair I felt detached from myself and yet somehow I don't want to leave. I felt a deep concern to my body being down there but not threatened.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     Yes, I learned that one should not be afraid of death and that the only reason a person is afraid to die is because of the persons they will leave behind. Their uncertainties as to future conditions for their beloved. I learned that the joy of living is not because of just one person for personal reason but for a lot more and that to live life without demands but rather with understanding with people - how they don't know that indeed there is life after. I learned to live a life not dependent on my husband and making him my world but rather living life like this is the most important gift of God and yes life after death is more important but we must live our life here while we can for the good of others.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From the world's future        There are instances I know it will happen but I try to ignore the warnings and eventually I blame myself for not giving importance to that sense of occurrence.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I now believe that there is life after death.  I believe that man should not make man made images and address these as their God for how can man not understand the simple fact that, 'Man cannot create something out of his own hands and regard this OBJECT as his God when it came to be out of his own creation!!' GOD created man and not the other way around. Ask yourself, 'DID YOU CREATE YOUR OWN GOD?' then you must be more powerful than these graven images you men have carved and called gods.  

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Born Again Christian  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I now believe that there is life after death.  I believe that man should not make man made images and address these as their God for how can man not understand the simple fact that, 'Man cannot create something out of his own hands and regard this OBJECT as his God when it came to be out of his own creation!!' GOD created man and not the other way around. Ask yourself, 'DID YOU CREATE YOUR OWN GOD?' then you must be more powerful than these graven images you men have carved and called gods.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I read the Bible and through the passages I saw Science float like hidden balloons. When I read the passage about the visions of prophets. I realized that if you would translate it into drawing literally then you would know that things we now see were already here long before us.

  Example: The wheel of an airplane.

  Example: There was a vision where a flying ship appeared and the description of its wheels were like these - a wheel within a wheel perpendicular to each other. It is likened to a wheel of a bump car.

  Example: The earth is round.

  Example: That cancer was already here even before we know it.

  Example: Hybrid-ing is not good.

  Example: Cloning is a work of God but he did it because of Creation.

  Example: That when Jesus stepped into the water and did not sink and when Peter did the same - I realized that there is a kind of energy we can emit if only we know how, to repel us from any physical contact with liquid medium or rather an energy web created cushioning Jesus from sinking. Peter managed to generate this energy because he took it from his Faith to Jesus. Somehow, this force of energy could make a human being capable of something beyond human capacity. If we could float while swimming then this same principle of buoyancy could apply too. But to find the point of balance to achieve this perhaps we could learn to tame our own energy level as we humans are one big walking ' Batteries'. My purpose to reach out to the poor people and teach them academically and to the older people and skeptics too about some things.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes My marriage collapsed but I am not sorry about it.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     The gift to pray for a barren woman to become pregnant. The ability to look at a person's face and say something I didn't know about him/her first hand that would shake her being - secrets included. This only happens without meaning to disclose, it just happens.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes! When I am saved by the command of the powerful Voice.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Three months after. They were amazed and felt I was lucky to have come back after that accident. They were in many ways influenced because I have used my experience to help people see the truth about Life and Death and their connection to God.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I felt awed and confused because I finally realized there is indeed something to look forward to when you die but also something to worry about because of many things I might have left behind.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I believe it is true because I saw the truth of God's power in every living thing. Every time I talked about the experience with the people who witnessed the events reaffirms what I have seen and felt many years ago. My present life made me realize that indeed the TRUTH, THE REALITY, of what happened shall always linger and remind of how short life is. At the same time makes me value life as it passed me to see how true the whole experience was. I always share the experience with others that is how real it is to me.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am still having varied experiences and feel like I am growing inside out.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Not all NDErs went through a tunnel perhaps you could ask how different it is to be embraced by the light from passing through the lights?     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1araceli_s_nde.html