{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1anthony_w_fde.html","mytitle":"Anthony W FDE 21602","mylang":"de"}
          	        Anthony W FDE 21602  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Anthony W FDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification FDE  						1132  Anthony W FDE  21602  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was traveling down a city street in a compact rent-a-car at about 40 mph when my car blew a tire and the vehicle I was in spun out and ended up on the other side of the road facing the wrong direction.  As my vehicle came to rest, a semi-truck was approaching me.  The truck was in another lane of a two-lane street and proceeded to slam on the brakes.  While sitting there in the rental car I actually saw things and people that occurred in my life flash before me.  It seemed like years of events and people I loved the most all appear before my eyes in a matter of 10 to 20 seconds.  Right after the flashes, I saw the semi pass right in front of me and miss my vehicle by a matter of inches; at that point, I realized that had he struck me that I would have probably died.

This event was unlike anything I had ever experienced in life.  I heard of things like this happening to people, but to have actually experienced it just further reinforced my belief that there is a higher power, whether it is God or any other name one might use.  I just happen to believe it is God.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    don't remember exactly

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death .  I was inches away from being hit head-on by a semi-truck.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Normal

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   It felt like time was standing still for those 10 to 20 seconds.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Actually, it was like complete silence for a moment and then the screeching of the semi-truck tires as he passed me.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Void

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Very intense and focussed

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      At first, I was very nervous but then I felt everything would be OK.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     Just small incidences of predictability.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   Lutheran

What is your religion now?      Liberal   lutheran

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     My belief in God remained strong if not stronger at the time.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Best part was having my faith reinforced by the event and worst being that I realized that I could have died.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Hard to say, I think that they just took it as something that occurred.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      It remains clear in my mind as if it happened.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      I can't think of anything at the moment.  I feel that this covers most if not all the questions pertaining to my experience.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1anthony_w_fde.html