{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1anthony_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Anthony C NDE 2202","mylang":"de"}
          	        Anthony C NDE 2202  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Anthony C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						617  Anthony C NDE  2202  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

My family went to a lake for the day when I was seven which was a common thing that we did during the summer in New Jersey. I had an older brother and sisters who knew how to swim but my twin brother and I did not. We were swimming in the kids section, when my older brother and sisters decided they wanted to swim to one of the square docks that sat in the middle of the lake and told my twin brother and me that we couldn't go. I went back to the beach to ask my mother to take me out to the dock, of course she said no.

Another small boat dock came out from the beach and separated the swimming area from the non-swimming area. When I returned to the water I decided to jump in from the boat dock but for some reason I jumped into the water on the non-swimming side that I didn't realize was deeper. I tried to swim back to the dock but I was panicking and couldn't. I struggled for a while but no one on the beach seemed to notice, I think everyone just assumed I was playing around.

After a few minutes of struggle I went under, I don't know how long I was under but I remember giving up. Then I was outside my body looking at myself under water and then I rose above the water and I could see all around me 360 degrees. Above me, I sensed a very bright light above me but it was not the sun, it was omnipresent and brighter but not painfully bright. Even though I was outside I felt like there was no top, no sky no limit. Also, I was very calm, my panic and fear were gone. I was looking down on the water were I had gone under, I felt a little like a balloon floating up. By this time, some people on the beach noticed I had gone under the water and hadn't come up and there was a commotion on the beach. A tall man with a beard and red shorts was the first to act and ran out onto the dock, jumped into the water and pulled me up. Another man and my father followed him. I could see him holding me in his arms and then WHAM! I was back in my body and I started crying.

Once I had gotten back to the beach, calmed down I tried to tell my mom that I was able to see them and that I watched the man jump in, and save me and she said that was impossible because I was underwater. I remember wanting to tell her what I saw but I couldn't describe it. I was too young and I just didn't have the words.

I never talked about it again until I was in college and I remembered it during a show on near death experiences on TV. I was like, hay that happened to me! I told my girlfriend at the time and read a book about it but I was still confused. My experience was much shorter and I made no contact with other beings, I still wonder what it means.

I think I kept it suppressed all that time because I felt like it could not have really happened it didn't fit reality also my mom told me it was impossible. But, it was always in the back of my mind especially when I would talk to friends that didn't believe in anything after death, I always felt like I knew something they didn't. This out of body experience is the clearest memory I have from that age. It probably lasted no more than thirty seconds but it was so sharp and real. By comparison, my other memories from that age are shadowy and foggy.

I still will only talk about it to friends I trust, I think I just don't want to deal with people who would question the experience. Plus I am still working out what it means to me.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 July-August, 1973  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Drowning.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It felt clearer and more real.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the out of body experience.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   I guess yes, I was floating and the world seemed so much more open above me was bigger even though I was outside.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see all around me, 360 degrees.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I think I just notice it less because the visual experience was so profound.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calm, peace, lack of fear.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I was too young to have strong dogmatic beliefs, but my family was catholic and I remember I wanted to become a priest when I grew up after this experience.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I was too young to have strong dogmatic beliefs, but my family was catholic and I remember I wanted to become a priest when I grew up after this experience.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The experience was so fast and I was so young but I still remember a sense of return and that living was part of an education.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I was very young and I tried to tell my mother that I could see the people trying to rescue me but she kept saying that was impossible because I was underwater.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I never really talked about it until I was much older, I told a girlfriend in college, my twin brother, my ex-wife and only very close friends since. I still will only talk about it to friends I trust. I am not sure how it affected the people I told, they were all pretty open to life after death and I think it just reaffirmed their beliefs.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     My problem was I was too young to explain it, and when I did my mom said I must be mistaken. But it was so real so I kept it to myself and then forgot until it reemerged while watching a show on near death experiences.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was real, it happened and that's the only way I can explain it.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No           				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1anthony_c_nde.html