{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1annie_v_nde.html","mytitle":"Annie V NDE 7032","mylang":"de"}
          	        Annie V NDE 7032  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Annie V NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3541 Annie V NDE 7032  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was fifteen years old and took several medications at the same time with the intention of committing suicide. According to what the doctor and my mother reported, I was ‘clinically dead’ for five minutes. HERE is what I saw: I floated in a dark tunnel that seemed alive with circles and a pale-bluish fog. I had never felt so good and so happy, filled with love and peace.  Above all, I had the sense that I possessed knowledge about everything. In the distance there was a white light; it was very bright, but it didn't hurt my eyes. Then I noticed that to the left of the light, and illuminated by it, there were several people waving to me in a happy, welcoming way! Suddenly, I felt myself being sucked back. 

I opened my eyes and there was my mother, sitting at the side of my hospital bed. I adore my mother but I was nevertheless angry to be back. When my best friend came to visit me, I told her what I had seen: but of course, I let her believe it was a dream so that she wouldn't think I was nuts. 

Fast forward to 1976: A friend of mine (who was stationed in Germany), came to see me. By that time, I was married and had had my first baby. She greeted me and suddenly she held out a little red book, saying, ‘My God, Annie you have to read this! I was thinking of you the whole time I was reading it!’ It was Raymond Moody's book ‘Life After Life.’  She made me read some passages from it and I had tears in the eyes. About my experience, I'm sure that I have forgotten some of the details; for example, I have only fleeting memories of having had very clear vision, exceptional hearing, my sense of smell being much more acute and also that there was especially pleasing music. 

At first, I was sure about what I remembered, but down here, as time goes by, one forgets and gets confused. I don't feel that I know for sure anymore what it was like. But I am sure about one thing: when I woke up I knew what a stupid thing I had done, and I never tried it again. NEVER COMMIT SUICIDE. YOU MUST WAIT UNTIL IT'S THE RIGHT TIME FOR YOU TO DIE. WE ARE ONLY HERE FOR A SHORT WHILE. I'm no longer afraid of dying, although I am a little afraid of suffering. But my concern, above all, is that when I die, my loved ones down here will not be able to see me (just my body) and may think I have left them forever. If only those that I love, would believe me when I tell them that we will see each other again over there. Then I wouldn't have any fear connected with death. But, I can't tell people they have to believe what I tell them about my NDE; because in religions there is dogma you have to believe. There's no point in an individual trying to insist that other people believe things that they haven't seen for themselves. This is normal: they are the same as I am. Like everyone else, I only believe what I see.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1971

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Suicide attempt.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I attempted suicide.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Vision, hearing and smell are much more acute than they are here.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       In the tunnel.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Everything was happening very fast.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was stronger.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard well.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     The tunnel was big, dark-grey in color, with a bluish fog and circles; it seemed to be alive and to be breathing.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     It seems to me that those beings could have been my grandparents whom I had never known.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A non-blinding, but very bright, white light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt joy, well-being and love.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I did feel that I possessed knowledge of everything, but now I can no longer say that I know for sure whether I did or not.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Atheist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I had no religious beliefs with which to begin.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Not important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Atheist   a l école primaire mes parents mon mis en religion je ne mi intéressé pas jamais a l église n y a la messe

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   There were beings close to the light; they were bright. They waved to me and I felt that they were happy to be welcoming me. I seemed to know them, but they were too far away, so that I couldn't distinguish them. Then I was sucked back.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       I am uncertain if God exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     Moderate changes in my life. I don't judge people. I try to understand them. I don't worry about the superfluous, about futilities, things I can't change. I look at people and see their human misery, I feel their suffering.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I became calmer; I started listening to people more.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   All was going much faster: time no longer exists in an NDE.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   depuis cette expérience mon comportement a changé ma façon de voire les choses je ne me tracasse plus pour des superflus

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Experiences of déjà vu.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        After this experience, my behavior and my way of looking at things changed. I don't worry any more about the superfluous aspects of life.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    When my best friend visited me at the hospital, she listened as if I were telling her a dream. When I told my husband, he laughed.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was not like a dream. A dream will soon be forgotten, but not this experience.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No thank you, this is, just the way it is; it was helpful. It did me good to be able to confide my experience.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1annie_v_nde.html