{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1annie_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Annie Probable NDE 5087","mylang":"de"}
          	        Annie Probable NDE 5087  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Annie Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2637 Annie Probable NDE 5087  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in so much pain. I stopped hearing people around me and everything started to blur in a slow motion. I knew at that stage that I had to let it go, I didn't want to fight anymore. I remember telling myself that I could leave and it was okay. I said goodbye to my three kids and told them I will always love them. I knew they felt my love and they had heard me, as if we were linked telepathically for a moment.

I remember darkness and something similar to silence. It felt like everything stopped. A sensation I cannot describe with words really. If I had to refer to my state at the time in a mathematical point of view, I would say I was in the state of zero. It didn't last very long and I regained some form of emotions and feelings by being surrounded by seven sort of colored energies. My body was gone; I was a concentration of those colors/energies. At the time, I felt complete. I had reached the perfection in my being - not as a human being but as a part of a great source of energy. I recovered the ultimate knowledge by becoming that energy again. It was fulfilling and intense.

After what felt like an eternity, I progressively felt heavier. I realized I had to go back. At the time, I felt like I had a choice to make. Going back to start or finish something in my human body. I knew through the seven energies/colors that I would have to sacrifice something to go back. 

The return was violent, dark and extremely painful physically and emotionally. I woke up on life support and felt my body crashing on me. I opened my eyes, and I cried. I cried because I knew I would not feel what I felt until I die again. I was conscious that something was missing in my body; I thought I had lost my legs. The surgeon explained to me later they had to perform an emergency hysterectomy. The blood transfusion saved me but I stayed on life support for eighteen hours. During that time, they kept putting my ten-day-old baby on my breast to feed. I believe my baby made me come back.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  20/04/2010

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Post surgery internal bleeding  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I had an internal bleeding after a minor surgery. I lost three liters of blood and my body went into shock.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I encountered those seven energies/colors.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I encountered those seven energies/colors.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I was clearly not in the 'world' I know - in another dimension maybe.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision also reached its full potential - I could see 'inside and outside', through and the field of my vision was so much wider. It was not clear and bright. It was deep and wide. The seven colors were soft but I could feel what I could see - I know it sounds strange - but all my senses were linked, they formed a unity, so they would work better.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was no sound but soft vibrations, low pitch.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I don't know if I could qualify those energies/colors as other beings as I felt we were parts of each other. I didn't know those energies/colors initially. What has been communicated to me is that I am made of those energies/colors. With the knowledge of those energies/colors we could reach our full potential. Using every single part of our brain to its full potential, auto regulating our system - adapt better to the outside environment. In a way, make our body and mind stronger.

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     the environment that surrounded me was very dark but I felt lift like I was in the heart of something similar to a univers...

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I do not recall leaving my physical body. I just remember going through the experience without it. I also remember the ultimate pain by waking up in it.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I do not fear death anymore as I do believe our body is just an envelope. I believe we as human beings only use very little of our potential. Feeling that I am part of something so much bigger it made me more humble. Also, I do believe that we choose to die or to live at the critical moment.  Today I feel a strong connection to any life form in general and their process of evolution and adaptation. I'm more sensitive to my environment emotionally, but also physically.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     When I woke up I knew that something had been taken from my body during my journey. It appeared that the surgeon had to take my uterus out.  I have since tried very hard to avoid any thoughts that may become future events.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   None

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Every night, before I fell asleep, I meditate and travel inside my body and visualize my regeneration (physical and mental). I believe I can have a better control of my body and thoughts. I am not religious and still don't believe in a super power - I just believe in life and feel closer to the movement of the universes.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   None

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Every night, before I fell asleep, I meditate and travel inside my body and visualize my regeneration (physical and mental). I believe I can have a better control of my body and thoughts. I am not religious and still don't believe in a super power - I just believe in life and feel closer to the movement of the universes.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   We are part of something bigger. It is linked to the process of life. As I explained earlier, I accessed an amazing amount of knowledge but little is left of it today, it's just a sensation that we could use our vital energy in a much more powerful way.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I'm much more opened mind.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It is very hard to describe something you have never experienced before. As I cannot compare it to anything I know, I cannot use the right vocabulary to define the emotions and the intensity of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I always thought there was nothing after death, in a spiritual kind of way. Today, I have doubt that maybe there is something else. But if what I experience is that something else, then it is nothing like we can imagine.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It took me a few months to be able to talk about it. I was a bit confused about what happened to me in the first place. I happened to have a few very vivid dreams of my experience and I decided to talk to my partner. He thought it was maybe all the morphine the doctors gave me. But it has been nearly two years now and I keep talking about it and I think he started wondering if my journey could be more than just my imagination.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I read about people going through a tunnel and see a bright light. I had a completely different experience as far as I am concerned. I am not even sure I left my body to go in another place - I still don't know if it was real.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I could still feel it inside me. I couldn't bear being back to life.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     I don't know what to think about it today because nobody has been able to give me an answer to my questions: What happened? Can you explain in a rational scientific way why I felt that way? Did my unconscious play a trick on me?

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Dreams, but they are never as intense.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It was the most fulfilling thing that ever happened in my life and I miss it very much.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1annie_probable_nde.html