{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1annie_p_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Annie P Probable NDE 6453","mylang":"de"}
          	        Annie P Probable NDE 6453  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Annie P Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3168 Annie P Probable NDE 6453  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was driving down the road on the way to study for an anatomy final, when a woman in another car fell asleep at the wheel and crashed into my car. 

Right away, I rose up above the accident, where I saw an angelic man floating above me.  He said, ‘Anlee, come with me now, because you have to go to school here for a while.’ When he became aware of my concern about my finals, he said, ‘But don't worry, soon you will return to complete your chiropractic education.’ We ascended into a wide space of totally accepting Love. It felt completely different from anything I had known during my life.  Arriving there was not at all like merely traveling from one physical location to another. I asked, ‘Is this what heaven is like?’  He quickly answered, ‘Yes!’ and then his name was transferred to my mind; he was Archangel Mich'l. He transferred me through a type of ‘tunnel,’ which is how people usually describe it, that I experienced as being carried by an intense transitional energy into a dimension of refined density. 

There I was greeted and held by Christ's Pure Love/Light, and He transferred me to the front steps of the school in Nirvana. The walls, floors, ceilings, and furnishings, everything involved was of vibrant colors, hues and intensities that I had never seen on Earth. I wound up in a room where I remember studying a system of quantum physics and geometric shapes which would allow us to evolve an ability to quickly attract, and be filled with, only one energy that of: Light.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  March 1981

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Direct head injury    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   A car crash. They had to cut me out of the car.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  I was traveling on the road to study for an anatomy final, when a woman fell asleep and crashed into my car. Right away, I rose above the accident where I saw an angelic man floating above me. He said ‘Anlee, you have to attend a school here before you can go back.’  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Sitting in the classroom, I felt no strain in retaining new information. It was as if all the information was ‘downloaded’ into me without effort. Another way I learned was by leaning over a book while ‘absorbing’ the information in it.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       In the school I attended in Nirvana.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time didn't exist.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I had been warned that there would be an accident, so I was prepared, but was not aware of the exact timing until a couple weeks before it happened.  At that time, I was shown not only what the accident would look like in the physical world, but I could also see beyond the physical, into a different density, where I also saw angels glowing with energy.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't remember anything significant.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was more like swirling energy; I was not alone; I was held.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Jesus and Mother Mary.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I always saw the Light as life, in which there were atoms full of Love bounding around.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The front steps of a school in Nirvana.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Concern about not finishing my finals!

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Information was ‘floating in the air’, accessible for our instantaneous learning.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     We watched on ‘monitors,’ the effects on people of having their limited patterns of holographic memory lifted from them and immediately replaced by the knowing-energy of Light.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths   Spiritual rather than religious. Unity was closest, but felt there was something broader than normally accepted on Earth.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   Knowing we're in a frequency of abundant love, that we have an ability to attract and live Love on Earth

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I was totally accepting the information I received. There wasn't anything to question if it was accurate. The manner of how the information was delivered "fit" with exact efficiency.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I started being able to watch myself and see how my personality was affecting others. I came to understand that there were many things I could do to improve myself.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   Immediately I rose up above the accident, where I saw an angelic man floating above me.  He said, ‘Anlee, you have to go to school here now.’  When he became aware of my concern about my finals, he said, ‘But don't worry, soon you will return to complete your education (at the chiropractic college.)’ We ascended into a wide space of totally accepting Love. It felt completely different from what I had known during my life.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   Jesus and Mother Mary

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I know Mother Mary from my past life as one of the many aspects (incarnated on Earth) of Mary Magdalene.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     We are a collective Soul Group experiencing balancing duality.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     We all carry Sources Light within us. In the manner of how this Light communicates is through our nervous system (for one example), through the axon fiber when positive and negative properties flip during a synapse.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     We are balancing duality. This is the last time we are involved in reincarnation. Divine Grace is our gift to evolve out of forgetting our Source's Light/Love.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     So much information, and it was not just written words.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     Only that we are here to balance our duality in our soul contracts.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Purest form of Love has no conditions, we are all accepted all the time, without reservation.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes My marriage failed, and I find it difficult to communicate with people and make a lasting connection.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   That has been the problem with my book! It's difficult to convey an ‘etheric’ experience while restricted to words.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I retained the important Earthly classes in Chiropractic college (adjusting, orthopedic and neurological checks, pathology, etc.), but irrelevant classes (microbiology, etc.) was not retained.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can see energies that hold a person back (‘energy leaches’ that are a result of their akashic records.) [Editor’s note: Akashic records are a compendium of mystical knowledge.]  They appear to me in the form of holographic images or just energy patterns.  These have been in the images of people from past lives.   I have been able to see orbs and loving entities. I also saw two UFO's: one was at Trout Lake, where I also saw an ET, and the other was near my house along the Columbia River.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        That I am Loved. We have the ability to attract Love through the influence of our magnetic force by way of our nervous system. The purest form of Love has no conditions. We are all accepted without reservation all the time. There was much information. It was conveyed by more than just words.  We all carry ‘Source Light’ within us. The way this Light carries information is through our nervous systems, as, for example, through the axon fiber when positive and negative properties flip during their passage through a synapse. I knew Mother Mary from my past life as one of the many aspects (incarnated on Earth) of Mary Magdalene.  We are a collective ‘Soul Group’ experiencing the balancing of duality.  We are here to balance our duality in our ‘soul contracts.’

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    In college. Few people were open to it, and one jealous and insecure person said she ‘proved’ I was wrong through some concern she had over her son. And even though nothing was ever proven about that, she continued to speak ill of my abilities.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I started to remember it about eight months later while traveling along the freeway. I then sought counseling with the dean of student affairs, and this was the only help with it that I have gotten.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It's not something I could make up. My abilities that I have described here could not have been learned in a normal college.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I went to the 2012 IANDS conference in Scottsdale, AZ. Frederic D, whose NDE exposed him to healing with music and private consultations, was present. I was one of the four volunteers who received his channeled healing when he placed his hands on our shoulders. Our directions were to be as open as possible, without trying to direct our healing. He gave us visual aids to keep our minds off the healing ‘needs’ that I repeated through his music. When it was done, I didn't remember getting off the stage, but wound up in a group hug. One woman kept staring at me; with love in my own eyes, I pointed my finger at her forehead and said, ‘I remember you!’ Love and Light rushed into her as she started to cry.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Although some of the information was new to me, I was totally accepting of all that I received. I felt no questions about whether it was accurate or not. The way that the information was delivered to me ‘fit’ exactly and efficiently with my understanding.  I retained the important Earthly classes in chiropractic college (adjusting, orthopedic and neurological checks, pathology), but information from irrelevant classes (microbiology) was not retained. You can contact me for more information or give me a phone call (I'll see the missed messages, but there isn't any recording capability available yet with my new phone.)      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1annie_p_probable_nde.html