{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1annie_nde.html","mytitle":"Annie NDE 404","mylang":"de"}
          	        Annie NDE 404  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  				    				  				  				  					  						  					  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  								Layouts  								  					  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				   				  				  					  						  							  						  								  									  										 Near Death Experience  									  									  										   									  									  										 skype.inthefuture  									  								  						    							  							  								  									  									                                                                              									  									  									  									  									    								  							  						  					  				  				  				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							  							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  			    			      			      			        			        Annie NDE  			          			          			          Home  			          Classification NDE  			          1299 Annie NDE 404  		              		            		          			    			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I don't know how. This is very difficult. How does one describe the indescribable? Okay, I'll start with a part of the poetry I put in the book. It was like a meeting day with the great intelligence - the dew on the grass, the sky at daybreak, the enlightened one. Great light which I became one with. Total and utter peace and serenity. Pure love - unconditional love, pure omnipotence, pure comparison, a sinless intelligence, knowing this intelligence was beyond what I was. It is something, which would take many lifetimes to achieve. Total rapture, a feeling of pure joy. Didn't want to leave it. I am part of this intelligence even though I know this intelligence is pure knowledge and sinless, yet I am a sinner. My body is not my soul. Felt my soul separate - sorry hard to describe. Soul has different mission and can communicate differently - bloody hard to explain. Sorry you ask too much. Too hard to describe and I know I have failed.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  July 1989

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness  Plus medical test as stated above which resulted in calamity.   Leaking spinal fluid following lumbar puncture to determine Multiple Sclerosis.  Was having severe MS attack at the time but was not sure of it, of course as doctors were unsure.  Lumbar puncture was to determine Multiple Sclerosis.  Bad leakage!  I was leaking spinal fluid. That will do it plus having a very severe multiple sclerosis attack. Lay in the bed for five weeks, didn't move, speechless apparently, dribbled, had to be fed with a spoon. Lost five weeks, that'll do it.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  It seemed perfectly normal and I wasn't worried about it. Just like slipping out of a pair of pajamas.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Unconscious but thought I was awake. Experience more real than sitting here typing.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No verbal communication. Communication just happened without effort. Didn't need a voice box. Just felt communication. Soul explained experience as 'for my sake' if I have to put it in words. I am not really the person 'I think' I am. It was that sort of feeling. The soul has a mission different to this dippy blonde. Oh heck, this is hard.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   YES, YES, YES, YES A THOUSAND TIMES YES. Not like a regular light bulb. Brilliant light. Literally the light of the world. White, white light. Everywhere. It is around me in front of me and behind me. I am with the light and the light is with me. I am part of the light. I can see the earth as a living organism. It is alive. Noting on this earth can describe the experience or come close to it.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     As described above - earth as a living organism - stupendous, miraculous - hard to describe.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Rapture, joy, bliss, total love. Oh, wonder! Nothing on earth like it.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I came to know the experience I underwent physically was for the sake of my soul. It sounds weird but that was the reason. Soul is not me but I am the soul - I know, it sounds weird. Everything is interlinked, alive and interdependent. Earth is a totally living organism like a cell. At one stage, I knew something extremely important but at a certain point, I lost it and became conscious. As if I knew it, I wouldn't come back. Near the point of totally knowing, I came back and was conscious.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     A book was opened in front of me which contained everything I had ever said, done, experienced - good and bad. It was like a record of my life. Even my thoughts! It was confronting. Yes, I learned that life was just a schoolroom, just a learning place. We are here to learn and better ourselves but not materially! We are souls with bodies, not bodies with souls. We are here to learn to walk in the shoes of the 'fisherman'. We all ultimately face our own 'crucifixion' and salvation. Nobody gets off this earth without the lesson. I do not judge people as I once did. I am considered a bit weird because of my experience. It changed friendships. It changed my marriage. I left on a personal journey for about six months about eleven years ago because of the effect of it. Hard for husband to understand at the time. I came back and later on, my husband became ill with a serious disease. We are now extremely close and totally bonded.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I had knowledge regarding people and future events e.g. I knew what marriages would break up and when, well into the future. I knew when someone who thought they weren't sick, was sick. I could feel pain in other people, emotional and physical - this was distressing and became unbearable for me, so much so that I ultimately asked to be 'let off' because of the pain. Others who had similar 'encounters' knew me - pure strangers. People would say, 'You know, don't you?' and other such things. It disturbed my family. I wasn't 'let off' for a while. I knew what people were thinking. I started to do writing automatically and driven to join speaking clubs to give certain speeches about the environment, health etc. The breakdown of communism known in advance. Started to become frightened of myself.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I felt crucified by my physical ordeal and in fact, my mother who had no idea what to make of my terrible health and recovery, called it a crucifixion. I had to come back for the sake of my soul. I had more work to do, part of that work involved my mother who passed away last year and that is another unusual story - my goodness.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Was Roman Catholic.  Am now more spiritual and less religious. Totally unprejudiced concerning all religions.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   I am all religions I believe.  But know they are all flawed.  I cannot describe in words why.  Sorry.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am of no specific religion. I believe in them all but all are flawed. Am more spiritual.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It is as if you are asking me the same question. It is impossible to say what makes it hard to communicate because there was no communication in words in the experience. It was total communion with the universe, sublime. Sorry words are too vague for the wonderful.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     As described above. Ability to feel people. I could feel their emotions. What they were thinking. Could feel another's pain - physical and emotional. This was hard and taxing. Could ask questions of the universe (for want of a better word) and get the answer immediately shot straight into my solar plexus with a thud. Could literally feel it in there. Was never wrong. I became afraid of this ability. As described, others who had had the same experience knew me immediately and sometimes we both frightened each other.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The light and the communication with the light was the best part. The worst part was coming back and trying to make sense of the world and the stupidity of people sometimes. People thinking I am odd.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Mostly they listened but I knew they thought I was a little 'spare'. Lost a few friends. I am mostly alone now. My husband believes me, as does my father-in-law. I was a real party animal but now we are just so close my husband and me. It is as if we are totally bonded through terrible health problems. Other than these people plus mother and mother-in-law (two women now deceased) everyone, other than others who had had it, thought I was loony.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       The experience didn't belong to this earth and we are bound by time and space and language. It's not your fault. No there are not any other questions for the totally unable to describe.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1annie_nde.html