{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1annie_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Annie G NDE 5423","mylang":"de"}
          	        Annie G NDE 5423  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Annie G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3210 Annie G NDE 5423  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Suddenly, I was in a tunnel that was illuminated by a strong blue light. It was pleasantly warm and I felt endless peace and love. I wasn't afraid because I heard my deceased grandmother call my name. I was curious and flew further into the tunnel. At a certain moment, I made the decision to make a right turn and go back. At that instant, I found myself back in my body with doctors inserting tubes into me. 

Sometime before this, I had seen myself lying on the operating table with people standing around me. Among them was my sister-in-law who was assisting in the operation. Later I could describe all that went on during the surgery and also the contents of the operating room. I also knew that in the operating room next to me, a lady had died. The doctors seemed a bit shocked when I mentioned this to them later.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  februari 1987

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   After the operation I could not, for some unknown reason, breath independently.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       In the tunnel - at the moment I decided to turn back.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard everything.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A sort of tunnel with a vivid warm blue light at the end.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     From the direction of the light.  My grandmother called my name but I could not see her, due to the sparkling of the light.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A strong blue light that gave off a pleasant warmth. It was so bright it was hard to look at, like the sun but more blue.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Comfort, peace. Absolutely no fear.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     That the boundless love a person (such as my grandmother) may have for me never ends.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   geen

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   geen

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have a sharper sense of the feelings of others, both positive and negative.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I sometimes dream of things that I can't quite place but that do eventually happen. Shortly after my NDE, I went to pick up my husband after work late in the evening. On the road, I passed two hitchhikers, but I had a feeling and didn't stop to give them a lift. The same night I had a dream that Jeanneke was dead. Jeanneke was the girl who worked at the cigarette store. I learned later that the two hitchhikers I had seen were her murderers.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, it was meaningful because I am no longer fearful of death.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    But I kept silent about it for a long time because I was afraid that If I talked about it, people might think I was just seeking attention.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     No one told me that the lady in the operating room next to mine had died and yet I knew. This should not have been possible.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I still know, after all these years, what happened then and in minute detail.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I wonder why people won't believe us? Why can't these experiences be intellectually acknowledged?      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1annie_g_nde.html