{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1annie_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Annie B NDE 4037","mylang":"de"}
          	        Annie B NDE 4037  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Annie B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1939 Annie B NDE 4037  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Suddenly I found myself at the end of a dark tube (I don't know how I got to this point). There was a very luminous, blue light, with a fuzzy look. I saw many people coming towards me. When they were quite close, I recognized my mother (deceased 1995) with my father (ditto 1972), my grandparents (1966 and 1971), my great-grandmother (1970) together with my great-grandfather, whom I never knew. All of them, and me too, were about thirty-five years old. All, and me too, were dressed in a blue tunic tied at the waist by a cord. There were also many other people that I had no time to recognize. They were all welcoming towards me. When mom came near me, she said, 'It's not your time to come here now; you still have things to do on earth. Go back and fight.' This was not the kind of language my mother used, previously.

Straight after this, I was sucked back into the tube through which I had arrived, and catapulted into a corner of my (hospital) room. I was there, dazed, in a fetal position, and I could see my body on a bed (with yellow sheets), with many people milling around me. A woman applied the defibrillator paddles and I was lifted up from the corner of my room and thrown back into my body.

I began to talk about this to my family as soon as I emerged from my foggy state. My husband has never been able to confirm to me whether I had defibrillation; it was only a year later that a doctor confirmed this to me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  21janvier1998

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I'd been knocked over by a car while crossing a wide street. I had serious cranial trauma: fracture of the temporal bone including the internal pars petrosa, temporal and intraventricular cerebral hematoma. Transfer to the neurosurgical unit of the University Hospital in Amiens (fifty-six miles), coma (twenty hours), respiratory and cardiac arrest, resuscitation by crash-cart.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was in the light facing my mother, and when I was in the corner of my room after I returned, before rejoining my body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I'm normally VERY near-sighted (twenty dioptries), but there I had no glasses, without them I can't see further than four inches. There, I saw the people coming towards me and back in my room I saw clearly what was going on over three yards away. My eyesight without corrective lenses is extremely weak, but there I had normal eyesight.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I came back through a cylindrical tube which opened in a corner of my room and catapulted me onto the floor. I have no memory of leaving my body.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     They came towards me from far away; they wanted to talk with me. In front, there were members of my family, whom I had known, apart from my great-grandfather. They all were the same age (me too), an age when I had not known them, for the most part (thirty-five years old). All were smiling at me, only my mother spoke to me.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I came into a white light and in the distance it was pink and gold, like a sunrise.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     C'étai un espace sans limites ,lumineux, blanchâtre mais à l'horizon c'était doré, rose. Le sol, ou ce qui servait de sol était comme un nuage.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Surprise, peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     After this accident, I have predicted events on several occasions.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     I was catholic, nothing has changed.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     I was catholic, nothing has changed.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I don't remember.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have put relationships of 'convenience' to one side.  I looked for, and found, people who at one time or another have meant something in my life.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     It has happened that I predict events.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    As soon as I woke up, I spoke about it. Reactions were varied: my husband thinks I went through a weird experience; my son says, 'You fell on your head!!!'

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had already heard about some people having been through this, but I did not believe in it, and looked for a rational explanation (I'm a math teacher, so very rational). That did not affect my experience, especially as I've always heard about the moment when people leave their body and are drawn toward 'somewhere else'. I, on the other hand, have no memory of leaving, only of returning.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I cannot explain this; I feel it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I still cannot explain it, I feel it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Even though I think 'Over there, it was lovely', something in me tells me that suicide is not to be contemplated.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1annie_b_nde.html