{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1annette_w_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Annette W Probable NDE 4699","mylang":"de"}
          	        Annette W Probable NDE 4699  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Annette W Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2379 Annette W Probable NDE 4699  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					The first thing that I remember is waking up in the car. I was lying on my right side across the back seat, I sat up, and my Uncle Jimmy was crouched down in the foot area (he was a volunteer fire fighter for that area and responded to the call). I was surprised to see him and asked him what he was doing there and what had happened. He told me that I had been in an accident, but was going to be fine.  He was holding my hand. I said, 'Oh, okay' and laid back on the seat.  

I remember clearly thinking, 'I am lying my face down on a bunch of broken glass and I don't even care. That is very strange.' I had noticed that everyone else was gone and I did not care about that either, then there was a loud grinding noise and sparks - uncle Jimmy said that they were cutting the door off to get me out - then black. He told me later that I had been conscious the whole time talking to him; they all thought that I was fine and they left me to the last. You have to understand that we were way out in the country, we were all farm grown kids, so they had to choose who went first as they only had a couple of ambulances at that time. I do not remember anything other than that about one minute. He also told me that when the ambulance attendants tried to pick me up that no matter where they touched me it hurt so much. He said that I took control and told them to put the board beside me in the car, I did a one handed push up and directed them to slide the board under me so they did that and took me away lying face down on the board. 

The next memories are fleeting, lines on the floor going by as they wheeled me into the hospital. Cold scissors going up the side of my legs as they cut my pants off, apparently I was very angry with them ruining my new jeans. My parents told me that. They sent my sister and I to a big city hospital as the small hospital in Simcoe was not equipped to deal with our injuries so they sent us to Victoria Hospital in London.

My next memory was the Near Death Experience. I don't know exactly how much time had passed. I know now that I was in London. I was floating in the air over my bed. My father was beside the bed in a chair, his elbows resting on his knees, chin resting in his hands. He had on an off-white long-sleeved kind of dress shirt like they wore in the seventies and somehow I knew that he was praying for me. I remember trying to make sense of the bars and ropes that were attached to me. My right leg was up in the air and a cast on my left. I remember thinking that I was looking down at me, 'Strange,' I thought, 'why don't I care?' I remember feeling intense love for my father and then I was somewhere else. There were others there and the overwhelming sense of love surrounded me, kind of like putting on skin, it was just so much a part of me. I cannot describe the others; it was like they did not want me to see them. I remember one of them saying, 'Look she's here,' and another turned and said 'You cannot stay here it's not time.' 'That's okay,' I said, 'I want to stay.' He came to me and took hold of both of my arms. 'No,' he said very clearly and slowly 'It's Not Time,' and he proceeded to push me back down. I remember struggling with him, arguing, and wham I was back in my body. 

I also remember the intense pain from my injuries and then black. I again had fleeting memories I could not stay conscious for any amount of time for about the next two weeks. My parents told me later that they sat there for three agonizing days before the doctors finally told them, 'Your girls are out of the woods.' I spent three months in the hospital and my sister four months, they let her come home Christmas Eve.

That was a great experience. I talked to my dad about it, probably about a month later. He listened to my entire story. I knew that he believed me, but he told me not to tell anyone as they would think that I was 'nuts.' 

The whole experience changed my life. I was different. I could feel it. I had this big exciting secret. Little by little as time passed, other things happened to me. I now to this day have someone that talks to me and I hear it very clearly. Not all of the time but in any situation where I can help someone. Once I was transported to a place where a five-year-old child was dying. She had two angels with her waiting, but they let her have time to give me a message for her mom. That is another story in itself, amazing. And another young man who I knew that was killed in a truck roll over came to me seven days almost to the time of the accident, he had a demon-like creature on his right with its hand on his shoulder and an angel on his left, right in my living room, he was terrified. I immediately went into this deep prayer, I don't know for how long, and when the moment broke and I looked up he smiled, the angel grabbed him around the waist and flew off with him the demon thing hissed and snapped at me for a moment and flew off the other way. That too is another story. I know it sounds unbelievable but it is so true. There are so many things like that that have happened since. It is wonderful, but kind of lonely as I really can't talk too much about it. I even had a mouse like on 'The Green Mile' movie. A wild field mouse came into my house and sat with me while I was going through a very hard time.  Again, another story.  But the clincher was that my sister came down to my house one day while I was away and killed it.

Now I have a question for you. What happened to my sister? She is not the same, but the other way. She is not a nice person. She always was kind of mean and vindictive growing up, but after the car accident she started doing things to mess me up. It has gotten considerably worse over the years. I don't understand, but I stay away from her as much as possible. I have tried to talk to her so many times about these things but she just puts me off, laughs at me and tells others that I am nuts. Oh well I would much rather be me. Thank you for listening. It feels good to tell someone who gets it.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  August/1977

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Direct head injury.  Many broken bones  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was involved in a car accident, there were six of us in a car that hit a large oak tree head on at a high rate of speed. My sister, two cousins and two friends were involved, but I am the only one to experience the NDE.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   While I was with the other beings.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While I was with the other beings.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It was like they stopped me before anything could go any further.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Absolute love for my father and in the place where I went.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     The boundary was those beings, but they would not let me see their faces.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Went to Sunday school occasionally as a child and Church also occasionally.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I do not listen to anyone ever unless I am led to do so by God. I talk to him constantly. He is definitely there.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   'I do not attend Church as I do not believe in organized religion, but absolutely believe in God'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I do not listen to anyone ever unless I am led to do so by God. I talk to him constantly. He is definitely there.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Only that this was the place where I wanted to be forever.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am always trying to help others. I can sense things about people. I don't know how exactly only that I know things a lot that I shouldn't. I can tune in to their emotions and personality. I can tell if I am welcome around a person or not. People want to tell me things, problems, etc. Where I work now, and in the past, I know way too much about most people that I work with. I never tell. I have on occasion had complete strangers walk up to me and tell me about some problem they are having.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Many things that I described in my story and more.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Mostly the overwhelming Love. It was so great that mere words cannot describe it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told only my father about a month later and he advised me to keep silent. I have told a few people since, but most look at me like I grew another head.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     There was no doubt in my mind at all that it was real. I even inquired shortly after if I had been given any medication during that time and actually the only thing that I had the whole time that I was there was some aspirin later on.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Definitely real as most things in my life are branches from that experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I would like to meet others like me.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I think that it is very well done.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1annette_w_probable_nde.html