{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1annette_nde.html","mytitle":"Annette NDE 6375","mylang":"de"}
          	        Annette NDE 6375  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Annette NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3117 Annette NDE 6375  					  				  			       			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Basically I remember being in a queue, some people I knew or recognized and others I didn't. This part is a bit vague. The next stage I remember very clearly. I was in a tunnel, which seemed to be moving round/rotating. I was not rotating, just walking forward.  As I walked through the tunnel, the walls were changing color all the time.  The only way I can describe it was that it reminded me of a kaleidoscope toy a friend of mine had. The colors moved and were ever changing.  The colors in the tunnel were not so strong. I remember blues and lemons. As I looked straight ahead, I could see a pinhead of white. I thought it was the end of the tunnel. It seemed like forever to get to the end and then suddenly all I could see was white light and nothing else. It was bright but didn't hurt my eyes.  I could look into it. 

Then I heard someone call my name. When I looked, I saw a man standing dressed in unusual, non-western clothes, like a plain robe.  He had a small child at his side. He reached out his hand, called my name, and gestured for me to come over but I would not go.  

Next, I remember a faint stinging sensation on my face and heard a woman calling my name. I was starting to regain consciousness.  The dental staff was really slapping my face hard to wake me up. I told my mum what I experienced and I told her the man was Jesus. She told me not to be so stupid. I forgot about this incident until about 15 years ago.  I needed my birth certificate and asked my mum if I could have it.  She told it was in a drawer upstairs and to go get it.  There were other certificates there.  I came across a birth certificate but the date of birth was wrong.  I thought she couldn't have gotten my birth date wrong.  Then I looked at the year of birth, it was 10 years before me.  So, I went downstairs to ask my mum.  She told me it was her first baby that only lived for 2 hours after birth.  Then my mind went back to the day I was at the dentist: the man, I thought, was Jesus and I wondered if the child beside him was maybe my dead sister.  This is why I believe this was a near death experience.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1970

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain.    Was given gas anesthetic and went unconscious.  Staff were unable to get a response for a long time.  Other Was given gas anesthetic and went unconscious.  Staff were unable to get a response for a long time.  I was unresponsive for a long time.  I think I was given too much anesthetic.  So I believe it could have been life threatening.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I felt very calm when I hit the white light, it was peaceful.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I went through the white light.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I don't understand the question, sorry.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No changes

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It rotated, changed color and white light at the end of it.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Some were relatives and their friends and some old neighbors, they were deceased for some time at time of experience. The others I didn't know who they were.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   White light is that unearthly.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt very calm.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I reached the end of the tunnel and saw a man and a child.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   He gestured for me to go with him but I would not go.  Sounds bizarre but my mother had always drummed in to me not to go with strangers and this is the reason I would not go.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Unknown

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Do not know   Do not really follow a religion

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     At this time I was only a young child its would be really difficult for me to have a belief system at this age

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I believed the man I saw was Jesus.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   I heard and saw a male and believed he was Jesus.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   jesus

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain     I felt it gave me a heightend awarness.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     not really sure.  Felt there was something more.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     I believed the man I saw was jesus

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       I am uncertain if God exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I believe I was being taking from my world and going to another one.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     Uncertain     /I believe I was being taking from my world and going to another one.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Uncertain     Only felt the pain of not seeing my mum again

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life     I think I had a more heightened awareness and I'm more sensitive. Slight changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   Yes and no

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   Every thing around that time is a blur.  T experience is clear

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I felt I had a more heightened awareness.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The small child by the man's side, I wondered who it was.  After finding out I had an older sister, who passed away years before, I believe it was her. I only felt the pain of not seeing my mum again. I felt there was something more. I felt it gave me a heightened awareness.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my mum when it happened; she told me not to be so stupid when I told her I saw Jesus.  Looking back, I think she actually got a shock.  I told a friend about 20 years later.  They were surprised but interested.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It felt real and lucid.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was lucid and felt real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   Only when I found out I had an older sister who passed away it brought it back to me.  It hit me like a bolt of lightning and I was shocked.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I do believe what I experience was real. I wonder what would have happened if I went with him.  Would I have died?  At this time I was only a young child, it would be really difficult for me to have a belief system at this age. Everything around that time is a blur.  The experience is clear.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Can't think of anything.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1annette_nde.html