{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1annelise_w_probable_ndes.html","mytitle":"Annelise W Probable NDEs 7445","mylang":"de"}
          	        Annelise W Probable NDEs 7445  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Annelise W Probable NDEs  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3793 Annelise W Probable NDEs 7445  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					On the three occasions I was very tired or severely unwell prior to the experience. Afterwards, I was sad to have left the place and had to make efforts to thank the people who saved my life; feeling I wish they didn't interfere. My personal life was great; it had nothing to do with my earthly life.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1984 - 1987 - 1993

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)     I was clinically dead in the first experience with a loss of 7 pints of blood. The second, the heart had stopped. The third I don't know how I lost consciousness and for how long, but it was my heart again.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Tunnel

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  Only when I left my body and upon return.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Writing about it brings a happy smile and joy at the memory of it. It was so clear, simple and obvious.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All the way through.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No   Time was irrelevant. I was in another dimension.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My organic vision had nothing to do with the vision during the experience

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Hearing was not necessary words weren't used. Communications were simply mind to mind.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     On one NDE not in the 2 following experiences. I went straight to another realm.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Family members and friends were there, it is only after returning to earth that I realized they all had deceased. Communications were mind to mind.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   So beautiful better than the Northern lights!

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Great unimaginable beauty, clarity and a feeling of happiness

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt pure bliss, Love and deep Joy and Peace. Words are hard to use trying to share the something, which we do not perceive in our current world. A feeling that our actions did matter, not greatly but mattered.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Understanding was not the issue but the feeling of peace and harmony yes. It was all clear. The feeling that everything was simply as it should be.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

The experience included:       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     Not at that time. I do have very accurate dreams of events to come, as though I have already lived that day: from one day to a month ahead.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    No comment   Study of religions.  Question answered in the next paragrah

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Meditations, gratitude are now part of my life

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       No comment   Several faiths. Raised as a Christian, I  study the Koran while living in the Middle East for 5 years, then the Kabalah, Taoism and became familiar with the Buddist Philosophy through 6 weeks stay in a Tibetan Monastery.   Personally I consider religions as a way to a better thinking and behaving and consquently hapiness.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     It was better than anything I ever heard.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     The concept of no beginning and no end was easy in spite of our mortal life which is defined by birth to death.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain     earthly life was only a part of our existance

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     no begining no end

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Not only one but a group of pure wise spirits which I mentally nickname "The beings of lights"

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Afterwards: It would be hard if not impossible to change when experiencing such Love, beauty and peace and understanding.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain     The feeling that our actions matters

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     It was timeless. No begining no end

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Uncertain     Good attitudes, actions, empathy with other form of life.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Uncertain     Just that our current life is just a moment in time.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     All was of an incredible beauty and love and our earthly life was small and of small importance as long as you could access this knowledge.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     Moderate changes in my life. At first a longing to return, then a comfort knowing I will go back there.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The words we use describe our world have earthly reference and to try to explain the experience was hard. I searched through poetry to find a more meaningful use of words.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   Perfectly Clear

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Time travel and healing

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Out of the 3 NDEs, all were the most important and always there was peace love and beauty.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared with very few close people at first, but now I do with who is able to understand, as it is now a more accepted experience. I didn't feel the need to convince people.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   Books have been published on the subject, but I only gave it my mild attention.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Words are square and limited and hard to use to describe an ethereal world.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Another two NDEs      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1annelise_w_probable_ndes.html