{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1anne_t_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Anne T Possible NDE 4983","mylang":"de"}
          	        Anne T Possible NDE 4983  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Anne T Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			2590 Anne T Possible NDE 4983  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					First experience:

I was in a car accident while driving with my four children.

I fell asleep at the wheel and hit the break too abruptly. The car hit the concrete side rails with such force that the car zigzagged and hit first in the front and then in back. When the car hit on the left hand side I remember seeing a light behind me, like a bright sun (it was nighttime), large and with a soft warmth. It was right behind the concrete side rail. I felt my seat belt and something that said 'Stay.'



Second experience:

In September 2010, I underwent surgery for sterilization. While I was under the anesthesia, I saw the same bright void and felt the same sweet warmth. I heard 'Not yet.' When I awoke, I remembered. Later on, the doctor told me that they could not perform the procedure because there were problems with scar tissue and the anesthesia. I was given a document to take with me along with my identification card. I would like to find out more from them about what really happened.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  mars 1993

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Surgery-related    Other '- premier : accident de voiture - opération chirurgicale'  Car accident with the first experience.  An operation with complications with the second experience.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I don't know.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I don't know.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It must have lasted a fraction of a second, yet I felt that it was lengthy.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The clarity/light: everything surrounding this sun looked hazy.  My field of vision was focused on this luminous center which I think resembles what we see when looking at a black hole but (conversely) luminous.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     I saw this bright source like a tunnel that called to me, like a cyclone or bright black hole, but each time something told me to stay, not to go there yet.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A large bright sphere.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Soft warmth, wellbeing. A calling without words: as if the luminous source was beckoning me.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I was depressed after the operation. I have gained perspective on many things.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Maybe. I was rather young when I had the accident. Nevertheless, when my grandfather died nine months later, even though I was not near him at the time of his death, I saw him lying in the sun; I felt his warmth and spirit around me. I spoke to him and then he left.  The same thing happened with my grandmother. I knew that she was going to pass away, I felt it and I went to the hospital because I knew that she was alone and did not want her to die alone. She released her soul as soon as I opened the door. I felt that I had to be there, it was a force, a knowing. Even my mother asked, 'How did you know?'

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The fact that I sensed that I was still needed on earth.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    With a couple of friends and partly with my husband.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I read a lot and I had heard about it. I was convinced after my operation in 2010. That makes me approach the idea of death with softness and warmth.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     The first experience was probably real, the second definitely real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1anne_t_possible_nde.html