{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1anne_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Anne S NDE 696","mylang":"de"}
          	        Anne S NDE 696  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  				  				  					Anne S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						227  Anne S NDE  696  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

An inner body separated from my outer body after clasp mechanism had released it.  I floated to corner of ceiling, passed through the roof, saw layers in roof as at the atomic level or cellular level.  I drifted upwards into the night sky, saw rooftops, houses, streets, gardens, parked cars from above, I saw starts in night sky, then entered a yellow light tunnel. The tunnel had ring structure; my hand would not pass through its wall. I traveled down the center of the tunnel until I touched the wall at high speed; this made me crash into the walls for a while, then I regained equilibrium. I heard a voice saying I mustn't worry, 'Dying is easy, you're nearly there,' etc. The tunnel opened out like the end of a trumpet into a space that had rainbow colors and a sky.


I was drawn to the left and went along a path of reddish golden soil/clay, but gliding without using my legs. I saw plants, bushes, and a golden sunlight type of light. I approached a group of non-material people clothed in long cotton type clothes tied at the waist. I thought I vaguely saw my mother and father in the group of about ten people.  The leader at the front made me understand the space between us was a boundary and if I crossed over it, I couldn't come back to Earth as I was before.


I was absorbed into his eyes and he showed me his world, flying over hills, waterfalls, and scenery in golden light.  He said that if I wanted to go with him, all I had to do was to touch his hand, which he raised towards me.  I said I wasn't ready yet, and he raised his hand and propelled me backwards down the light tunnel, back through the ceiling of the doctor's surgery.  I hovered horizontally and then was lowered nearer to my body, there was some adjustment of limbs to align the two bodies, and then I dropped back in on the doctor's couch.  The doctors came in and injected the back of my hand (vein) with what I think was adrenaline, but I'm not sure what it was.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1980

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Allergic reaction  Anaphylactic shock at doctor's surgery following an injection to desensitize me for an allergy   Felt that I died during anaphylactic shockAnaphylactic shock, discomfort in head, general malfunction and breakdown in body due to allergic reaction to injection.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  There was a second body which separated, including my full personality and consciousness - a complete unit just like me, but in a light-body. My consciousness had no appearance and was just the same as present state of invisible thought.  My other body was light and lightly clothed, and I had my mind intact as now.  The second body clearly separated and there was a physical sensation to this separation.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Felt fully conscious and alert at all times.  Very observant, inquisitive, testing if my hand would pass through the light tunnel wall, learning everything I could from the experience and observations.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   High speed travel.  No solar clock (sunlight).  Gliding rather than walking, and flying. Easy transition from standing to flying, as if by thought or wish.  Speed returning down tunnel back to my body very greatly accelerated.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Buzzing vibration when passing through the ceiling.  Reassuring voice when I crashed into the tunnel walls - 'Dying is easy, not far to go now, don't be afraid, you're nearly there now.'  Spoke to leader of the group I met by telepathy.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     Tunnel of lemon light, hollow centre, accelerating as journey progressed, opened out like end of a trumpet.  People I met seemed to be standing in a small enclosure behind a little fence.  About a meter of space separated me from their leader - if I had crossed that space I could not come back to Earth in the same human form.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     A group of about ten people in clothed light-bodies waited at end of my path with a leader.  Felt I knew the people but did not focus on their faces.  Leader showed me landscapes of his world through his eyes, and said that if I wanted to go there with him, all I had to do was to touch his hand

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Uncertain   Not bright light - but areas lit by yellowish light. Saw some rainbow colors when emerging from the yellow light tunnel.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Visited landscapes flying above them to see their world - saw hills, slopes, big waterfall from above flying over it, and misty golden light landscapes.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Clear that a second life was being offered to me, felt it would be revealed to me if I chose to go with them.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     No review as I was being offered a choice to live or die. There would only have been a review if I had chosen to die.

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes     No physical structure, but a space of about one meter between me and their leader, which I should only cross if I wanted to go with them to the next life.  People in the group were behind a picket fence about eighteen inches high, the leader was not separated from me except by the space boundary between us.  I said I wasn't ready to cross the space between us, and the leader accepted my decision but seemed annoyed.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was offered a choice and begged to return for the doctor's sake and for my two year old son. I didn't know then that I would be immediately dispatched straight back to my body.  Dying is an assisted process, and we do not control things ourselves, they draw you from the body and return you back if it is their wish.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Closeness to God, love God, friends with spiritual beings, feel I need them in my life, live in two worlds talking to both, consult them regularly, work for public sector, councils and health service rather than profit making organizations.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Heightened ESP.  I see the recently dead, I have seen golden beings, I could heal and trained many years later as a Reiki Master.  I had problems with energy and still do - high energy that can make light bulbs flicker or alarms go off.  They talk to me, guide me, take care of me, I talk to them, I depend on them to see me through life, I feel they protect me, and have intervened in potential road accidents to protect me.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Just found it an 'interesting' experience.  Worst part was crashing into walls of light tunnel at very high speed- my own fault for sticking my arm out and trying to touch the walls.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Careful not to cast my pearls to swine.  Only discuss with select few who are open minded or capable of understanding.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   Have left my body a few times but not due to illness or accident.  No drugs, substances related. Natural leaving and coming back.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      There are two bodies, one enclosed within the other.  We have both all the time whilst on earth.  The second is a transitional phase and may possibly be temporary until we reach our final stage. Consciousness/ mind belongs to the second body, not this physical body.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      What are the physical experiences/ sensations when the two bodies begin to separate?   Do you have a relationship to, and an awareness of, beings living in another dimension?  Are you aware of a spiritual hierarchy, and do you live in a relationship to that?  

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1anne_s_nde.html