{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1anne_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Anne R NDE 4553","mylang":"de"}
          	        Anne R NDE 4553  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Anne R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2292 Anne R NDE 4553  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					June 21, 1957, I turned fifteen years old. A week later, after going to the mailbox to mail my grandparents a thank you note, I was strangled and then kidnapped. I later came to in a cornfield. SOMETHING told me to pretend I was dead. I was aware someone was there - later I heard him start to leave. He said repeatedly, 'She's dead, she's dead.' All I wanted to do was go to sleep.

While I was 'asleep', I saw blue sky and lots of very bright light in the background of a 'spiritual' figure (a man - GOD?) in flowing red robes commanding me in a very stern voice: 'Anne - get up!' I just wanted to sleep. He again commanded me to get up. Somehow I did. I stumbled through the corn and later came to a dirt road. Why I turned right instead of left, I don't know. I soon saw a farmhouse and collapsed in their yard. They called the ambulance. I don't remember giving my name, but apparently I did, because just before going into surgery, I remember my mother was there. I heard later my heart stopped several times during surgery. I don't remember how many pints of blood I needed, but it was a lot. The criminal was caught and was sent to prison for life without parole.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  June 1957

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Criminal attack  Kidnapped  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' Not sure  I was dying - left in a corn field with my throat cut, rope around my neck, naked, blood everywhere.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   While I was 'asleep'.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While I was 'asleep'.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I was numb - everything seemed numb - I had no sense of time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was so very clear and I felt trust in this 'spirit'.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was just so powerful.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Just the one I already described.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Beautiful bright white light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Numb.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Yes. With the different tragic things that have happened in my life, I have always remembered that 'spirit' telling me to get up.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Very.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Episcopal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am strong in my spiritual belief, but rather quiet about it. I don't go to church very often, but my close friends know how I feel.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Episcopal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am strong in my spiritual belief, but rather quiet about it. I don't go to church very often, but my close friends know how I feel.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain Very mixed.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The whole experience is difficult to talk about; plus it makes other people uncomfortable if it is discussed.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Not sure how to describe it - I sometimes seem to have a sense of what other people are feeling.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        There is a God and a life after death; and that God is with me all the time.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Twenty years. That particular person was fascinated. Confirmed that there is a GOD and a life after death. I have not told many people about my experience, because of what happened to me, makes people very uncomfortable.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Real amazing - I'm alive.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It is just as real today as it was then.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       As I said, it is just as clear to me today, as it was then. Why I survived, I don't know, other than I must have had a NDE.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I will need to think about this.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1anne_r_nde.html