{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1anne_o_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Anne O Probable NDE 4495","mylang":"de"}
          	        Anne O Probable NDE 4495  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Anne O Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2263 Anne O Probable NDE 4495  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was suffering with a contagious disease, scarlet fever; I was separated from my siblings in a bedroom apart from them. I remember it was close to Christmas and my mother described the Christmas tree and told me I will be well to enjoy the festivities, which will happen in a few days.

I remember very little since I had a high fever, suddenly I felt my body sinking into the mattress and closing over me. Then I was looking down on a little girl lying in a fetal position on her right side. My mother was standing at the bottom of the bed. Suddenly I heard the front door opening and footsteps walking down the hall toward my bedroom.  My father apparently went to see if he could find a doctor. He told my mother the doctor was unable to visit me and that he should take me to a hospital for contagious diseases, he had a taxi waiting for him.

I didn't feel sad while looking at the scene, no feeling whatsoever.

I then found myself in a very bright place, outdoors; I remember a very blue sky, and a large, bright gold gate with extending fence as far as I could see.

There was a table in front of me with two people standing behind it, they looked at me then down at the table and told me I couldn't stay. There was no question about my destiny, I had no choice, and I understood.

I then found myself in a French Speaking hospital several miles from my home where I stayed until I was well, about three months, when my parents were told to pick me up. I don't know if they knew my whereabouts, we never talked about it.

I mentioned to my mother that I had an experience of leaving this world, or something to that effect, and described what I had seen. My mother told me never to tell anyone this story, I would never be believed and would look like a fool or a liar - I can't remember the exact words. I kept my secret until approximately ten years ago when I heard Art Bell on 'Coast to Coast AM' talking to people who had a similar experience. Mine was not quite like the others, there was no tunnel that I remember and can't remember seeing any other beings there.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1933 or 34

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Illness    Other 'scarlet fever, contagious disease'  Scarlet fever.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Throughout the experience.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Throughout the experience.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see the bedroom more clearly, like items on the bureau, things I have never seen before, I was very alert to my father's footsteps in the hallway, and his and my mother's conversation.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Same as paragraph above.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     Not that I remember.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Only the huge bright, golden gates and fence surounding as far as I could see

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt as though I was not a part of the scene, I was looking at it only.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I seemed to understand that I was no longer a little girl or a member of the family, and when I was told I couldn't stay, I knew it was my duty to leave.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain Probably, I feel so fortunate that I had this experience, it helped me to see the good in others.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I had a greater understand of others, and this continued throughout my life.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Every part of my experience is meaningful to me; I have lived with it every day of my life. I'm sure it has influenced me greatly.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The length of time was approximately seventy-two years. I often told people not to be afraid of death, but couldn't tell them about my experience until I opened up ten years ago.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     At such a young age I can't remember how I felt days, weeks or months after it happened. But it influenced my life in many ways.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I felt that I was sent back to look after my family, this is another story that would take a lot of time to go into. I felt throughout my life that I wasn't alone, which enabled me to handle situations without feeling sorry for myself, as young people so often do.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None at all. Just writing about it has been good for me.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1anne_o_probable_nde.html