{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ann_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Anne M NDE 726","mylang":"de"}
          	        Anne M NDE 726  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  				  				  					Anne M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						226  Anne M NDE  726  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I suddenly found myself alone. In a dismal, gray immensely huge, foggy space, I was alone.  I felt an overwhelming fear growing up inside me - I felt foul, spoiled, overcome with shame. Why I hadn't done more when I'd had the chance?  The opportunity to change things for the better was now over and I'd missed it.  The sense of remorse was overwhelming.


A knowledge filled me—here in this horrible empty space—there was no possibility for change. I felt so remorseful; I'd missed my chance.


Footnote: The details just mentioned I forgot to include in my first submission - I feel however, that they're important. It is also interesting to note that at the time I was still fairly young, I had not done anything 'wrong.'  I was a nurse and cared for people, yet still I experienced a negative NDE.


Then I thought of something; I was filled with fear again—‘My friend! How was he? I had to get back to him!’


A long silver chord attached to me and pulled me with immense speed down.  All I could think of during the descent was my friend.  Terrified, I wanted to get back to him; I felt he needed me. I was so desperate—I felt I had to get.  The emotions that were flowing through me made me realize that I was still myself—that even in this space I was the same person I ever was.


(As I mentioned in my first submission)  - I returned into my body under great pressure as if tons of sand were smothering me.  I was overwhelmed by the huge weight bearing upon me, but I fought the pressure and forced myself against the pressure to begin breathing.


I brought myself back to life—by bringing myself to breathe again and by curing my neck.  The panic to reach my friend, whom I felt needed me, was so great that it gave me the power to cure myself to get back to him.


(For more...See the first submission...)


Footnote: Also of interest - after my NDE experience, my ideas about reincarnation changed—I knew it was true; it felt so normal.


And although my experience was a negative one, I lost my fear of death.  I gained the knowledge that one could cure oneself.  I'd also gained the ability to cure others.


My daughter was crying.  She'd found her goldfish dead on the floor.  It had been lying there for so long, that it had begun to dry out.  I picked it up, put it in the water tank, slowly moved it up and down, and it came back to life.  This has happened so often with other fish that my husband and daughter think it’s normal now that fish, as well as cats, all have nine lives!  I have also noticed that I may be able to help heal people, but I'm not sure about this.  I was terrified about his safety. I kept thinking how is he....


It was a car accident.  Both, I and my partner, were in danger.  The car swerved off a country road, flew into the air over a cliff - flipping onto its roof - hitting the ground and smashing into a tree. The car was demolished.


We were only saved because the car we were driving was an old model Volvo, 1964, with a steel or iron roll bar that withheld the impact of the crash.


In desperation, with a reflex-movement to get out of the car, I released my seat belt.  The car flying through the air, flipped suddenly when it the ground.  I was thrown with full force up against the roof.


I fell with all my weight onto the back of my neck.  I felt a sudden, painful snap.  The pain in my neck was so extreme that it shot through my head like a blast of pure energy.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    Friday the 13th, June 1980

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain   Accident    Clinical death severe neck injury

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed: Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      fear and remorse

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What is your religion now?      Liberal   I believe in forgiveness and respect. I can not bare suffering and fight all forms of rejection. It is my calling to create a basis for mutual understanding, i am here to build bridges.  After the NDE I knew, without doubt, that life was evergoing.   After my NDE, comimg back felt familiar. I lost a fear of death and knew that I would probably come back again.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Although my experience was a negative one, I lost my fear of death.  I gained the knowledge that one could cure oneself.  I'd also gained the ability to cure others.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain     

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ann_m_nde.html