{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1anne_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Anne C NDE 2616","mylang":"de"}
          	        Anne C NDE 2616  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Anne C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						851  Anne C NDE  2616  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I was rushed to the hospital. Approximately one hour later, I whispered to my husband to take care of our children. Almost immediately, I found myself floating on the ceiling of the room and looking down at my body on the bed. I remember watching my husband run out of the room yelling for help. Then I was floating in what seemed like a tunnel. I could see white light in the distance. As I got closer to the light, I experienced a tremendous sense of peace. I don't know whether or not I actually saw friends or family but there was a vague sense that they surrounded me. It was a wonderful feeling and I remember thinking that it would be nice to stay there forever. A voice came to me then, and said it wasn't time for me to stay, and that I needed to 'go back'. The next thing I remember was lying back in bed surrounded by medical staff. They gave me oxygen and were pounding on my chest. Once I was fully conscious, they gave me several pints of blood. My doctor told me that he thought they had lost me.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1971  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness Childbirth       Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I hemorrhaged one week after delivery.  The hospital staff were not aware at the time how close to death I was because of high hemoglobin.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I remember worrying about my children. That really was the focus of my experience until I got to the bright light - then it was thinking how peaceful it was and that I would like to stay there.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Moving toward the light.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     I felt as if I was in the field with the bright light both for a long time and yet only briefly.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It has been so many years that don't remember.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Too many years have gone by to remember.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A dark tunnel with light in the distance. The closer I got to the light, the larger and brighter it became.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I think I had the sensation of being surrounded by family - kind of like vague figures but I remember hearing voices clearly.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A pin point at first. But as I got closer to it - larger and brighter.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I felt as if I were in a field of beautiful wild flowers.  Since then, I always think of heaven as being a field of flowers.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       First sadness; then peacefulness.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Remembered many past events     I don't remember learning anything new, just a sense that my past surrounded me.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Episcopalian  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believe there is definitely some kind of afterlife. That God is forgiving, kind and merciful. And, if there isn't an afterlife, it doesn't really matter because the experience of dying was very pleasant.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Looking for new church  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe there is definitely some kind of afterlife. That God is forgiving, kind and merciful. And, if there isn't an afterlife, it doesn't really matter because the experience of dying was very pleasant.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I felt that my knowledge of an afterlife and God were a certainty after this experience.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     My mother died four years later. I lived in Connecticut.  She lived in Florida. At 1:10 am, I sat up in bed and said, 'Mom's dead.' I didn't call my father for fear of alarming him unnecessarily. At 9:00 am, he called me, and before he could tell me, I said, 'Yes, I know, mom died at about 1:00 this morning'. He was dumbfounded. I still believe that she was thinking about me at the time she died.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        My life was in turmoil at the time, and it made it very clear that I had three children to take care of - especially my newborn. It also made me realize that death is nothing to fear, and that God or some great spiritual being is at the end of the tunnel. I do not hesitate to tell my patients that now.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I didn't tell anyone about my out of body experience until 1975 when a friend of mine told me about an amazing book she had just read called, Life After Life. When I read it, I knew that I had experienced that, and felt somewhat freer to share it with others. My father died in 1980. Several months prior to his death, I went to visit him in Florida. The day I left to go home to my family I sat on his bed and as we said goodbye, both knowing it would be the last time we would see each other, I told him of my experience in order to ease his transition. He thanked me profusely and said that it helped take away the fear.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real      I remembered it vividly, but was quite sure that no one would believe me. So I didn't mention it.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     After reading Life After Life, and then more recent versions of NDEs I am certain it was real.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It is very important for me to remember the pleasantness of the event as I grow older and closer to the end of my life. My own religious beliefs have changed somewhat over the years but I still believe that the light was God or some spiritual being.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1anne_c_nde.html