{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1anne_nde_7805.html","mytitle":"Anne NDE 7805","mylang":"de"}
          	        Anne NDE 7805  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Anne NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4033 Anne NDE 7805  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I'm writing this in my mother's name, because her English isn't very good.

The incident happened in the year 2005. My mother was 62 years old at that time and I was 26. I'm her daughter. 

We were sitting in the living room.  My mother stood up and walked to the closet to get something off the highest shelf. She got on top of an unstable stool to stand on. While reaching for the top shelf, she lost her balance, fell from the stool and banged her head on the hard floor. 

My uncle and I immediately rushed to help my mom. She was lying on the floor with her eyes closed.  After maybe half a minute she opened her eyes. She had a very confused look and her eyes were glazed over.  She wasn't herself, but was just a moving body, not really present inside her body. We helped her to walk to the sofa and I was sitting next to her on the chair the whole time until she was back to her normal self. 

The next day, she told me that when she fell off the stool she suddenly found herself in an unknown and different place. She was sitting in a vehicle that was driving or moving forward on a road. Next to her, on her left hand side, she knew someone was sitting and 'driving' her.  But for some reason, she couldn't move her head to the left; she could only look to her right and to the front. The vehicle had no roof. She was sitting in a chair. I asked my mom if the vehicle looked like a car, but my mother wasn't sure, it was just something that looked like a car, but was floating or gliding over the road. Next to the road there was a pavement with people walking in slow peace.  A bit further she saw green grass, trees and in the distance beautiful detached houses. The road the vehicle was moving on had high trees on both sides. The people who walked on the pavement looked all very happy. Some of them waved to my mom and smiled. She saw her deceased husband who was my stepfather.  He bent forward towards the car, smiled and waved to her. He was there with Blondie, our golden retriever dog who died a long time ago. My mom also saw her old fiancé from when she was young who died in a car crash.  She also saw a few other people who aren't alive any longer. There was also a woman who was an old friend of my mother, but they lost contact years ago. My mom was surprised to see her there because she thought the woman was still alive.  But after this experience my mom found out that the woman died a few years ago of cancer. The air had a sweet smell of daffodils. My mom turned to the person next to her and spoke in thoughts, not words, 'A bit further down the road my deceased parents are waiting for me.'  At that moment, someone said, 'Not yet.'

My mother woke up on the floor in the living room with my uncle and I helping to bring her to the sofa. This isn't the end of this experience though. My mother said that while she was lying on the sofa she was aware of the fact she was on the sofa and I was sitting next to her in the chair asking the whole time if she's alright.  She saw a man leaning against our coffee table. My mom said that she couldn't understand who the man was.  She thought it was maybe a doctor and she didn't understand where he came from because she was still a bit dizzy from the fall. I was sitting next to her and I didn't see anyone. Apparently the man had shoulder-length, long wavy hair and was wearing a long white dress with a rope around his waist. Mom said that he came closer to her, near her face and looked at her with a very concerned and loving look in his big round brown eyes. Then he turned his head a bit to the side and said something along the lines of 'She's back, she returned.' After that he stood there near the table for short while and then raised from the floor in the corner of our living room and disappeared like in a fog. 

After lying on the sofa for an hour, my mother was fine and back to her old self. I think it's great she had an experience like this. We both think that the man in the living room must have been her guardian angel or someone who is looking after her during this life. Maybe it was the same person who was 'driving' her in the vehicle before. My mother has told this story to many people and most of them were very interested to hear about it.  Thanks for reading. Be kind to each other and appreciate the people who love you. Life is very short.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  2005

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.  Accident.         Life threatening event, but not clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I didn't think about time, it didn't exist.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Husband, fiance, friend, our dog. I knew my parents were waiting for me a bit further down the road. I knew they were living in a house. But the voice said 'not yet.'

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     It was a place I didn't know.  There was a very beautiful long street, on both sides lined with tall trees and grass.  Detached houses were in the distance. The air smelled of daffodils. All people looked very happy.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   There was a man leaning against our table in the living room. He looked similar to Jesus (brown wavy hair, long robe), but I'm not sure who he was.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   When I was six years old, I had an operation on my appendix. During the operation, I was suddenly running through a beautiful meadow with the most gorgeous flowers I've ever seen. It was amazing, I was so happy and it was one of the best moments that I can remember. Today, almost 65 years later, I often think about how beautiful that meadow was and how I would love to run through that grass again. It was just gorgeous. I never forgot about it. After the operation, the doctors said that my situation during the operation was very critical.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     All the people I saw were deceased and even our dog. Also, I knew my deceased parents were waiting for me.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1anne_nde_7805.html