{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1anna_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Anna M NDE 739","mylang":"de"}
          	        Anna M NDE 739  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Anna M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						247  Anna M NDE  739  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was in surgery when something went wrong. I 'popped' from my body and was met with a bright light. This light gave me unconditional Love, and explained I had to return as I had three children to raise. Without words, I was told many mysteries of the world. There is no hell or heaven, there is just experience. No good or bad either! I had been taught wrong by Religion, and I had to return to find truth! I knew nothing about reincarnation and karma, and the Spirit world was to teach me to do it right! I had not yet 'Mastered' myself.


I wanted to stay with this 'Presence' as I loved Him more than my family. I was popped back in my body in pain. I tore the needles out, and cried for days. Then I began to hear a ringing in my left ear and that was how I became intuitive. I could read astrology, learned in dreams. I am very spiritual now, and live each day like my last, though I do not fear death! 

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    Nov. 20, 1969

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Surgery-related    Clinical death Heart stopped

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I had a shimmering body like millions of tiny lights.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Lucid

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    A 'POP' when I left the body.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     Felt like I was pulled through the top of my head, at the Crown Chakra.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     A Holy Presence that I was ashamed to look at. Just what I said before, Religion is a farce to keep the masses under control. I was told without words that I had to learn and help others in their growth.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   It was brighter than the Sun!

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was in a very bright temple like structure.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I learned that if I did not Master myself, I would be subject to return to Earth.

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw what looked like a deck of cards, each being a life I had led before on this Earth.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was upset to think I had to return to teach others what I learned.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Confidence because I was a co-worker with God. Compassion for the millions who are worshiping a symbol of God. Not the real deal!

After the NDE:

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I read dreams, astrology and can tell who is sad or glad from across the room.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Best - going and meeting the Presence.  Worse - having to return to my body.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I read dreams on the net for others. They believe me as I am physic now.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Uncertain   Contemplation will bring me close.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      There is only ONE God! He loves us all, no matter what! He does not judge.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1anna_m_nde.html