{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1anna_bz_nde.html","mytitle":"Anna BZ NDE 7889","mylang":"de"}
          	        Anna BZ NDE 7889  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Anna BZ NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4087 Anna BZ NDE 7889  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in a private clinic for a laparoscopy for the removal of gallstones. During the operation, I was totally conscious. I heard the medical staff talking and could repeat what they said even today. It was some time before I came round from the anaesthetic. I heard all the comments the physician made at my bed. I could not answer, but I could make out some basic facial expressions like frowning, pressing the lips together or closing the eyes tightly, but I could not lift the hand. After I woke up, I told my operating doctor about what happened. 

I experienced flying through a black tunnel. 

I think I also remember a test of my life. I answered different questions. 

I found myself in a roofless hall made of glass, that looked like the Pantheon. I sat at a wall and just looked around. I saw a dark passage with a table like in the Last Supper. The stools are placed like in a theatre. 

Young people, maybe 30-40 years old, sit by the table.  They were dressed in very bright colours of green, red, blue, and gold. They talk. 

At the end of the table, I see my mother sitting, who died when she was 88 years old, except now she looks like she is 40 years old. She wears a dress that I know to be dark blue in reality, but this dress was white with red roses. A woman stands up and walks up to me, but she walks dreamlike, as if she doesn’t see me. Suddenly she returns. From above, through the opening in the ceiling, I saw a great brightness like a beam of non-blinding white light.  I kept saying repeatedly the whole time, 'My God, where am I?' 

Suddenly, I get it.  I put two and two together; my mother, The Light, the table, and those people. I was dead.  I said, 'No! No! I don’t want to be here. I got here by mistake. And what about my husband, my children and my grandchildren. And my patients?'  My mother rose from the table, comes over to me and takes my hand.  She leads me to the corridor and says, 'It’s not your time yet.  We must part; you must go back.'

Then I remember that I looked just like a ghost in a comic book, looking around the operating room and seeing my own defibrillation.

I saw the way a woman was lying on the bed in the surgery room. I was wondering who it is lying there. The doctor said to the assisting staff, 'Now get away.' Then he used the defibrillator on the woman.  It was me. 

I also remember a priest giving me the last sacrament. The priest said, 'You’ll go to heaven.' 

They say I didn’t breath for 8 minutes. My brain overcame neuroplasticity. It took approximately 1.5 years to get back to normal. I had been cared for by heaven then. I was full of love, even to people to whom I shouldn’t have any love. I read a lot about this topic. I was afraid of telling other people because I didn’t want them to think that I was crazy. In my opinion the most invaluable piece is ‘Consciousness beyond life’ by Dr. Pin Van Lommel. I attended one of his conferences. The people I told about my experience, they say that I should not keep it to myself. I changed, and my life changed.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  22 05 2013

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related While under general anesthesia. CPR given.   operacja w znieczuleniu ogólnym  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I saw the defibrillation as I detached from my body.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I think that I heard things that I normally would not have been able to hear.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I think in this hall. But afterwards, many things happened as well. I received conversations held in the hospital telepathically, and I could not have heard them as they were held in other rooms. For a certain time, I was able to see things that were about to happen. I could do so before.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     The pace of events was very fast. It is not possible that so many things happened.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I had the impression that many things were happening. Definitely more than is possible. That the order of the events is different. The chronology of these events is lost.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I had the impression that I heard everything. I could not speak or react, but I heard everything, quite a lot.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I flew through a tunnel, as if someone had pushed me right into it. I think that I saw elements of hell on the walls. It looked like that painting of the Angel Michael in Rome.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My mother led me out of heaven.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   In the hall where to the tunnel had led me, there was an unearthly light. A great white brightness.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     In this hall, I stood in the open door, perhaps leading to this wonderful light… great nature.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Great, non-explicable love

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Yes, I just WAS there.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events     I was granted absolution for something bad I did.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No     Actually, no, then I had dreams about the future afterwards.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   I wanted to return, I left a husband who is 20 years older. He would not get by without me. I would have left patients who need me.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   Katolik średniowierzący

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     My spiritual practice has gotten better.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Regarding the beliefs of my religion it looks like it, you could only be convinced

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am less materialistic; I value the spiritual sphere much more

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   Next to this light there was a man, maybe it was Saint Peter.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   At a clairvoyant’s, I have seen Jesus, but this doesn’t concern this experience.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No     wierzę,że sie istnieje . ale nie było informacji

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     This connection, I think, is this enormous love.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     This brightness is the energy of God. He doesn’t need to take shape.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I think that my return is for healing, to deliver new small people onto the earth; especially difficult cases; I am a gynecologist who can do things others cannot do.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     I was granted absolution for my sin after I had shown remorse.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     There is life after death.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     You need to be a good human being.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     I was granted absolution for my sin after I had shown remorse.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     This enormous love lasted approximately 1.5 years

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       I have definitely grown spiritually and I am more religious, and I have great compassion.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am definitely viewed better by people, and I advanced in my job, as well.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   Actually no, I can try to describe it, but I am afraid they cannot understand me. In order to understand what I said, a great wisdom is necessary and a great degree of consciousness, even for a Catholic.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.    I can see it all very clearly.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have the gift of healing, and sometimes of clairvoyance.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The worst was that I know that I maybe won’t be able to return. The best thing was the absolution and the return.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Sometimes, then they thanked me for sharing.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   Actually no, I haven’t even read Life after Life.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     In the beginning, I thought that I had gone crazy, but the literature showed me that others have been there as well.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I said it exactly like Dr. Pim van Lommel wrote and you cannot forget that.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   Actually no, there haven’t been any more events like this, but I meet people with that kind of experience.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am curious as to what purpose my return is. If this is the only thing, I wonder.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I’d answer any question. Because knowledge must be given to the people, a translator is necessary for the text to be understood correctly, because mere interpretation of a text is not to be understood.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1anna_bz_nde.html