{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1anna_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Anna A NDE 7433","mylang":"de"}
          	        Anna A NDE 7433  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Anna A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3784 Anna A NDE 7433  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					The gush of blood that all of a sudden turned into an endless river, soon turned into a sudden process of feeling very, very cold. I felt I was freezing, as if life itself was leaving me. I was shivering uncontrollably on a surgical bed and the very dedicated doctors and nurses were trying their best to cover me with blankets, and to keep talking to me. My doctor had left after a long-lasting, difficult labor. She'd seen my son born. She'd seen me smile and feed him.  She'd left the staff with instructions to check and see whether I'd be okay, considering there was no usual bleeding during the labor, just the placenta and the baby. 

I heard them calling her and asking her to return. I had squeezed my eyes to the point of utter pain from the ‘freezing’ that had overtaken every single limb, which I was sensing in such detail during those minutes. All of a sudden, I could only think of God and felt an urge to go, to let go. Then slightly opening my eyes, the last thing I whispered to the nurse, while grabbing the cross hanging from her neck, which was lying on my chest, ‘Do you believe in God?’ She was engaged in saving me, but that second, she turned to me, removed the necklace and placed it inside my hand. 

That's when I started floating. I barely glanced at the over packed surgery room, emergency bells were ringing for my doctor. I saw her looking at my body and talking to it as I was hovering above, happy, healthy, excited. Before I knew it, I was sucked like from if by a vacuum cleaner, into this wonderful pool of light. Even today, that pool is the most beautiful, most perfect thing I've ever experienced.  For lack of a truly better word, I can't describe it as anything else but ‘thing.’ Yet, the one word I'd address to the entire experience/journey would be ‘REALITY’. THAT pool, THAT place, THAT event was the most REAL thing that's ever happened to me. 

On that background, the life I'd been living on planet Earth was an insignificant second of an experiment, which I'd volunteered for. The ME; I wasn't Anna the lady who'd just given birth; but it was a light being: ‘LIGHT’ in every sense.  I was made of the same light as the one with which the pool was filled. I sensed everything, felt everything beautiful as there can ever be. I thought and understood everything and was floating around inside the pool happily, ‘FINALLY back HOME!!’  ‘LIGHT’ as in lightness, no gravity, no strings attached.  I was s-o-o-o happy that I wouldn't have to sleep, or eat anymore, no tiredness, no negativity, no anxieties whatsoever, and you float and float lightly, dancing and singing with no audiovisuals, you're just BEING, that's what you're for: TO BE!  

I did have a brusque memory of my husband and children, of our house and friends and relatives.  I absolutely KNEW (don't know how, but I sensed perfectly well that I simply KNEW) that they'll be perfectly well, whether I'm with them or not. Next, I was supported by light pool-waves that felt so gentle and caressing, like a mother's touch and a mother's love.  

I floated onward into a space that was endless and was neither too bright, nor too dark. It was a place, though, without limits. Then I saw seven and some more sheds of lights/light beings moving towards me. We didn't have speech. We conversed, yet not a single vocal word was uttered. The very central being was my deceased mother-in-law who told me they'd be keeping me company, for I was to return in a while. 

Her thought came into my being and I could feel and see things through her mind and sense exactly how she meant it. I ‘told’ her, ‘I would so love for you to be with us and play with your grandchildren’. She ‘answered’, ‘Don’t you worry at all! Before this child was born, we went together to all the gardens and lovely forests and we laughed, played, and sang together. Besides, now that I'm here I can protect you much stronger than if I was there, weak and ill.’ 

My aunt, father-in-law, and grandmothers were all there.  Yet, the remaining ones weren't relatives I'd known from earth. They were light beings I've known before being born into the Earth. They guided me to a ‘library.’ I place this word inside quotation marks because it was a multidimensional composition: I cannot even call it a structure. Apparently, I had a ‘job’ up there and had left it ‘briefly’ when coming to Earth because I'd needed to experience certain things and learn certain things in order to be able to continue my work. There were stair-like features, which we could move by the will of our minds. 

By the way, everything I'd learned: languages, subjects, nature observations, while being on Earth, were absolutely useful up there. 

I had then floated onto my unfinished manuscript that looked like some form of tablet except it would only appear by my mind's command. It had data from way before, but since I already knew it, I didn't even look back.  I simply stared at it. Out of where my forehead is placed now that I'm human again, appeared these strange characters/letters, round and perfect, a language I'd known seemingly eternally. By sheer thinking of these thoughts, these characters stamped themselves onto the manuscript. I cannot call these characters ‘language’ as we know it. One doesn't need to speak it or write it. It's simply a thought process. However, these thoughts I'd inserted into the manuscript had and served a great purpose, which as a Light Being I knew. 

However, back in my human body, I don't have a clue, as if there was a veil administered upon my return. 

There were many other light beings conducting similar work, and yet I knew that not every soul or light being is given such a task. Ours was a team destined to do this. Others were destined for other ‘work’. Time and space had no physicality, no validity. I'd call the whole thing as FREEDOM, the PERFECT FREEDOM, which every person, I know, aspires to, fights for, and dreams. The one thing I understood was that Aramaic and Armenian heritages hadn't happened to me just this one Earth lifetime, but several other times as well. It was as if I was in charge of moving this lineage of light beings. However, no notions of nationality, or races or gender, or political choices, or kings, or cultures held valid up there. 

Everything was filled with love and knowledge. Then, I raised my head off the ‘library’ as if by someone's gentle calling of my name; someone was telling me ‘Anna, I need for you to go back’. That moment I felt a piercing, earth-like sadness.  I found myself far from the pool and the library, but looking at the Planet earth from the space/cosmos.  A light being had risen next to me pointing at the Planet and a voice asking me ‘Look there (the planet)! What do you see?’ I said, ‘I see Planet earth and I don't want to go back. This is my home, why are you sending me back there?’ He soothingly calmed me.  It was all sensory, no touches, and no words.  

Then he asked again, with such a divine voice, an actual, physical voice, ‘Look again. What do you see NOW?’ Suddenly, I saw what the voice saw, ‘I see our planet and there are no borders dividing countries. The borders are gone!!’  He said, ‘This is why you're going back. You have a mission.’ That's how I came back. 

I had a very difficult time afterwards, trying to adjust. I was an avid reader before, but became even hungrier for knowledge, absorbing lots of information the entire time. I became more conscious of the environment, of clean air, clean water, world hunger, wars and poverty. I grew such levels of empathy that at times it's hard not to feel the pain of another human being. I kept talking to representatives of various religions and they hadn't much to say. The closest to explaining things I saw, perhaps, were most parts from the Vedas. [Editor’s Note: The Vedas are the primary texts of Hinduism.] 

I've been having out of body experiences, very sudden, usually at night, more frequent and intense than ever before. I do have certain extrasensory moments; however, I avoid working on them, or rather do not wish to get too deep into them. I do, at times, get nostalgic trying to figure out what ‘the mission’ was. But overall, it was the best thing I've ever experienced in my life here on earth.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  May 29-30, 2003

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Childbirth.  Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   Out of body experience  After giving birth to my son, I experienced sudden loss of blood.  I only had 1/3 amount of blood necessary for my body to work properly.  I went into a coma for about three hours.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  The staff calling my doctor and her returning.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was aware of being a Light Being and that my human body was merely a vehicle, a skin I could drop off and float away.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     See the text

The experience included:       Boundary

The experience included:       A landscape or city

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   See the text

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The ‘library’

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, bliss, perfection, lightness, warmth, BEING, FREEDOM

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     See the text

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No     For a mere second, for example the life I'd lived on Earth seemed nothing but a second.

The experience included:       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     There will be no borders dividing nations.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Religious institutions have no role. No form of control has any role. What we seek is within us.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     Being aware of the whole world at any given moment of the day... No limits...

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Pls read the text

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     The light itself was God... and the light itself had voice for it chose so.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   My ‘job’ ‘up there’.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Nothing really matters :)

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Pls read the text

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I do not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I did not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     Will describe once a researcher contacts me.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     Our fears.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love is simple and it only can be given, not taken...

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     Moderate changes in my life. I’m not religious, but rather have self-awareness, spirituality.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I seek for people of light.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The freedom to float with thoughts, light, compassion, love all in one.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Just some religious people and some very close people.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Instead of walking, I wanted to float. I didn't want to eat or sleep. I seriously had to readjust to the earthly life.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   Out of body experiences and intense dreams, from which I awaken with the same ‘symptoms’. At times difficult to go on to do daily tasks, for my mind is still ‘up there’.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1anna_a_nde.html