{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1anna_probable_nde_5229.html","mytitle":"Anna Probable NDE 5229","mylang":"de"}
          	        Anna Probable NDE 5229  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Anna Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2741 Anna Probable NDE 5229  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I noticed my body separating from me, as I was drawn towards a strong white light at the other end of a tunnel which itself was completely dark. As this happened I could hear and faintly perceive those who were in my vicinity. Due to gaps in my memory, I cannot recall in detail what happened, but only isolated facts, such as being welcomed by someone who was a member of my family, though I cannot be specific as to who it was, all I can remember is a part of the message he (or she) gave me. 

This Being was surrounded by light and by other people, but I could not see them well, they were like silhouettes, or shadows. I was told that I should not be there, that it was still not my time that I had to go back to those I had left on earth and solve the problems of my present and future life. I was also warned about what could happen if I committed the same act at some future time, along the lines of: 'Death could stay with you without offering the chance to come back,' and that I needed to cure the evil, which I had in my body (referring to the overdose). This was actually a warning made out of love. I could feel how the person addressing me was protecting and counseling me just like a mother scolding her child. I did not want to come back, and neither can I recall the moment when I regained consciousness, I just woke up next day and repeated to myself what I had been told, so as not to forget. I don't remember much else.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  12/06/2011

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Suicide attempt    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   An overdose.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   Just before I could approach the light.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Just before I could approach the light.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I don't know how long it lasted, but the subsequent confusion was extreme.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could just see myself surrounded with light and silhouettes, which were facing towards me.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I recall a variety of sounds passing between my unconscious mind and those who surrounded me, but I cannot recall being able to make out anything but the words of a distracted friend, a girl, saying that I should come back to them.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was a very dark tunnel.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     It was as if they came out of the light, waiting for my arrival, then communicated to me that I should not be with them, that I had to go back and 'extract the evil from my body', as well as confronting the life ahead of me. I should not place my life in danger, as 'death might get confused, and stay with me'. They spoke of my heightened sensitivity, which allowed me greater contact or perception of their messages. They spoke about a person in my life with whom I had established a connection of minds and that I should not attempt to make it a physical relationship, as we were already connected 'mentally' and that would last forever.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A bright light at the other end of the tunnel.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Wellbeing, some fear, confusion. I repeat, I did not want to return, it was as if I were being forced to.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Simply my love of life and of those around me. I was warned not to play games with it. They knew I had a fixation with death but I had a lot to come in my life, which I must come back to live and enjoy. I take it as a message of love towards me and those around me.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The fact that they told me I should not be with them and not to do it again - it was as if whoever was speaking to me was warning me that next time they would not be able to intervene for me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The next day I spoke with some friends, they were impressed and amazed, as is normal.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had read a number of different experiences and I have had another similar one, but on a smaller scale, where I just recall seeing the tunnel with the light at the end, but without going through it nor contacting anyone at the other end.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It really made me appreciate my existence here more, I truly believe we are here for some reason and I want to know what that is.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   Not near death, but I have had experiences during sleep, as if my body was conscious while I slept, and wanted to wake up, without being able to. When I do awake, I feel more tired.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1anna_probable_nde_5229.html