{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1anna_nde_4921.html","mytitle":"Anna NDE 4921","mylang":"de"}
          	        Anna NDE 4921  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Anna NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2575 Anna NDE 4921  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was standing in the hallway of my house and started to see little black dots that gradually closed in my field of vision until my heart stopped and I stopped breathing. There was a sudden break in reality and my mind began to dream. I have always been a skeptical person and look for an explanation, for this reason I say that I dreamt. I know that the mind continues to function after death.

There was a very intense light; I guess it was due to the dilation of my pupils. I dreamt of a place filled with people that I did not know, although I felt that I had a connection to them. Without speaking, they communicated information, images and strange theories. Dreams are always difficult to understand. I found myself in an incredible state of peace and relaxation. I wanted to stay there with those people that I did not know, but suddenly I found myself in front of a woman that I found familiar but I have not been able to recognize her. She had an authoritative yet sweet way about her. She was the only person that spoke to me using her mouth and gestures. She told me that I could not be there. I soon started to hear distant screaming. I begged to stay in that place but she did not allow me and showed me a path.

Soon the screams became louder and closer until I awoke on the floor surrounded by family and nurses. I have never told anyone, including my father who asks me why I said, 'Leave me here, I am very comfortable, please.' I have always been embarrassed or afraid of rejection for telling this story. They have done many medical tests that I do not understand, many wires on my body and heart. They were never able to explain that sudden death. I guess it was just a sudden death episode and nothing else.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1998

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    'tras varios experimentos, escaners y análisis, no han encontrado la explicación, fue una muerte súbita, al instante, sin dolor.'  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I think that at the point where the two realities merged. It was a long time ago and I don't remember very well.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It was like a 'pause'. The time that I was dreaming was subjectively longer than the time that I was clinically dead.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     At first my vision darkened while I was still alive. After dying, yes, I felt a bright light. People and things were very solid but blurred slight around my field of vision.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The majority of sounds that I heard were as if in stereo, inside my head, without apparent origin. For some sounds I perceived their origin but they were enveloping sounds.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I remember a tunnel. To me it appeared to be a path/tunnel, but I do not remember if I went through it or not.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     There was a lot of people that apparently knew me but I did not know them. They communicated images, ideas, theories and a lot of strange information or information that did not make sense to me; they did so without moving their mouths. Only one woman spoke moving her lips in order to tell me that I could not be there, she was familiar to me but I could not identify her.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   After total darkness I saw a point of light that in less than a second took over the entire place in an almost blinding fashion.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Un lugar muy armonioso, donde algunos incluso se podían bañar, había flores, creo que además olían, o supongo que mi mente asi me lo hacía creer.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Relaxation and peace to an extraordinary level, impossible to imagine or explain in words.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I did not experience a life review but I did learn or acquire something that has radically changed my life, but I prefer to keep this to myself. I am also more sensitive, my senses are more developed that of others around me.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     More emotionally sensitive.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I prefer not to share it. I can only say that I know I am more sensitive, to the point where I feel the mood of those around me although they may not show it physically. This is the only information that I can share.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have the ability to connect with people and understand them even if their opinions differ from mine.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   A lot of information that was difficult to understand, especially at that age, also people that I did not know but who knew me.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I am not strange or anything like that, I am more sensitive and it's true that things around me don't seem normal, but I do not want to say more.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definately not real      I was a girl who thought that everything had been a dream.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably not real      I think that it was a dream, created by a mind that is still functioning. I think that the feeling of peace was related to muscular relaxation.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1anna_nde_4921.html