{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ann_y_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Ann Y Probable NDE 4122","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ann Y Probable NDE 4122  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ann Y Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2015 Ann Y Probable NDE 4122  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was on holiday and ended up in hospital with a twisted bowel, which had been left for some considerable time, when they decided to do an emergency operation on me. All I know is that I went through a doorway into a brightly lit room and there was my father, mother and two brothers who had passed away. My father who had been very ill and in a wheelchair for the last seven years of his life and passed away at the age of sixty-two was sitting next to my eldest brother who had passed away aged sixty-six then my mum was next to him. She passed away aged seventy-five.

My youngest brother was standing sideways looking at them. (This has always troubled me) He died aged forty-two of cancer.

My father stood up smiling and happy and not a trace of illness and he said to me, 'Hello love it's good to see you,' and had his arms held out towards me when my brother looked up and said, 'What are you doing here?' To which I replied 'I've come to join you' 'Oh no,' he said, 'it isn't your time - go back.'

The second one (but I don't know in which order) was an out of body experience when I was up in the corner of the ceiling looking down thinking, 'Who is that person down there who cannot breathe?' I saw the hospital bed and heard terrible rasping sounds and realized the person who seemed to be dying was me.

Silly though it seems I had three reasons for not dying then. One was that it was my granddaughter's birthday, the other two granddaughters had just lost their other grandmother a few weeks previously and my third bizarre reason was that my husband did not know his PIN number for our bank account.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  10/07/2007

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    Twisted bowel followed by surgery and then heart failure  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   As this situation happened without any warning I did not know anything even though it had become life threatening.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was not conscious as far as I am aware.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     In the first description there was more brightness.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I remember the doorway and the brightly lit room.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My mum, dad and two brothers all of whom had passed away previously. Three were sitting down, with my younger brother looking on, and were in this brightly lit room.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   Only the brightly lit room when I stepped in.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       In the first instance I felt happy to see my family again.  In the second experience I felt worried about my family on earth and how they would cope.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Church of England

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Church of England

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I had a feeling of wellbeing and not being afraid of death anymore.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   Because I never truly believed when I have heard of this - I thought other people would not believe me.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        One was I worried that my younger brother was not sat with my mum, dad and elder brother. The other was that all people have the chance to go to a better place even my eldest brother who was an atheist.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It would be a few days after it happened and their reactions were of belief because they knew I was a down to earth person not even believing in clairvoyants etc. I also told them when my time is ready they have not got to worry about me as I will be happy and looked after by my family.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Because it was totally unexpected and really against my beliefs.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I could see everything like it was real life and I know they are up there watching out for me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I drew a sketch about six months after the event so I would always see my family as they were.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ann_y_probable_nde.html