{"name":"Iamblichhus Mysteries Of Egyptians","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1821__taylor___iamblichhus_mysteries_of_egyptians.pdf","mytitle":"Iamblichhus Mysteries Of Egyptians","mylang":"de"}
IAMBLICHUS
.• ~ ......., .. -·-
·· -- - . ON
OF THE
EGYPl'IANS, CHALDEANS, ANb ASSYRIANS.
TRANSLATED FROM THE GREEK.
~ BY
.THOMAS TAYW~.
'*
0 i. Ap•>•'l'•>-~r 'll'po~ AY'l'l'll'l..l'f01 "''P' A>.1£4rfpov 'YP"fw'· ·et'! p.tt EM"' llCll'll,&I
'11',..,..xur ~• •o>.>.wr "f"'I'" P.'~'°'"" t1>.>.' 011i., ~nor ..lo..-.~ op9w~ 'Y"W<Txfl
w1p1 Bcwr. PLUTARCH•
..
PRINTED BY c. WHITTINGllAlrf,
COLLEGE HOIJSI ;
FOR THE TRANSLATOR, MANOR PLACE, WALWORTH.
1821.
Digitized by Google
-,
Digitized by Google
INTRODUCTION.
IT appears to me that there are two descrip.·
tions of persons by whom the present work
must be considered to be of inestimable
worth, the lovers ofantiquity and the lovers
ofancient ppilosophy and religion. To the
former of these it must be invaluable, be..
cause it is replete with information derived
from the wise men of the Chaldeans, the ·
prophets of the Egyptians, the dogmas of
the Assyrians, and the ancient pillars of
Hermes ; and to the latter, because of the
doctrines contained in it, some of which
originated from the Hermaic pillars, ,
w·ete
known by Pythagoras and Plato, and were
the sources of their philosophy ; and others
are profoundly theological, and unfold the
mysteries of ancient religion with an admir-
able conciseness of diction, and an inimita-
ble vigour and elegance of conception. To
Digitized by Google
.
VI
which also may be added, as the colophon
of exce,lence, that it is the most copious,
tpe clear~st, and the most satisfactory de-
fence extant of genuine ancient theology.
This theology, the sacred operations per-
taining to which called theurgy are here
developed,'bas for the most part, since the
destruction of it, been surveyed only in its
corruptions among parbarous nations, or
during the decline and fall of the Roman
empire, with which, overwhelmed with pol-
hition, it gradu~Jly fell, and at length tot.ally
-vanished from what is called the polished
part of the globe. This will be evident to
the intelligent reader from the following
remarks, which are an epitome of what has
·been elsewhere more largely discussed by
uie on this subject, and which also demon-
strate the religion of the Chaldeans, Egyp-
tians, and Greeks to be no less scientific
than sublime. ,
.In the first place, this theology celebrates
_1:the immense principle of things as some-
thing superior even to being itself; as
exempi from the whole of things, of which
it is nevertheless ineffably the source ; and
_ ~- . ,._oigiti~..by. ogle
..
vu
doe$ not, therefore; think fit to enumerate
i_t with any triad• or order of beings. In~
deed it even apologizes for giving the ap-
pellation of the most simple of·our concep-
tions to that which is beyond all·knowledge
and all conception. It -denominates this
principle however, the one and tM ·good;
.by the former of these names indicating its
.transcendent simplicity, and by the latter
• According to this theology, as I have elsewhere shown,
in every order of things, a triad is the immediate p..Ogooy of
a mona4. Hence the intelligible triad proceeds immediately
from the ineffable principle of things. Phanes, or intelli-
gible intellect, who is the last ofthe intelligible order, is the
monad, leader, and producing.cause of a triad, which is de-
nominate_d 110IJTO<.: ""' voipot;, i. e. intelligible, axd at the 1ame
time intellectual. In like manner the extremity of this order
produces immediately ·from itself the intellectual triad,
Saturn, Rhea, and Jupiter. Again, Jupiter, who is also I.he
Demiurgos, is the monad of the supermundane triad•.
Apollo, who subsists at the extremity of the supermundane
order, produces a triad of liberated Gods. (0eoc aroXV1'oc;)
And the extremity of the liberated order becomes the monad
ofa triad of mundane Gods. This theory, too, which is the
progeny of the most consummate science, is in perfect con-
formity with the Chaldean theology. And hence it is said
in one of the Chaldean oracles, " la etJery world a triad
11'iRU forth, of 10Aicl& a monad ii the "'ling priaciple."
(IJaYTc yap '" ICOflf''I Xaf"'" rpca<.: 'It.: f'Ollat; apx.ec). I refer
the reader, who is desirous of being fully convinced of
all this, to my translation of Proclus on the Theology of
Plato.
Digitized by Google
viii ,
its subsistence as the object of desire to ,all
beings. For all things desire good. · At
th~ same time, however, i,
t asserts that these
·appellations are in reality nothing more than
the parturitions of the soul, which, standing
as it were in the vestibules of the adytum
ofdeity, announce nothing pertaining tO the
·ineffable, but only indicate her spontaneous
tendencies towards it, and belong rather to
the immediate offspring of the first God
than to the first itself. Hence, as th~ result
of this most venerable conception of the
·supreme, wheri it ventures not oniy to de-
nominate it, though ineffable, but also to
assert something of its relation to o~er
things, it considers this.as preeminentJy its
peculiµ.rity, that it is the pri:nciple of princi-
ples; it being necessary that the characte-
ristic property of principle, after the s~e
manner as other things, should not begin
from multitude, but should be collected into
one monad as a summit, and which is the
principle of all principles.
The scientific reasoning from which this
dogma is deduced .is the following. As
the principle of all things is the one, .it is
ix
necessary that the progression of bein~
should be continued, and that no vacuum
should intervene either in incorporeal or
corporeal natures. It is also necessary that
every thing which has a natural progression
should proceed through similitude.· In con-
sequence of this, it is likewise necesSary
that every producing principle should gene~
rate a number ofthe same order with itself,
viz. nature, a naturf).l number ; Mll.tl, one
tha~ is psychical (i. e. belonging to soul) ;
and intellect an intellectual number. For if
whatever possesses a power of generating,
generates similars prior to dissitflilars, every
cause must deliver its own form and charac-
. teristjc peculiarity to its progeny; and be-
fore it generates that which gives subsist-
ence to progressions, far di~tant and sepa-
rate from its nature, it must constitute
things proximate to itself according to es-
sence, and conjoined with it through simili-
tude. It is, therefore~ necessaryfrom these
premises, since there is one unity, the prin-
ciple ef the universe, that this unity should
produce from itself, prior to every thing
else, a multitude of natures characterized
Digitized by Google
x
by unity, and a number the most of all
things alliedto·its cause ; ·and these natures
are no other than the Gods.
· ·A~cording to this ·theology, therefore,
from the immense principle of principles,
in which all things causally subsist, ·ab-
• sorbed in superessential light, and involved
in unfathomable depths, a beauteous p:t:o•
geny of principles proceed, all largely par-
taking of the ineffable, all stamped with the
occult c\,laracters.of ·deity, all possessing
an overflowing fulness of good. Fromthese
dazzling suu;imits, these ineffable blossoms, ·
these divin• propagations, being, life, intel.,.
lect, soul, nature, and body depend ; monads
suspended from unities, deified natures pro-
ceeding from deities. Each of these mo-
nads, too, is the leader of a series which
extends from itselfto the last of things, and
which, while it proceeds from, at the same
time abides .in, and returns to, its leader.
And all these principles, and all their pro-
geny, are finally centred and rooted by
their summits in the first great all-compre-
hending one. Thus all beings proceed
from, and are comprehended in, the first
I
____ __ Digitiz ,byGQQgle
.
XI
being : all intellects emanaie from one first
intellect ; all souls from one first soul ; all
natures blossom from one first nature ; and
all bo4ies proceed from the vital and lumi-
nous body of the world. And, lastly, all
these great·monads are comprehended in
the first one, from which both they and all
their depending series are unfolded into
light. Hence this first one is truly theunity
ofunities, the monad of monads, the prin-
ciple of principles, the God of Gods, one
and all things, and yet one prior to all.
No objections of any weight, no argu-
ments but such as are sophistiical, can be
.urged against this most sublime theory,
which is so congenial to the unperverted ,
conceptions of the human mind, thatit can
only be·treated with ridicule and contempt
in degraded, barren, and barbarous ages.
Ignorance and impious fraud, however,
have hitherto conspired to defame those
inestimable works• in which this and many
other grand and important dogmas can
• Yiz.The Philosophical Works ofProclus, together with
th0se of Piotious, Porphyry, lamblichus, Syrianus, Amm~
oios, Damascius, Ol1mpiodoras, and Simplicius.
Digitized by Google
XU
alone be foood ; and the theology of the
ancients has been attacked with all the in-
sane fury of ecclesiastical zeal, and all the
imbecile flashes of mistaken wit, by men
whose conceptions.on the subject,,like those
of a man between sleeping and waking,
have been turbid and wild, pha:ntastic and
wnfusefi:, preposterous and vain.
Indeed, that after the great incompre·
hensible cause of all, a divine multitude ·
subsists, cooperating with this cause in the
production and government of the universe,
has always been, and is still, admitted by
all nations and all religions, however much
they may differ in their opinions respecting
the nature of the subordinate deities, and
the veneration which is to be paid to them
by man ; and however barbarous the con-
ceptions of some nations on this subject
may be, when compared with those of
.others. Hence, says the elegant Maximus
Tyrius, " You will see one according law
and assertion in all the earth; that there is
one God, the king and father of all things,
and many G-0ds, sons of God, ruling to-
gether with him. This the Greek says, and
. ~-- ··~- --·DigitizwbvGo le_
...
Xlll
the Barbarian says, the inhabitant of the
continent, and he· who dwells near the sea;
the wise and the unwise. And .if you pro-
ceed as far as to the utmost shores of the
ocean, there also there are Gods, rising very
near to some, and setting very near to
others•."
The deification, however, ofdead men,
I
· and the worshiping men as Gods, formed
no part of this theology, when it is con-
sidered according to its genuine purity.
Numerous instances of the truth of this
might be adduced, but I shall mention for
this purpose, as unexceptionable witnesses,
the writings of Plato, the ·Golden Pytha-
goric Versest·, and the Treatise ofPlutarch
• E11a &Cott; a11 E1' 7Taoa 'Y?I oµutp"'11011 voµuv Kat >..oyov, OT&
(hot; Ett; 7TUVTt.ll' {3att&AEl!t; Kat 7TUT'IP• Kat 8Eot 7TOUo&, 8E011
ra&OE<:, 111111apx_o11Ttt; Ott'• TUI/Ta Ka& o EU11v AEytt, ica& .o /3ap-
{3apot; AE')'U, Kai o 'l'll"Uf'"'T'lt: Kai o 8a>..aTrto<:, icat o uo~ot; Ka&
0 attotpot;. KflV HTI TOii t.IKEUVOll t">..8?Jt: Tat; 11io11ai:, ICflKU 8E~i. TOtt;
µev a11i11x~vrtt; ayx.011 µa>..a, TOtt; DE KaTa~11oµt11oi. Dissert. i.
Edit. Prine.
t " Diogenea Laertius says of Pythagoras, that he cAarged
Au disciplBI aot to give eqwil degree• of"'"'°"" to Ike Goda
aftd "l&etou. HerodoNI (ill.Eu,terpe) say.1 of the Greeks,
T/aal they tDOl'Blriped lleretdes two VJf.Y'• oru GI an ia111ortcl
deity, cftd '° they Merificed to Aim; arul. aaotier GI a Hero,
atid ao t"l&ey cele/,,a"Ud his #leiROf'J. lsocraie. (Encom•.He-
Digitized by Google
.
XIV
on Isis and Osiris. All the works of Plato,
indeed, evince the truth of this position,
Jen.) distinguishes between the honours of heroes and Gods,
when he speaks of Menelaus and Helena. But the dis-
tinction is no where more fully expressed than in the Greek
inscription upon the statue of Regilla, wife to Herodes Atti-
cus, as Salma.sius thinks, which was set up in his temple at
Triopium, and taken from the statue itself by Sirmondus ;
wbe.re it is said, That Ike had neither the luntowr ofa fllOTtal
ttor y~t that which was pr~ to the Gods. OvoE upa 8v11-
roir, arap ovot 8Eottftfl 0µ01a. It seems by the inscription
of Herodes, and by the testament of Epicteta, extant in
Greek in the Collection .of Inscriptions, that it was in the
power of particular families to keep festival days in honour
of some.of their own f~mily, and to give hel'oical honours to
them. In that noble inscription at Venice, we find three
days appointed every year to be kept, and a confraternity
established for that purpose with the laws of it. The first
day to be observed in honour of the Muses, and sacrifices to
be offered to them as deities. The second and third days in
honour of the heroes of the family ; between which ·honour
and that of deities, they showed the difference by the dis-
tance of time between them, and the preference given to the
other. But whereinsoever the difference lay, that there was
a dininctioa acknowledged among them appears by this pas-
sage ofValerius, in bis excellent oration, extant in Dionysius
Haiicarnass. Antiq. Roin. lib. ii. p. 696. I call, says he, the
Gods to witJtess, whose temples and altars our family has
toor1hiped with com-.on sacrifice• ; and aezt after tAe., I
call the Genii of our ancestors, to whom toe give onmpar
riµa<, the second ltonoKTB ttat to the God., (as Celsus calls
those, rar rpot1111:0VtTar riµar, the.dfle hoam&n that heltmg to
tlae lower da!motu.) From which we take notice, that the
Heathens did not conl'ound all degree. of dmne worship,
giving to the lowest object the same which they supposed to
Digitized_ll'L~. ogle
xv
but this is particularly manifest from his
Laws. The Golden verses order that the
immortal Gods be honoured first, as they
are disposed by law ; afterwards the illus-
,,.. trious Heroes, under which appellation the
author of the ·verses comprehends also an-
gels and dremons, properly so called ;· and
in the last place, the terrestrial dremons,
i. e. such good men as transcend in virtue
the rest of mankind. But to honour the
Gods as they are disposed by law, is, as
Hierocles observes, to reverence them as
they are arranged by their demiurgus and
father; and this is to honour them .as be-
ings not only superior to man, but also to
dremons and angels. Hence, to. honour
men, however excellent they may be, as
Gods,.is not to honour the Gods according
to the rank in .which they are placed .by
their Creator ; for it is confounding the
divine with the human nature, and is ·thus
acting directly contrary to the Pythagoric
be due to. the celestial deities, or the aupreme God. So that
if the distinction of divine worship will e~cuse from idolatry,
the .Heathens were not to blame for it." See Stillingfleet's
Answer· to a book entitled Catholics no Idolaters, p. 610,
613,. &c.
,
\
Digitized by Google
.
XVI
precept. Plutarch too·, in his above men-
tioned treatise, most forcibly and clearly
shows the impiety of worshiping men as
Gods*.
·" So great an apprehension indeed,"
says Dr. Stillingfieetf, "had the Heathens
of the necessity of apprcrpri,ate acts of,diui:ne
worship, that some of them have chosen to
die,·rather than tQ give.them to what.they
did not believe to be God. We have a
remarkable story to this purpose in Arrian
andCurtius+concemingCallisthenes. Alex..
ander arriving at that ~egree of vanity as to
desire to have divine worship given him,
and the matter being started out of design
among the courtiers, either by Anaxarchus,
as Arrian, or Cleo the Sicilian, as Curtiua
says ; and the way of doing it proposed,
'Oiz. by incense and prostration ; Callis..
thenes vehemently opposed it, as that whick
t11llllid ·CM{oimd the differeRCe '!f' human tnld
• See the extracts from Plutarch, in which this is shown,
in the Introduction to my translation of P\'oclus on th~
Theology of Plato.
t Answer to Catholics no Idolaters. Lond. 1676. p. 211.
l .Arrian. de Exped. Alex. I. iv. et Curt. lib. vm:
Digiti~<l(ibvCoogle
xvii
drtnne worship, wliich had been prestrved in-
ciolable among them. The worship of·the
Gods had been kept up in temples, with
altars, and images, and sacrifices, · and
hymns, and prostrations, and such like ;
/mt it is by rw means fitting, says he, for us
to confound thae things, either by lifting up
men to the honours of the Goda, or depremng
the Gods to the honmers ofmen. For if Alex-
ander would not suffer any man to usurp
his royal dignity by the votes ofmen ; how
much more justly may the Gods disdain for
any man to take their honours to himself.
And it appears by Plutarch•, that the
Greeks thought ita mean and base thing for
any:of thent, when sent on any embassy to
the kings of Persia, to prostrate themselves
before them, because this was only allowed
among them in divine adoration. · There-
fore, says he, when Pelopid3.sand Ismenias
.were sent to Artaxerxes, Pelopidas did no-
thing unworthy, but Ismenias let fall his
ring to·the groand, and stooping for that,
was thought to make his adoration ; which
" Vit. Artaxerx. lEliau. Var. Hist. lib. i. c. 21.
Digitized by Google
xviii
was altogether as good a shift as the Jesuits
advising the crucifix to .be held in the man-
darin's hands while they made their adora-
tions in the· Heathen temples in China.
Conon• .also refused to make his adoration,
as a disgrace to his city ; and Isocratest
accuses the .Persians. for doing it, because
herein .they showed that they despised the Gods
rather than m~, . by prostituting their lumnurs
to their princes. Herodotus mentions Sper-
chies .and. BuJis, who could not with the
greatest violence be brought to give adora-
tion to Xerxes, because it was agaimt the law
qftheir country to give divine hcmour to men i·
And Valerius Maximus§ says, " the Athe~
nians put Timagoras-to death for doing it ; so
strong an apprehension had possessed them,
that the manner of worship which they used
-to their G_
ods, should be preserved sacred
and inviolable." The philosopher Sallust
also, in his.Treatise on the Gods and the
World, says, " It is not unreasonable to
suppose that impiety is a species of punish-
ment, and that those who have had a know-
• Justin. lib. vi.
t Lib. vii.
t Panegyr.
§ Lib. vi. cap. iii.
Digitized by GD. gIe
.
XIX
ledge of the Gods, and yet despised them,
will in another life be deprived of this
knowledge. And it is requisite to make
the punishment ofthose who have honoured
their kings as Gods to consist in being ex-
pelled from the Gods•."
When the ineffable transcendency of the
first God, which was considered as the
grand principle in the Heathen religion by
the best theologists of all nations, and par-
tieularly by its most illustrious promulga-
tors, Orpheus, Pythagoras, and Plato; was
forgotten, this oblivion was doubtless the
principal cause of dead men· being deified
by the Pagans. Had they properly di-
rected their attention to this transcendency
they would have perceived it to be so i~­
mense as to surpass eternity, infinity, self-
subsistence·, and even essence itself, and
that these in reality belong to those venera-
_
ble natures which are, as it were, first un-
folded into light from the unfathomable
• Ka& rcoXaO'E"1C OE E&Oo' EU'"' a8E&a11 ovir: a11'111Co,. rov' yap
y11011ra' 8Eov,, rcai rcaralflpoY'JO'a11ra~, wXoyo11 El' trtp'f {J''t' ir:a&
r11c y11.,t1E"1C <rept0'8ai, ica& rove iavr"1Y {Jat1iXta' "' 8Eov' r&µ71-
t1a11rdr,, iou . 17111 O&K7111 avr"11 7l'0&710'a& T"Y 8t"11' EIC'Ftt1u11.
Cap. xviii.
Digitized by Google
xx
depths of that truly mystic unknown, about
which all knowledge is refunded into igno-
rance. For, as Simplicius justly observes,
" It is requisite that he who ascends to the
principle of things should investigate whe-
ther it is possible there .can be any thing
better than the supposed principle ; and if
something more excell.ent is found, the
same inquiry should again be made respect-
ing that, till we arrive at the highest con-
ceptions, than which we have no longer any
more venerable. Nor should we stop i:µ
our ascent till we find this to be the case.
For there is no occasion to fear that our ·
progression will be through an unsubsta·n~
tial void, by conceiving something about
the first principles which is greater and ·
more transcendent than their nature. For
it is not possible for our conceptions to
take such a mighty leap as to equal, and
much less to pass beyond, the dignity ofthe
first principles ofthings." He adds," This,
therefore, is one and the best extension [of
the soul] to [the highest] God, and is, as
much as possible, irreprehensible ; viz. to
know firmly, that by a~cribing to him the
.__ _ "- . rngitizaj_bvGo_ogle
XX.1
most venerable excellences ·we can ·con-
ceive, and the most holy and primary
names and things, we ascribe nothing to
him which is suitable to his dignity. It is
sufficient, however, to procure ·our pardon
[for the attempt], that we can attribute to
him nothing superior*." If it is not possi-
ble, therefore, to form any ideas equal to
the dignity of th~ immediate progeny of
the ineffable, i.e. of the first principles 'of
things, how much less can our conceptions
reach that thrice unknown darkness, in the
reverential language of the Egyptianst,
• Kai Xf"I TOI' nri Tar "PX"t ava/3aivovTa {,,ruv, u cwa-
. TOii Etvai Tt ~pEiTTOV T1/( 1!1r0TE8Utr'1( apx11r "'I" 111pE8?J, raXiv
er' iteiivo11 {,,riir, l'41( av iir t'CI( arporarac Evvocac 1X&iµEv,
"'" OlllCETt VEµvoTEpar ix.op.Ev' icat µ11 '>''ftrai """ ava/3a11cv.
01/CE yap E11Xa/3,,rEOI' P.'1 ICEVEµpaTuµEv, p.Et{ova Ttva ""'
1111'Ep/3atVfWTa Tac rp61ra.r apx_a9 rEpt al!f'uv evv01:1vnr. °" yap
QVJlaTOI' ""XtlCOllTOJI "~""" 'lf11C'lf7(U t'a( '11'Ef'£flllt; El'l'O•ac, 61(
rapttr61811vat T?J a~''I Tt.1>' '1Tpt.1rt.1J1 apx_uv, 011 XE'Y"' ""' ll'lf£pT-
T'JVat. µia yap av.,.,, rpor 8Eov aJ1aratrt( apt'>''I• icat ur c11J1a-
rov a11'1'Qi.,oc. icai .,,, E>'ltOl:l/J,Ell qya8uv Ta t1Eµ110T«ra, tea&
ayit.1Tara, i<u rpwro11pya., 1mi 0110µ.aTa teat '1Tpa-yµara al!f'~
avari6Evrar EtCtvat /3E/3att.1!:, on µ11cE11 avaTE6EtteaµEv a~iov.
"fl"EI Ci 11µ111 iir ""'YY""'P-'1"• ro µ1161v E)(E•v '"".,"'" wiprEpov.
Simplio. in Epict. Enchir. p. 207. Lond. 1670. 8vo.
t Of the first principles, says Damascius in MS. rtpt
apx_,,,,,, the Egyptians said nothing, but celehfated it as a
darkness beyond .all intelleetaal conception, a thrice un·
Digitized by Google
xxii
which is even beyond these ? Had the
Heathens,· therefore, considered as they
ought ·this transcendency of the supreme
God, they·would never have presumed t:o
equalize the human with the d.ivine nature,
and consequently would never have wor-
shiped men as Gods. Their theology, how-
ever, is not to be accused as the cause of
this impiety' biit their forgetfulness of the
sublimest of its 'dogmas, and the confusion
with which this oblivion was necessarily
attended.
But to return to the present work. 'ro
some who are conversant with the writings
of Porphyry, who know how high he ranks
among the best of the Plat:onists, and that
he was denominated by them, on account of
his excellence, the phiros<pher, it may seem
strange that he should have been so un-
skilled in theological mysteries, and so
ignorant of the characteristics of the beings
superior to man, as by his epistle to Anebo
he may appear to have been. That he was
not, however,- in reality thus unskilful and
known darkness. Tip"'T'JV "PX'l" av11µ.v,,ica'1n•, CJICOT~ vtrip
ruaav l'O'J""'• '11COTOt; ayv.,~o"' rpit; rovro nru~'fµ.1{ovrtt;,
rngitiz \CGoogle
•
...
XXlll
ignorant, ·is evident from his admirable
Treatise on Abstinence from Animal Food,
and his A</JopfUtl 'R'po, T« VO'JT«, or Auxiliaries to
Intelligibles. Hi.Sapparentignorance,there-
fore, must have:been assumed for the pur-
poseofobtaining a·more perfect and copious
solution ofthedoubtsproposedinhisEpistle,
than he.would otherwise have received. But
.
at the ·same time that this is ··admitted, it
must also be observed, that he was inferior
to Iamblichus in theological science, who so
greatly excelled in knowledge of this kind,
that he was not surpassed by any one, and
. was equaled by few. Hence he was de-
nominated by all ·succeeding Platonists the
divine, in the same maimer as Plato, " to
whom," as the acute Emperor Julian re-
marks, " he was posterior in time only, but
not in genius•."
The difficulties attending the translation
of this work into English are necessarily
great, not only from its sublimity and no-
• For farther particulars respecting this most extraordi-
nary man, see the introduction to my translation of his Life
of Pythagoras, and my History of the Restoration of the
Platonic Theology.
Digitized by Google
.
XXIV
velty; but also from the defects of the origi-
nal. I have, h~wever, endeavoured to
make the translation as faithful and com-
plete as possible ; and have occasWnally
availed myself of the annotations of Gale,
not being able to do so c<mtinually, because
for the most part, where philosophy is con-
cerned, he sho~s himself to be an inaccu-
rate, impertinent, and garrulous smatterer.
ERRATUM.
P. 110. Por ayratltemata, reed •yntha.ata.
Digitized by Google
THE
EPISTLE OF PORPHYRY
TO THE
EGYPTIAN ANEBO.
Porplayry to the Prqphet Anebo greeting.
I COMMENCE my friendship towards you from
th~ Gods and good dremons, and from those
philosophic disquisitions, which have an affinity
to these powers. And concerning these par-
ticulars indeed, much has been said by the
Greciao philosophers; hut, for· the most part,
the principles of their belief are derived from
conjecture.
In the first place, therefore, it is granted
that there are Gods. But l inquire what the
peculiarities are of each of the more excellent
genera, by which they are separated from each
other; and whether we must say that the cause
of the distinction between them is from their
energies, or their passive motions, or from things
B
Digitized by Google
2
that are consequent, or from their· different
arrangement with respect to bodies ; as, for
instance, from the arrangement of the Gods
with reference to etherial, but of dremons to
aerial, and of souls to terrestrial, bodies?
I also ask, why, since [a11] the Gods dwell in
the heavens, theurgists only invoke the terres-
trial and subterranean Gods? Likewise, how
some of the Gods are said to be aquatic and
aerial ? And how different Gods are allotted
different places, and the parts of bodies ac-
cording to circumscription, though they have
an infinite, impartible, and incomprehensible
power? How there will he a union of them
with each other, if they are separated by the
divisible circumscriptions of parts, and by the
difference of places and subject bodies?
How do theologists, or those who are wise in
divine concerns, represent the Gods as passive,
to whom on this account, it is said, erect phalli
are exhibited, and obscene language is used?
But if they are impassive, .the invocations of
the Gods will be in vain, which announce that
they can appease the anger of the divinities,
and procure a reconciliation with theni; and
still more, what are called the necessities of
the Gods, will he vain. . For that whicb is
impassive cannot be aJlured, .nor compeJled,
nor necessitated. How, therefore, are ~any
Digitized by Google
3
things, in sacred operations, performed to them
as passive? Invocations, likewise, ·are made
to the Gods as passive; so that not dremons
only are passive, but the Gods also, conform-
ably.to what Homer says,
" And flexible are e'en the Gods themselves.*"
But if we assert with certain persons, that the
Gods ~re pure intellects, but ,that dremons, be-
ing psychical, participate of intellect ; in a still
greater degree will pure inte11ects be incapable
of being allured, and wiU be unmingJed with
sensible natures. Su.pplications, however, are
foreign to the purity of intellect, and therefore
are not to be made to it. But the things which
are offered [in sacred rites] are offered as to
sensitive and psychical essences.
Are, therefore, the Gods separated from dre-
mons, through the former being incorporeal,
hut the latter corporeal ? If, however, the Gods
are incorporeal alone, how will the sun and
moon,·and the visible celestials, be Gods_?
How, likewise, are some of the Gods benefi-
cent, but others malefic?
What is it that. connects the Gods in the
heav~ns that have bodies, with the incorporeal
Gods?
* Iliad, lib. x. v. 493.
Digitized by Google
4
What is it that distinguishes dremons from
the visible .and invisible Gods, since the visible
are connected with the invisible Gods?
In what do a dremon, hero, and soul, differ
from each other? Is it in essence, or in power,
or in energy?
What is the indication of a God, or angel, or
archangel, or dremon, or a certain archon, or
soul being present? For to speak boastingly,
and to exhibit a phantasm of a certain quality,
is common to Gods and dremons, and to all
the more excellent genera. So that the genus
of Gods will in no respect be better than that
of dremons.
Since the ignorance of, and deception about,
divine natures is impiety and impurity, but a
scientific knowledge of the Gods is holy and
beneficial, the ignorance of things honourable
and beautiful will be darkness, but. the know-
ledge of them will be light. And the former,
indeed, will fill men with all evils, through the
want of ·erudition, and through audacity; but
the latter will be the cause to them of every
good. [I wish you, therefore, to unfold to me
the truth respecting these particulars*'.]
[And, in the first place, I wish you to explain
• Gale bas omitted to give the original of the sentence
contained in the brackets; the translation of which I ha,·e
added from the answer of Iamblicbus to this epistle.
Digitized by Google
5
to me distinctly•] what that is which is etfected
in divination? For we frequently obtain a
knowledge of future events through dreams,
when we are asleep ; not being, at that time,.
in a tumultuous ecstasy, for the body is then
quiescent; but we do not apprehend what
then takes place, in the same manner as when
we are awake.
But many, through enthusiasm and divine
inspiration, predict future events, and are then
in so wakeful a state, as even to energize
according to sense, and yet they are not con-
scious of the state they are in, or at least, not
so much as they were before.
Some also of those who sutfer a mental
alienation, energize enthusiastically on hearing
cymbals or drums, or a certain ·modulated
sound, such as those who are CorybanticaJJy
inspired, those who are possessed by Sabazius,
and those who are inspired by the mother of
the Gods. But some energize enthusiastically
by drinking water, as the priest of Clarius, in
Colophon ; others, by being seated at the
mouth of a cavern, as those who prophesy at
Delphi; and others by imbibing the vapour
from water, as the prophetesses in Branchidre.
Sonie also become e~thusiastic by standing on
• Here also the original is omitted by Gale, and the
translation of it is given by me from the text of Iamblicbus.
Digitized by Google
6
characters, as those that are filled from the in-
tromission of spirits. Others, who are con-
scious what they are doing in other respects,
are divinely inspired according to the phan-
tastic part; some, indeed, receiving darkness
for a cooperator, others certain potions, but
others incantations and compositions : and
some energize, according to the imagination,
through water; others in a wall, others in the
open air, and others in the sun, or in some
other of the celestial bodies. Some also esta-
blish the art of the investigation of futurity
through the viscera, through birds, and throDgh
the stars.
I likewise ask concerning the mode of divi-
nation, what it is, and what the quality by
which it is distinguished? All diviners, indeed,
assert, that they obtain a foreknowledge of
future events through Gods or dremons, and
that it is uot possible for any others to know
that which is future, than those who are the
lords of futurity. I doubt, therefore, whether
divinity is so far subservient to men, as not to
be averse to some becoming diviners from
meal.
But, concerning the causes of divination, it is
dubious whether a God, an angel, or a dremon,
or some other power, is present in manifesta-
tions, or divinations, or certain other sacred
r
7
energies, as is the case with those powers that
are drawn down through you [priests] by the
necessities with which invocation is attended.
Or does the soul assert and imagine these
things, and are they, as some think, the pas-
sions of the soul, excited from small incen-
tives?
Or is a certain mixed form of subsistence
produced from our soul, and divine inspiration
externally derived?
Hence it must be said, that the soul gene-
rates the power which has an imaginative per-
ception of futurity, through motions of this
kind, or that the things which are adduced
from matter constitute dremons, through the
powers that are inherent in them, and especially
things adduced from the matter which is taken
from animals.
For .in sleep, when we are not employed
about any thing, we sometimes ~btain a know-
ledge of the future.
But that a passion of the soul is the cause of
divination, is indicated by this, that the senses
are occupied, that fumigations are introduced,
and that invocations are employed ; and like-
wise, that not all men, but those that are more
simple ·and young, are more adapted to pre-
diction.
The ecstasy, also, oT the reasoning power is
Digitized by Google
•
8
the cause of divination, as is likewise the mania
which happens in diseases, or mental aberra-
tion, or a sober and vigilant condition, or suffu-
sions of the body, or the imaginations excited
by diseases, or an ambiguous state of mind,
such as that which takes place between a sober
condition and ecstasy, or the imaginations arti-
ficially procured by enchantment.
Nature, likewise, art, and the sympathy of
things in the universe, as if they were the parts
of one animal, contain premanifestations of
certain things with reference to each other.
And bodies are so prepared, that there is ·a
presignification of some .by others, which is
clearly indicated by tlie works performed in
predicting what is future. For th()se who itr-
voke the divinities for this purpose, have about
them stones and herbs, bind certain sacred
bonds, which they .also dissolve, open places
that are shut, and change the deliberate inten-
tions of the recipients, so as from being de-
praved to render them worthy, though they
were before depraved. ·No·r are the artificers
of efficacious images to be despised. For they
observe the motion of the celestial bodies, and
can tell from the concurrence of what star
with a certain star or stars, predictions•wilJ be
true or false; and also whether the things that
are performed will be inanities, or significant
__ _ • _ __ Digiti · .byG ogle _ ·...~
9
and efficacious, though no divinity or dremon is
drawn down by these images.
But there are some who suppose that there
is a certain obedient genus of dremons, which
is naturally fraudulent, omniform, and various,
and which assumes the appearance of Gods
and dremons, and the souls of the deceased ;
and that through these every th~ng which ap-
pears to be either good or evil is effected ; for
they are not able to contribute any thing to
true goods, such as those of the soul, nor to
have any knowledge of them, but they abuse,
deride, and frequently impede those who are
striving to be virtuous. They are likewise·full
of pride, and rejoice.in vapours and sacrifices.
Jugglers likewise fraudulently attack us in
many ways, through the ardour of the expec-
tations which they raise.
It very much indeed perplexes me to under-
stand how superior beings, when invoked, ·are
commanded by those that invoke them, as if
they were their inferiors ; and they think it
requisite that he who worships them should
be just~ but when they are called upon to act
unjustly, they do not refuse so to act. Though
the Gods, likewise, do not hear him who in-
vokes tli.em, if he is impure from venereal con-
nexions, yet, at the same time, they do not re-
fuse to lead any one to illegal venery.
Digitized by Google
10
[lam likewise dubious with respect tQ sacri-
fices, what utility or power they possess in the
universe, and with the Gods, and on what
account they are performed, appropriately in-
deed, to the powers who are honoured by
them, but usefully to those by whom the gifts
are offered•.]
Why also do the interpreters of prophecies
and oracles think it requisite that they should
abstain from animals,,Jest the Gods should. he
polluted by the vapours arising from them ;
and yet the Gods are especially allured by the
vapours of animals ?
W.hY is it requisite that the inspector [who
presides over sacred rites] ought not to touch a
dead body, though most sacred operatio~s are
performed through dead bodies? And why,
wh1ch is much more absurd than this, are
threats employed and false terrors, by any
casual person, not to a dmmon, or some de-
parted soul, but to the sovereign Sun himself,
or to the Moon, or some one of the celestial
Gods, in order to compel these divinities to
speak the truth? For does not he who says
that he will burst the heavens, or unfold the
• The paragraph within the ~rackets is omitted in the
original; but I have supplied it from the following answer
of Jamblichus to this Epistle. This omission is not noticed
by Gale.
Digitized by Google
11
secrets of Isis, or point out the arcanum in the
adytum, or stop Baris, or scatter the members
of Osiris to Typhon, [or that he will do some.;.
thing else of the like kind•], does not he who
says this, by thus threatening what he neither
knows nor is able to effect, prove himself to be
stupid in the extreme? And what abjectness.
does it not produce in those who, like very silly
children, are possessed with such vain fear,
and are terrified at such fictions ? And yet
Chreremon, who was a sacred scribe, writes
these things, as disseminated by the Egyptians.
It is also said, that these, and things of the like
kind, are of a most compulsive nature.
What also is the meaning of those mystic
narrations which say that a certain divinity is
unfolded into light from mire, that he is seated
above the lotus, that he sails in a ship, and
that he changes his forms every hour, accord-
ing to the signs of the zodiac? For thqs, they
say, he presents himself to the view, and thus
ignorantly adapt the peculiar passion of their
own imagination to the God himself. . But if
these things are asserted symbolically, being
symbols of the powers of this divinity, l re.
quest an interpretation of these symbols. For
• Here likewise the words within the brackets, which are
omitted in the original, are added froIQ. Iamblichus; but the
omission is not noticed by Gale. ·
Digitized by Google
. ~:
12
it is evident, that if these are similar to passions
of the Sun, when he is eclipsed, they would be
seen by all men who intently survey the God.
What also is the design of names that are
without signification? and why, of such, are
those that are barbaric preferred to our own?
For if he who hears them looks to their signifi-
cation, it is sufficient that the conception re-
mains the same, whatever the words may be
that are used. For he who is invpked is not
of the Egyptian race; nor, if he wa~ an Egyp-
tian, does he use the Egyptian, or, in short, any
human language. For either all these are the
artificial.contrivances of enchanters, and veils .
originating from our passions, which rumour
ascribes to a divine nature ; or we ignorantly
frame conceptions of divinity, contrary to its
real mode of subsistence.
I likewise wish you to unfold to me, what
the Egyptians conceive the first cause to be ;
whether intellect, or above intellect? whether
alone, or subsisting with some.other or others?
whether incorporeal, or corporeal; and whether
it is the.same with the Demiurgus, or pr:ior to
the Demiurgus? Likewise, whether all things
are from one principle, or from many prin-
ciples? whether the Egyptians have a know-
ledge of matter, or of primary corporeal quali-
,ties; and whether they admit matter to be
13
unbegotten, or to be generated? For Chrere·
mon, indeed, and others, do not think there is
·
any thing else prior to tbe visible worlds; ·but
in the beginning of their writings on this sub-
ject, admit the existence of the Gods of the
Egyptians, but of no others, except what are
called the planets, the Gods that give com-
pletion to the zodiac, and such as rise together
with these ; and likewise, the sections into
decans, and the horoscopes. They also .admit
the existence of what are called the powerful
leaders, whose names are to' be found in the
calendars, together with their ministrant offices;
their risings and settings, and their significations
of future events. For Chreremon saw that
what those who say that the sun is the Demi-
urgus, and likewise what is asserted concern-
ing Osiris ~nd Isis, and all the sacred fables,
may be resolved into the .stars and the phases,
occultations and risings of these, or into the in-
crements or decrements of the moon, or into
the course of the sun, or the nocturnal .and
diurnal hemisphere, or into .the river [Nile].
And, in short, the Egyptians resolve all things
into physical, and nothing into incorporeal and
living essences. Most of them likewise sus-
pend that which is in our power from the
motion of the stars ; and bind all things, though
I know not how, with the indissoluble bonds
Digitized by Google
14
of nec~ssity, which they call fate. They also
connect fate with the Gods; whom, neverthe-
less, they worship in temples and statues, and
other things, as .the only dissolvers of fate. .
Concerning the peculiar dremon, it must be
inquired how he is imparted by the lord of the
geniture, and according to what kind of efflux,
or life, or power, he descends from him to us?
And also, whether he exists, or does not exist?
And whether the inv~ntion of the lord of the
geniture is impossible, or possible? For if it _
is.possible he is happy, who having learned the
~heme of his nativity, and knowing his proper
d~mon, becomes liberated from fate.
The canons, also, of genethliology[or predic-
tion from the natal day] are innumerable and
incomprehensible. And the knowledge of this
mathelDJltical sc~ence cannot be obtained ; for
there is much dissonance concerning it, and
Chreremon and many others have written
against it. But the discovery of the Jord, or
lords, of the geniture, if there are more than
Qne in a nativity, is nearly granted by astrolo·
gers themselves to be unattainf:lble, a1iq yet
they say that on this the knowledge . of the
proper dremon depends.
Farther still, I wish to know whether the
peculiar dremon rules over some one of the
parts iri us? For it appears to certain persons,
-----· ___ rngitizedbvGoogle
15
that dremons preside over the parts of our
body, so that one is the guardian of health,
another of the'form ·of the body, and another
of the corporeal habits, and:· that there is one
dremon who presides in common over all these.
And again, that one dremon presides over the
body, another ov~r the soul, and another over
the intellect; a11d that some of them .are good,
but others bad.
I am also dubious whether'this dremon is not
a certain part of the soul,[such, for instance, as
the intellectual .part ;] and if ·so, he will be
happy who has a·wise intellect. .
l see likewise, that there is a twofold worship
of the peculiar dremon ; ·the one being the
worship as of two, but the ot.her as of three.
By all men, however, the dremon is called upon
·hy a common invo.cation.
I· farther ask, whether there is a certain
·other latent way to felicity, separate from the
Gods? And I am dubious whether it is requi-
site to look to human opinions in divine divi- .
nation and theurgy ? And ·whether the soul
does not devise great things from casual cir-
cumstances ? Moreover, there are certain other.
methods which are conversant with the predic-
tion of future events. And, perhaps, those
who possess divine divination, foresee indeed
what will happen, yet_are not on this account
Digitized by Google
16
happy ; for they foresee future ·events, but do
not know how to use this knowledge properly.
I wish, therefore, that you would point out to
me the path to felicity, and show me in what
the essence of it consists. For with us [Greeks]
there is much verbal contention about it, be-
cause we form a conjecture ofgood from human
reasonings. But by those who have devised
the means of associating with beings more ex:.
cellent than man, if the investigation .of this
subject is omitted, wisdom will be professed by
them in vain; as they will only disturb a divine
intellect about the discovery of a fugitive slave,
or the· purchase of land, or, if it should so
happen, about marriage, or merchandize. And
if they do not omit this subject, but assert what
is most true about other things, yet say nothing
that is stable and worthy of belief about felicity,
ill consequence of employing themselves about
things that are difficult, but useless to man-
kind ; in this ca.se, they will not be conversant .
either with Gods or good dremons, hut· with
that drernon who is c·alled fraudulent; or, if
this is not admitted, the whole will be the in-
vention of men, and the fiction of a mortal
nature.
CJigitized by Google
THE
ANSWER OF THE PRECEPTOR ABAMMON ·
TO THE
EPISTLE OF PORPHYRY TO ANEBO,
AND A
SOLUTION OF THE DOUBTS CONTAINED IN IT.
SECTION I.
CHAP. I.
HERMES, the God who presides over language,
was formerly very properly considered as com-
mon to all priests ; and the power who pre-
sides over the true science concerning the Gods
• The following testimony of an anonymous Greek writer,
prefixed to the manuscript of this treatise, which Gale pub-
lished, proves that this work was written by Iamblicbus:
lOTEOV OTI 0 '/11>..01101/JOt Ilpo11:>..o~ 111l'oµv11µan4"'v rat TOV
µE'ya>..ov Il>.."'r11,ov Evnaoat, XEyu on ·o avr1ypa'{l"'v Eg r11v
C·
Digitized by Google
18
is one and the same in the whole of things.
Hence our ancestors dedicated the inventions
of their wisdom to this deity, inscribing all
their own writings with the name of Hermes.
If, therefore, we participate of a portion of this
Go·d, adapted and commensurate to our powers,
you do well to propose your theological doubts
to the priests, as friends, and to make these
doubts known-to them. I also very properly
conceiving that the epistle sent to my disciple
Anebo was written to me, shall give you a true
answer to your inquiries. For it would not
be becoming, that Pythagoras and Plato, De-
mocritus and Eudoxus, and many other of
'lt'poKiiµn"rl" TOii Iloptf111p1011 nri<roX7111, o 6EtT'lfEt11oc E<r1v Iaµ-
:, {3X1xo<;' Kai ~'a TO T1JC ll'lt'00Et1E61C OIKEIOll Kai ·aK0Xo116011, ll'lt'OKp1-
11ETa1 '1t'po1161'1t'OV A1')'Vll'T1011 T•11oc A{Jaµ6111oc· aUa Kai ro r71c
Xi~i"'c KoµµarcKov Ka1 a~op1<r1Ko1t, Km TO T61V Ev11016111 rpayµa-
T1Ko11, Ka1 y>..a~11po11, Kai E11601111, µapr11pE1 TOii IlpoKX011 Ka>..61<;
t<a1 Kp111a11ra, ica1 1<rop7111a11ra. i. e. " It is requisite to know
that the philosopher Proclus, in his Commentary on the Enne-
ads of the great Plotinus, saJ1S that it is the divine Iamblichu.s
who answers the prefixed Epistle of Porphyry, and who as-
sumes the person of a certain Egyptian ofthe name of Abam-
mon, through the affinity and congruity of the hypothesis.
And, indeed, the conciseness and definiteness of the diction,
and the efficacious, elegant, and divine nature of the concep-
tions, testify that the decision ofProclusis just.'' That this,
indeed, was the opinion ofProclus, is evident from a passage
in his Commentaries on the Timams of Plato, which has
escaped the notice of Gale, and which the reader will find in
a note on the fourth, chapter of the eighth section of the
following translation.
rngitized_
by GoogIe_
•
19
the anci~pt Greeks, should have obtained ap·
propriate instruction from the sacred scribes
of their time, but that you who are our con-
temporary, and think conformably to those
ancients, should be frustrated of your wish by
those who are now living, and wlio are called
cc>mmon preceptors. I, therefore, thus betake
myself to the present discussion ; and do you,
.if you please, conceive that .the same person to
whom you sent the letter returns yon an answer.
Or, if it should seem fit to you, admit it to he
me who discourses with yo1,1 in writing, or
sQme other prophet of the Egyptians, for this is
of no consequence. Or, which I think is still
better, dismiss the consideration whether the
speaker is an inferior or a superior character,
but direct your attention to what is said, so.as
readily to excite your mind to survey whether
what is asserted is true or false.
In the first place, therefore, we ijhall .divide
the genera of the proposed problems, in order
that we may know the quantity and quality of
them. .· And, in the next place, we shall show
from what theologies the doubis are assumed,
and according to what sciences they are in-
vestigated. · For some things that are badly
confused, require a certain distinction ; others
are conversant with the cause through which
c2
Digitized by Google
•
20
they subsist, and are apprehended ; othera,
which we propose according to a certain con- ·
trariety, draw our decision on both sides; and
some things require from us the whole develop-
ment of mystic doctrines. Such, therefore,
being the nature of the subjects of discussion,
they are assumed from many places, and from
different sciences. For some things introduce
animadversions from what the wise men of the
Chaldeans have delivered ; others .Produce ob-
jections from what the prophets of the Egyp-
tians teach ; and there are some that, adhering
to the theory of philosophers, make inquiries
conformably to them. There are now Jik~
wise some, that from other opinions, which do
not deserve to he mentioned, elicite a ce~tain
duhitation ; and others originate from the com-
mon conceptions of mankind. These things,
therefore, are of themselves variously disposed~
and are niultiformly connected with each other.
Hence, through all these causes, a certain dis-
cussion is requisite for the management of them
in a becoming manner.
Digitized by Google
21
CHAP. II. .
WE shalJ, therefore, deliver to you the peculiar
dogmas of the Assyrians; and also clearly
develop to you our own opinions ; collecting
some things from the infinite writings of the
ancients, hut others from those particulars
which were comprehended by the ancients in
one treatise, and pertain to the whole know-
ledge of divine natures. If also you should
propose any philosophic inquiry, we shall dis-
Quss it for you, according to the ancient pillars
of Hermes, which Plato and Pythagoras knew
before, and from thence constituted their phi-
losophy. But such things as exhibit foreign
inquiries, or which are contradictory and con-
tentious, we .shall assist mildly and aptly, or
we shall demonstrate their absurdity. Such,
likewise, as proceed conformahly • to common
conceptions, we shall endeavour to discuss in
a way perfectly known and dear. 'And things,
indeed, which require the experience of divine
operations to an accurate knowledge of them;
we shall explain, as far as this is possible to
be effected by words alone ; hut such as are
• In the original Kara ra~ i:oiva~ ivvo1a~, which Gale
erroneously translates contJ"a communes opiniones.
Digitized by Google
22
fuU of intellectual theory, we shall develop
with a view to the purification of the soul.
But indications of this theory worthy of notice
may be mentioned, by which it is possible for
you, and those who resemble you, to be con-
ducted by intellect to the essence of [real]
beings. And with respect to such things as
become known by a reasoning process, we
shall leave no one of these without a perfect
demonstration. But in all things we _
shall
give to each that which is appropriate. .And
such questions, indeed, as are theological, we
shall answer theologically; such as are tbe-
urgic, theurgically ; but such as are philosophi-
cal, we shall, in conjunction with you, philo-
sophically explore. Of these, also, such as
extend to first causes, we shall unfold into
light, by following them conformably to first
principles. But such as pertain to morals, or
to ends, we shall fitly discuss, according to the
ethical mode.
. And, in a similar manner, we ·
shall examine other things methodica11y and
appropriately. I...et us, therefore, now betake
O\lrselves to your inquiries.
Digitized by Google
23
CHAP. III.
IN the first place, therefore, you say, '' it must
be granted that there are Gods.'1 Thus to
speak, however, is not right on this subject.
For an innate knowledge of the Gods is co-
existent with our very essence; and this know-
ledge is super~or to all judgment and deliberate
choice, and subsists prior to reason and de-
monstration. It is also counited from the be-
ginning with its proper cause, and is consub-
-sisteot with the essential tendency of the soul
to the good. If, indeed, it be requisite to speak
the truth, the contact with divinity is not know-
ledge. For knowledge is in a certain respect
separated [from its object] by otherness•. But
prior to the knowledge, which as one thing
knows another, is the uniform connexion with
divinity, and which is suspended from the
Gods, is spontaneous . and 'inseparable from
them. Hence;.it is not proper to grant this, as·
• Damascius 'ltEpi apx.""v says, " that difference not ex-
isting, there will not be knowledge.". And, "that the con-
tact as of one with one is above knowledge." Likewise,
"·that the intellectnal perception of the first intelligible is
without any difference or distinction. EnpoT'l/TO( µ.11 ovu11~.
,u11l'iE 'YV"""'( E<>a,, Et uv11ap11 t.1( EJIO( 'fl'PO( iv, vnp 'Y""'"'"·
Alibi, aO,aKptTO( 1/ TOii 'lfp"'1'011 V0"1TOV V01111L(,
,.
Digitized by Google
24
· le if it might not be granted, nor to admit it as
ambiguous (for it is always unically established
in energy); nor are we worthy thus to explore
it, as if we had sufficient authority to approve
or reject it. For we are comprehended in it;
or rather we are filled by it, and we possess
, "
that very thing which we are, [or by which
our essence is characterized] in knowing the
Gods.
I shall likewise say the same thing to you,
concerning the more excellent genera that·fol-
low the Gods, I mean dremons, heroes, and
undefiled souls•. For it is necessary to under-
stand respecting these, that there is always in
them one definite reason of essence, .and to
remove from them the indefiniteness and in-
stability of the human condition. It is like-
wise requisite to separate from them that in·
• Between souls that always abide on high with purity,
such ·as the souls of essential heroes, and those that de-
scend into the regions of mortality, and are defiled with
vice, such as the souls of the greater part of mankind, the
.class of undefiled ·souls subsists. These descend into the
realms'of generation, partly from that necessity by which all
human souls are, at times, drawn down to the e~th, and
partly for the benevolent purpose of benefiting those of an
inferior class. But they descend without being defiled with
vice. They are also called heroes, rcara tTX,EtTiv, i. e. accord-
ing to habitv.de, in order to distinguish them from ~8Be1&tial
heroes. And, in the Pythagoric Golden Verses, they are
denoQiinated the terrestrial heroes.
25
clioation to one side of an ·argument rather
than another, arising from thei equilibrium of a
reasoning process. For a thing of this kind is
foreign from the principles of reason and life,
and rather tends to secondary natures, and to
such things as pertain,to the power and contra-
riety of generation. But it is necessary that
the more excellent genera should be appre-
hended uniformly.
The connascent perception, therefore, of
the perpetual attendance of the Gods, will
be assimilated to them. Hence, as they have
an existence which is always invariably the
same, thus also the human soul is conjoined
to them by knowledge, according to a same-
ness of subsistence ; by no means pursuing
through conjecture, or opinion, or a syllo-
gistic process, all which originate in time, an
essence which is above all these, but through
the pure and blameless iotellections which the
soul rec~ived from eternity from the Gods, be-
coming united to them. YOU, however, seem
to think, that there is the same knowledge of
divine natures as ·of any thing else, and that
one thing, rather than another, may be granted
from opposites, in the same manner as it is
usual to do in dialectic discussions. There is,
however, no similitude whatever between the
two kinds ofknowledge. ~or the knowledge of
divine natures is different from that of other
Digitized by Google
26
things, and is separated from an opposition. It
likewise neither subsists in being now granted,
or in becoming to be, but was from eternity,
uniformly consubsistent with the soul. And
thus much I say to you concerning the first
principle in us, from which it is necessary those
should begin who speak or hear any .thing
about the natures that are superior to us.
CHAP. IV.
WITH respect to your inquiry," wltat tke pecu,..
liaritiea are in eack oftke more excellent genera,
by wkich tke9 are separated from eack other?"
if you understand by peculiarities the specific
differences under the same genus, which are
distinguished by opposite qualities, as the
rational and irrational under animal ; we by
no means admit peculiarities of this kind, in
things which neither have one common essence,
nor an equal contradistinction, nor receive a
· composition from something common, which is
indefinite, and defines the peculiarity. But if
you apprehend the peculiarity to be, as in prior
and secondary natures, differing in their whole
essence and whole genus, a certain simple con-
dition of being, definite in itself; in this case,
Digitized by Google
27
your conception of peculiarities will .be reason-
able. For these ·peculiarities of things, which
have an eternal subsistence, are simple, and
entirely exempt. The inquiry, however, pro-
ceeds imperfectly. For it was necessary, in
the first place, to inquire what the.peculiarities
are of the more excellent genera, according to
essence ; in the next place, what they are
according to power; and thus afterwards, what
they are according to energy. But, as your
question now stands, with respect to the pecu-
liarities by which these genera are separated,
you a1one speak of the peculiarities of energies.
Hence you inquire concerning the difference in
the last things pertaining to them ; but you
leave uninvestigated such things as are fu-st,
and most honourable in them, and which are
the elements of their difference. In the same
place, also, something is added concerning
" efficaciilus and paslive motions," which is a
division by no Qieans adapted to the differeoce·
of the more excellent genera. For the contra- .
riety of action and passion is not inherent in
any one of them ; but their energies are unre-
strained, immutable, and without habitude t.o
their opposites. Hence, neither must we ad-
mit in them motions of such a kind as arise
from action and passion. For neither do we
admit in the soul a self-motion, which consists
Digitized by Google
28
of the :mover and that which .is moved; but
we conceive that it is a certain simple essential
motion, subsisting from itself•, and not possess-
ing a habitude to another thing, and exempt
from acting on;and suffering from, itself. Who,.
therefore, can endure that the peculiarities of
the genera superior to the soul, should he
distinguished according to active or passive
motions?
That also which is added by you, " or of
accidents," is foreign from these genera. For
in composites, and things which. exist together
with, or .in others, or are comprehended ·by
others, some things are conceived to be prece-
daneous, but others consequent; and some as
essences, but others, as afterwards acceding to
essences. For there is a certain .coarrange-
ment of them, and incongruity and interval in-
tervenes. .But, in the more excellent genera,
all things must be conceived in T'f' Etvat, i. e. in
"m.erely existing; and wholes have a precedane-
ous subsistence, are separate by themselves,
and have not their hypostasis from, or in others ;
so that there is not ·any thing in them which is
accidental. Hence the peculiarity of them is
not characterized from accidents.
At the end, likewise, of your inquiry, you
• For avrqv cavrot' ovuav in this place, it is necessary to
read avrqv mvrfl' ovuAv.
Digitized by Google
29
introduce a distinction according to nature.
:For your queStion asks, ·" How· essences are
known by energies, by physical motions, and by
accidents r' The very contrary, however, to all
this takes place. For if energies and motions
·were constitutive· of essences, they would be
the .lords of the difference which is between
them. But if essences generate energies, the
former being separate prfor to the latter, .will
impart to motions, energies, and accidents, that
by which they differ from each other: This,
therefore, subsists contrarily to what you ·sup-
pose, for the·purpose of discovering the pecu-
liarity which you now investigate.
In short, whether you think that there is one
genus of the Gods, one of dremons, and in a
similar manner of heroes, and souls essentially
incorporeal; or whether you admit that these
are severally many, you inquire what the diffe-
rence of them is according to peculiarities.
For if you apprehend that each of these is one
[and the same genus] the whole arrangement of
scientific theology is confounded. ·But i(, as
·truth requires, you admit that they are gene-
rically distinguished, and that there is not in
them one common essential definition, but that
those of them which are prior, are exempt from
those that are inferior, it is not possible to dis-
cover their common boundaries. And even if
Digitized by Google
30
this were poS&ible, this very thing would de-
stroy their peculiarities. In this way, there-:
fore, the objectofinvestigation cannot be fouad.
H~ however, he who directs·his attention to the
analogous sameness which exists in superior
natures, as, fQr iestance, in tile maoy genera of
the Gods, and again in dremoos and heroes,
and, in the last place, in souls, will be able to
define their peculiarities. Hence through thitt,
it is demonstrated by us what the rectitude is
of the present inquiry, and what its [accurate]
-distinction, and also in what manner it is inl-
·possible, and in what manner .it is possiWe,
for it to subsist.
CHAP. V.
IN the next place, let us direct ourattentiooto
'the solution of your inquiries. There is, there-
for.
e, tke good itself which is beyond essence,
and there is that good which subsists accord-
ing to essence; I mean the essense which is
most ancient and most honourable, and by
itself incorporeal. And this is the illustrious
peculiarity of the Gods, which exists in all
the genera that subsist about them, preserving
Digitized by Google
31
their appropriate distribution and order, and
not being divulsed from it, and at the same
time being inherent with invariable sameness in
all the Gods, and their ·perpetual attendants.
In souls, however, which role over bodies,
and precedaneoasly pay attention to them, and
which, prior to generation, have by themselves
a perpetual arrangement, essential good is not
present, nor the ca.us,e of good, which is prior to
essence ; but to these a certain participation~
and habit, proceeding from essential good, ac-
cedes ; just as we see that the participation of
beauty and virtue is very different [in these
souls] from that which we behold in men. For
the latter .is ambiguous, and accedes to com-
posite natures as something adrentitious. But
the former has an immutable and never failing
establishment in souls, and neither itself ever
departs from itself, nor can be taken away by
any thing else. Such, therefore, being the be-
ginning and end in the divine genera, conceive
two media between these extreme boundaries,
viz. the order of heroes, which has an arrange-
ment more elevated than that of souls, in
power and virtue, in beauty and magnitude,
and in all the goods which subsist about souls,
and which, though it entirely transcends the
...
" For E1T'0')('1 here, I reitd µETO)('f•
Digitized by Google
32
psychical order, yet, at the same time, is proxi-
mately conjoined to it, through the alliance of
a si~ilar formed life. But the other medium,
which is suspended from the Gods, though it is
far inferior to them, is that of dremons, which is
not of a primarily operative nature, hut is sub-
servient to, .and follows the beneficent wiJJ of
the Gods. It likewise unfolds into energ'y the
invisible good of the Gods, being itself assimi-
lated to it, and gives completion to its fabrica-
tions conformahly to it. For it renders that
.which is ineffable in the good of the. Gods
effahle, iJJuminates that which is formless in
forms, and . produces into visible. reasons [or
-productive forms] that which in divine good is
.above all reason. Receiving also a connascent
·participation of things beautiful, it imparts and
·transfers it, in unenvyiog abundance, to the
genera posterior to itself. These middle genera,
therefore, give completion to the.common bond
of the Gods and souls, and cause the connexion
.of them to be indissoluble. -They also hind
together the one continuity of things from on
high as far as to the end ; make the commu-
nion of wholes to be inseparable ; cause all
things to have the best, and a commensurate
mixture ; in a certain respect, equally transmit
the progression from more excellent to inferior
natures, and the elevation from things post~rior
I
Digitized by Google
33
to such as are prior; insert in more imperfect
beings order and measures of the communica-
tion which descends from more excellent na-
tures, and of that by which it is received ; and
make all things to be familiar and coadapted to
all, supernally receiving the causes of all these
from the Gods.
You must not, therefore, think that this divi-
sion .is the peculiarity ·of powers or energies,
or of essence; nor assuming it separately, inust
you survey it in one of these. But by extend-
ing it in common through all the genera, you
will give perfection to the answer concerning
the peculiarities of Gods, dremons, and heroes,
and also of those in soµls which are now the
subjects of your inquiry.
Again, however, according to another mode
of ·considering the subject, it is necessary to
ascribe to the Gods the whole of that which is
united, of whatever kind it may be ; that which
is firmly established in itself, and which ·is the
cause of impartible essences ·; the immoveable,
which also is to be considered as the cause of
all motion, and which transcends the whole of
things, and has nothing in common with them ;
and the unmingled and the separate, understood
in common in essence, power and energy, and
every thing else of this kind. But that which
D
Digitized by Google
34
is now separated into multitude, and is able to
impart itself to other things, and which receives
from others bound in itself, and is sufficient in
the distributions of partible natures, so as to
give completion to them ; which also partici·
· pates of the primarily operative and vivific,
having communion with all real and· generated
beings; receives a commixture from all things,
imparts a contemperation to all things ·from
itself, and extends these peculiarities through·
all the powers, essences, and.energies, in itself;
all this we shall truly ascribe to souls, by ·assert-
ing that it is naturally implanted in them.
CHAP. VI.
WHAT, therefore, shall we say concerning the
media? 1 think, indeed, that from what has
been before said, they will be manifest to every
one ; for these give completion to the indivisi-
ble connexion of the extremes. Nevertheless,
it is necessary to be more explicit. I consider,
therefore, the dremoniacal tribe to be multiplied,
but, unitedly, to be comingled, but in an un.
mingled manner, and to comprehend all other
Digitized by Google
35
things of a subordinate nature, according to the
idea· of that which is more excellent. But
again, the tribe Of heroes supernally presides
over a more obvious division and multitude,
and likewise over motion, commixture, and
things allied to these. It also receives gifts of
a more exceJlent nature, concealed as it were
inwardly; I mean union, purity, a firm estab-
lishment, impartible sameness, and a transcen-
dency above other things. For one of these
middle genera is proximate to the first, but the
other to the last, of the extremes. But .it rea-
sonably follows, according to continuity of
alliance, that the medium which begins from
the ·most ex~ellent natures, should proceed to
such as are less excellent; but'that the medium
which .primarily produces a contact with the
last of things, should also in a certain respect
communicate with the natures that transcend
it. From these media, also, the completion
may be seen of the first and last genera, and
this· entirely connascent, in a similar manner,
in existence, in power, and in energy. As we
have, therefore, in these two ways, perfectly
completed the division of the four genera, we
shall deem it sufficient in the others, to exhibit
the extreme peculiarities alone, for the sake of
conciseness, and because what remains, i.e.
the· comprehension of the media, is in a certain
D2 ,
Digitized by Google
36
respect evident. But the media themselves,
as being known from the extremes, we shall
omit ; making a definition of the extremes in
the shortest way, as follows.
CHAP. VII.
OF the extremes, therefore, one is supreme, .:
transcendent, and perfect; but the other is last ,
in dignity, deficient, and more imperfect. And ·
the former, indeed, is capable ofaccomplishing
all things at once, uniformly in an ilistaµt; ~ut .
the latter is neither able to effect all things,
nor at once, nor suddenly, nor impartibly.- The
former a1so generates and governs all things,
without .being inclined towards them ; but the
latter is naturally disposed to verge, and b~
converted to the things which it generates
and governs. And the former, indeed, ·.as
primordial and1cause, precedes all things in
power; hut the latter, being suspended from
the will of the Gods, as from a cause, is from
eternity consuhsistent with it. The former,
likewise, according to one vigorous acme, com-
prehends the ends of all energies and essences ;
but the latter passes from some things to others,
Digitized by Google
37
and proceeds from the imperfect to the perfect
Fartherstill, to the former that which is highest
and that which is incomprehensible pertain,
and also that which is better than all measure,
and is in such a manner formless, as not to be
circumscribed by any form; but the latter is
vanquished by inclination, habitude, and pro-
pensity ; and is detained by appetites directed
to that which is less excellent, and by fami-
liarity with secondary natures. Hence, in the
last place, it is formalized by all various mea-
sures derived from them. Intellect, therefore,
which is the leader and king of all beings, and
which is tlie demiurgic art of the universe, is
always present with the Gods with invariable
sameness, perfectly, and without indigence,
being purely established in itself, according.to
one energy. But soul participates of a partib)e
and multiform intellect, having its attention
directed· to the government of the whole. It
also providentially attends to inanimate natures,
becoming at different times ingenerated in diffe-
rent forms.
From the same causes, therefore, order and
beauty itself are consubsistent with the more
excellent genera ; or, if some one had rather
admit it, the cause of these is consubsistent
with them. But with soul, the participation of
intellectual order and divine beauty is always
present. And with the former, indeed, the
Digitized by Google
38
measure of wholes, or the cause of this, per-
petually concurs. ·But soul is terminated by
the divine boundary, and participates of this
in a partible manner. To the· former; also;
empire over all beings, through the power and
domination of cause, may be ·reasou11bly as-
cribed. But soul has certain ·distinct bounda-
ries, as far as to which it is able' to have do·
minion. Such, therefore, being ·the diffefent
peculiarities in the extremes, it will not·be
difficult to understand what we have now said,
and to perceive the middle peculiarities of
dremons and heroes, which are allied to- each
of the extremes, possessing a similitude to
each, departing from both to the medium, and
embracing a concordant cQmmunion comingled
from them, and connected with it in .appro~
priate measures. · Such, therefore, must be
conceived to be the peculiarities of the first
divine;genera.
CHAP. VIII.
BuT .neither must we admit that cause of the
distinction of these . genera. w.hich yon .sub-
join, viz. " that it is ~n .arrangemen~ JVitk
.-fj'erence to different bodies; a8,.for i'ltSta~,
Digitized by Google
39
of Gods to etkerial bodies, but of d<.emom to
aerial bodies, qnd of souls to $Uck as are ter-
rene." For such an arrangement as this, which
resembles that of Socrates to a tribe, when
he is a senator, is unworthy of the divine
genera, because aH of them are essentially un-
restrained and.free. To which may be added,
that it is dreadfully absurd to ascrib~ to bodies
a principal .power of giving a specific distinc-
tion to the first causes of themselves. For
bodies are in servile subjection to these cau8es,
and are ministrant to generation. And.farther / ·
still, the genera of the more excellent nab;1res
are not in bodies, but the former, externally
rule over the latter. Hence they are .not
changed in conjunction with bodies. Again,
they impart from themselves to bodies every
such good as they are ab]e to receive, hut they
themselves receive nothing from bodies; so
that neither will they derive from·them cei;-tain
peculiarities. For if they were. as the habits
of bodies, or as material forms, or were in
some other way corporeal-formed, it would,
perhaps, be possible for them to' be changed
together with the ditf~reoces of bodies. But
if they are separate from bodies, andessentiaUy
preexist unmingled with them, what reason-
able distinction, produced from bodies, 'can be
transferred to them? To which also may be
Digitized by Google
40 .
added, that this assertion of yours makes
bodies to be more excellent than the divine
genera, since the former afford a seat to supe-
rior causes, and insert in them peculiarities
essentially. He, therefore, who coarraoges
allotments, distributions, and consociations of
governors with the governed, will evidently
assign a principal authority to more excellent
natures. For, because the presiding powers
are such [as we have shown them to be], on
this account they have such an allotment, and
give to it .an essential specific distinction, but
they are not assimilated to the nature of their
receptacles.
It is necessary, therefore, to admit a thing of
this kind in partial souls. For such as is the
life which the soul received, prior to its insertion
in a human body, and· such as the form which
it readily exerted ; such also is the organical
body which it has suspended from itself,. and
such the consequent corresponding nature,
which receives the more perfect life of the
soul. · But with respect to more excellent
natures, and which, as wholes, comprehend
the prindple [of parts] in these, inferior are
produced in superior natures; bodies, in incor-
poreal essences; things fabricated, in the fabri-
cators; and, being circularly comprehended in,.
,are directed and governed by, them. Hence,
rngitiz"1J__l)yGoogle . _
_
41
the circulations of the ,celestial bodies, being
primarily inserted in the celestial circulations
of the etherial soul, are perpetually inherent
in them ; and the souls of the worlds [i. e. of
the spheres], being extended to their intellect,
are perfectly comprehended by it, and are pri-
marily gen~rated in it. Intellect, also, both
that which is partial and that which is uni-
versal, is in a similar manner comprehended
in the genera that are more excellent than in-
t~llect. ,, Since, therefore, second are always
converted to .first natures, and superior are the
leaders of inferior essences, as being the para-
digms of them, hence essence and form accede
to subordinate from superior natures, and
things posterior are primarily produced iii such
as are more excellent ; so that order and mea~
sure are derived from primary to secondary
beings, and the iatter possess that which they
are from the former. But the contrary must
not be admitted, viz.,that peculiarities emanate
from things less excellent to the natures which
precede them. ,
Hence, through these things such a corporeal-
formed, division as you introduce, is demon-
strated to be false. It ,is, indeed, ~specially
necessary not to propose any thing of this
kind ; but if this should appear to you to be
requisite, yet you must not think, that w.hat is
Digitized by Google
42
.false . deserves to. be discussed. · .For such a
discussion does not exhibit a copiousness ·of
arguuieilt~; h11t be wearies himself in vain,
who,.pro.posing things th:at are false, endeavours
afterwards t.o sub.vert them, as.things that are
not true. . For how is it possible tha~ an
essence, which is of itself incorporeal, and
which has nothing in common with the bodies
that .participate of it, should be· clistingpished
·from other things by corporeal qualities? How
can that which is not locally present with
bodies, be separated bycorporetJ.l p1aces ? And
how can tbat which is not inclosed by the
partible circumscriptions of subjects, be parti-
bly detained by the paris of the world? What,
also, is that which can prevent the Gods from
being. every where? And what can restrain
t,heir power from extending as far as to the
celestial arch? For to etfect this, must h~ the
-work of a more po.werfu) cause, which is able
to. ·inc]ose and circumscribe them in certain
parts~ But .truly existing being, and which is
essentially incorporeal, is every where, where-
ever. it may .wish to be. And that which is
divine~ arid .which transcends all things, would
[if what you say were admitted) be transcended
·by the perfection of the whole world, and, as
a certain ,part, would be comprehended by it.
Heece, it would be inferior to corporeal magni-
Digitized by Google
43
tude... I do not, hcnv~ver, see .after what man·
ner thftie sensible natur~ oould be produced
and specifically distinguished, if there was ·no
divine fabrication, and if.no participation of
divine . forms,. extended· through the whole
world.
ID shor·t, ·this opiDwn wholly subverts sacred
institutions, and the thturgic communion of the
Gods with men; since it exter1;11inates from the
earth the presenceof the more excellent genera.
For it says nothing else than that divine dwell
remote from earthly D8.tures, and that this ·our
.place of abode is deserted by them. · Accord-
ieg·to this assertion, therefore, neither can we,
that are pr~sts; learn any thing from the Gods,
.nor do you rightly inquire ·of us, ·as knowing
,more than others, since we shall· ditfer in no
respect "from other·men.·
No one, however, of these assertions is·sane.
For neither are the Gods detained in certain
parts of the world, nor are terrene natures
destitute of their providential attention. But
the divinities are characterized by this, that
they are not comprehended by any thing, and
that they comprehend all things in themselves,
But terrestrial natures possess.their existence
·UJ. ~e plerO'llUJS• of the Gods; and when.,tbey
become adapted to divine participation, ~hen
• Viz. In the plenitudes, or total perfections, of the Gods.
Digitized by Google
44
prior to their own proper essence, they imme-
diately possess the Gods, which [latently] pre-
existed in it.
Through these things, .therefore, we have
shown that the whole of this division is false ;
.that the method [employed by you] of investi-
gating peculiarities is irrational ; and that to
suppose the government of the Gods is fixed in
a certain place, is by no means to apprehend
the whole essence and power which is in them.
It would have been proper, therefore, to have
omitted ·the .opposite inquiry made by you~
about this distribution of more excellent na-
tures, as not contradicting in any respect true
conceptions. Because, however, it is necessary
rather to direct the attention to true science,
but not to dispute with men, on this account, .
we also shall adapt the present inquiry to a
certain rational and theological apprehension.
CHAP. IX.
I CONSIDER you, therefore, as asking, for it fas
your inquiry, u Wk!J, since the Gods dwell in
the heavens alone, there are invocations b!J tlteur-
gists ofterrestrial and subterranean Gods?" For
Digitized by Google
what you assert in the beginning is- nc>t true,
that the Gods circumvolve in the heavens alone:
since.al_l things are full of them. You also in-·
quire, " How some of the Gods are said to be
aerial, and dijferent Gods a-re allotted dflferent
pkices, .and circumscrihed portions qf bodies,
though they possess i7tfinite, impartible, and in-
comprekensible power? .And how, likewise, there
will be a union of tkem with each other, as they
are separated· by divisible circttmscriptions of
parts, a1Kl by difference of places a1Kl subject
bodies?" Of all these, therefore, and an infinite
number of other similar questions, one and the
best s()lution will be obtained by surveying the
mode of divine alJotment.
A divine . nature, therefore, whether it is
allotted certain parts of the universe, such as
heaven or e~rth, or sacred cities and regions,
or certain groves, or sacred statues; externally•
illuminates all these, in the same manner as
the sun externally irradiates all things with his
rays. Hence, as light comprehends the things
which are ilJominated by it; thus also the
power of the _
Gods externally ·comprehends
its participants. As, likewise, the ·solar light
· is present with the air in an unmingled man-
ner ; but this is manifest from no light being left
· • i.e. Without habitude, proximity, or alliance to the
things which it illuminates.
Digitized by Google
46
in the air* when once that which.illuminated it·
has·departed, though.heat. is stilt present with ·
it, when that which heated.it is entirely with-:
dmwn ; thus'ruso the light ofthe Gods illumi-
nates. separately, and being firmly estahlisbed
in itself, .
:whoUy. pt'Oceeds through all beings•.
.
Moreo-rer,.the. light ·which is the object of sen-'
sible perception, is .one,.cGotinuous, and every ·
wh@re the.samej-wbole; sG that it is·not possible
fGr any part .of it to be separate and· ct1t off·.
from the whole, n-0r to be inclosed in a cirde, .
nor at any time to depart·from its illuminating
sowce. After the · same manner, thereforei ·
. the· whole world being partible, is· divided'.
about the one and inipartible light of the Gods.:
But.this light is eYery where orie and the same
whole,.end;is impartibly present with all things
that are: able to partieipate of it; through.· an·
au perfect power fills all things, and by a cer-.
tain causal: comprehension, inclo&-es and termi-·
nates the whole .of things in itself, -and is every·
where united· to itself, and conjoins ends to·
beginnings.. · This too, all heaven and the world·
.imitating, revolve with a circular motron, ·are
united. to the111selves, and· lead the elements
which are carried round in a circle.· Hence
the world causes all things to be in each otlu~r;
and to tend to each other, makes the end Qfone
thing to coalesce with the begjrining of another,
Digitized by Google
47
.
as, for instance, ·earth with liea.veo,: and pro-
do~· one connexion and concord ·of wholes
with wholes.
WiU not, therP.fore, he who ·surveys this·con-
spicuous statue of the Gods, thus united to
it.self, be ashaiµe4 to have·a ditferent ·opiaicm:
of the Gods~ who are the causes ofit, so as to
introduce among them sections, and sepan-
tions, .a.ad corporeal-formed circumscriptioBS?
I, indeed, should think, that every one would·
be thus disposed. For if there is no ratio, no
habitude of symmetry, no communion of es~
sence, nor a connexion either in capacity or in
energy, between ~ha~ w~ich is adorned and the
adorning cause ; if this be the case, there will
neither be found ill the world a·certain ·exten._
sion according to intenal~ nor local. compre-
hension, nor partible interception, nor any other
such like connascent equalization in the pre-
sence of the Gods [with. mundane natures].
For in •things which are of a kindred natu11e,
according to- easence and power, or which· are,
in a certain respect, of the. same· species; ·or
homogeneous~ a certain comprehension; or con;.
servation, may be discovered~ But in such
things as are entirely. exempt from all mundane
wholes, what opposing circumstance, or tran·
sition through all things, ·or j>artible circtim-
scription, or local comprehension, or any·thing-
Digitized by Google
48
else:of this kind can· justly be perceived'? I
think,.therefore, that the several participants
of the divinities are of such a nature, that
some partake ofthem etheria1ly, others aerially,
and others aquatically; which also, the art of
divine works perceiving, employs adaptations
and invocations, conformable to such a division.
· And ,thus much concerning the distribution of
the more excellent genera into the world.
CHAP. X.
AFTER these things, you again subjoin another
d.
ivision for yourself, " in which '!1()1/, separate
the ·essences of.the more eX.cellent genera /Jg the
difference ofpassive and impassive." But neither
do I admit this division.· .For no one of the
. '
more excellent genera is passive, nor yet im·
passive in such a way as to be contradistin-
guishoo from. that which is passive; nor is
naturally adapted to receive passions, but libe-
rated from them through virtue, or some other
worthy condition of being. But because they
are entirely exempt from the contrariety of
action and passion ; and because they are not
at all adapted to suffer, and have essentially an
Digitized by Google
49
ilninutable firmpess, 90 this accou.n~ I place
the impassive and the immutable in all th.~
«Jivine genera.
. For consider, if you are willing, ~he last of
divin~ natures, viz. asQul purely libe1·ated from
bodies. What does such a soul want with the
g~ratif\R ·lJhic.h _i~. i~ plea~ure, or the restitu-
tion which is in it to a natural condition, since
such a soul is above nature, and liv.es an un-
begotten life? Why, also, should it participate
of the pain which leads to corruption ~ad dis-
solves the harmony of the body, since it is be-:
yond all body, and the nature which is divided
about body, and is entirely separate from the
harmony which descepds from the soul into
the body? But neither is it in want of the
passions which precede sensation : for neither.
is it detained in body, nor iuclosed by it, so as
to require corporeal organs, in order to appre-
hend certain other bodies which are external ·
to these organs. And, in short, being imparti-
ble, and abiding in Onf' and the same form, and
also being essentially incorporeal, and ~aving
no communication with a generated and. pas-
sive body, it cannot. suffer any thing either
according to division, or according.to a change
in quality, nor can have any thing which is
allied to any kind of mutation or passion.
But neither does the [rational] soul, when it
E
Digitized by Google
50
accedes to body, ·either ·itself suffer, or the
reasons which it imparts to the body. For
these reasons are forms, and being simple and·
uniform, they receive no perturbation in ·them-
selves, and no departure from their proper
mode ·of subsistence. That which remains,
therefore [or the participant (\f the- -ratimor.il
soul], becomes the cause of suffering to the
composite. Cause, however, is not the same'
with its effect. Hence, as soul is the first
origin of generable and corruptible composite-
animals, but is itself by itself ingenera:ble and
incorruptible ; thus, also, though the partlci-
.pants of the soul suffer, and do not wholly
[i. e. truly] possess life and existence, but are
complicated with the indefiniteness and diver-
sity of matter, yet the soul is itself by itself
immutable, as being essentially more excellent
than that which suffers, and not as possessing
impassivity, in a certain . deliberate choice,
which verges both to the impassive· and the
passive, nor as receiving an adscitious immu-
tability in the participation of habit or power.
Since, therefore, we have demonstrated that
it is impossible for even. the last genus of the
more excellent order of beings, viz. the soul,
to participate of suffering, how can it be proper
to adapt this participation to dremons and
heroes, who are perpetual, and the ~ttendants
Digitized by Google
of the Gods, and who always invariably pr&
serve the same divine order, and never desert
it? For we know this indeed, that passion is
something disorderly, confused, and unstable,
never having any proper authority of its own,
but being devoted to that by which it is de-
tained, and to which it .is subservient for the
purposes ofgeneration. This, therefore, rather
pertains to some other genus, than to that
which always exists, and is suspended from
the Gotls, and whicb,.in conjunction with them,
observes the same order, and accomplishes the
same period. Hence dremons are impassive,
and all the more excellent genera which follow
them [and the Gods].
CHAP. XI.
" How tkerefore," you ask, " are maay tking1
perfonned to them in sacred opera(ions, as ij' llle!J
were passive?" ·I reply, that this is asserted
through an ignorance of sacerdotal mysticism.
For of the things which are perpetually effected
in sacred rites, some have a certain arcane
cause, and which is more excellent than reason ;
others are consecrated from eternity to the
E2
Digitized by Google
52
superior genera, as symbols; others preseive:a
certain other image, just as nature, which is
effective of invisible reasons, expresses certain
visible formations; others are adduced for the
sake of honour, or have for their end some
kind of similitude, or familiarity and alliance;
and some procure what is useful to us, or in a
certain respect purify a.nd liberate oar huma~
passions, or avert some other of t.hose dire
circumstances which happen to us. It must
· not, however, be on this account granted, that
a certain portion of sacred institutions is em-. '
ployed .in the service of Gods or dremons, as if
they ~ere passive. For an essence whicn is
by itse1£ perpetual and incorporeal, is not natu~
rally adapted to receive a certain mutation
from bodies.
Nor, even though we. should admit that this
essence is especially in want of such things,
will it require the aid of men to a sacred
worship of this kind; since it is itself.filled
from itself, and from the nature of the world;
and the perfection which is.in generation; apd~
if it be lawful so to speak, prior to being ht
want it receives the self-sufficient,· through the
never failing wholeness of the world and its
own proper plenitude, and because all the
more ..excellent genera are full of appropriate
good.· Let this, therefore, be a lenitive for us
rngitized..2\'Google
.in common, concerning the worship of the uilde-
iiled genera~ :as·being appropriately coadapted
~ the beings that are more excellent than we,
3nd beca\1s.e pure things are introduced to
. pure, and impassive things to- impassive, na..
tures. · '
- But directing our attention to particular$;
we· say that the erection of the phalli is a cer-
tain sign of prolific power, which, through this,
is.called forth to the generative energy of the
world. On which account, also, many phalli
are.consecrated in the spring, because then the
whole world receives from the Gods the p9wer
which is productive of all generation. But I
am of opinion, that the obscene language which
then takes place, affords an indication of the
·privation .of good about matter, and of the de-
formity which is in material subjects, prior tQ
their being adorned. :For these being indigent
of ornament, by so much the more aspire after
it, a~ they in a greater degree despise their own
deformity. Again therefore, they purs·ue the
causes of forms, and of what is beautiful and
good, recognizing baseness from base language.
And thus, indeed, the thing itself, viz. turpi:;.
tude, is averted, but the knowledge of it is
rendered manifest through words, and .those
that employ them transfer their desire to that
which is contrary to baseness.
Digitized by Google
54
Another reason, also, of these things may be
assigned. The powers of the human passions
that are fo us, when they are entirely restrained,
become more vehement ; but when they are
called forth into energy, gradually and .com-
mensurately, they rejoice in being moderately•
gratified, .are satisfied ; and from hence, be-
coming.purified, they are rendered tractable,
and are vanquished without violence. On this
account, in comedy and tragedy, by surveying
the passions of others, we stop our own pas-
sions, cause them to be more moderate, and
are purified·from them. In sacred ceremonies,
likewise, by certain spectacles and auditions
of things base, we become liberated from the
injury which· happens from the works effected
by them t. Things of ~iS' kin~, therefore, are
introduced for the sake of_our soul, and of the
diminution .of the evlls · which· adhere to it
• What is here asserted by lamblichus is perfectly true,
and confirmed by experience, viz. that the passions, when
moderately gratified, are vanquished without violence. But
Gale, not understanding this,· says, " Hoc adeo verum est,
ac si dixiS11et, ignem extingues, oleum addendo camino."
For a moderate gratification of the ,passions does not re-
semble the pouring of oil on fire ; since this similitude is
only applicable to them when they are immoderately in-
dulged.
t See my Dissertation on the Eleusinian and Bacchic
Mysteries.
I
Digitized by Google
through generation, and of a solution and lib~
ration from its bonds. On this account, also,
they are very proper]y caJled by Heraclitus
remedies, as healing things of a dreadful nature,
and saving souls from the calamities with which
the realms of generation are replete.
CHAP. XII.
-
Yo'(f also say, "tAat invocations are directed to
lke Gods as to beings t/w,t are passive, so that
""" 01il!J dt.em<mS are passive, but likewise tke
·Gods." This~ "however, is not the case. For
the illumination which t.akes place through in-
vocations, is spontaneously l'isible and self-
perfect; is. very remote from all downward
attraction; proceeds into visibility through di-
vine energy and perfectio~ and as much sur...
passes our voluntary motion as the divine will
-Of tke good transcends a deliberately chosen
life. Through· this ~ill, therefore, the Gods,
being .benevolent and propitious, impart their
light to theurgists in unenvying abundance,
calling upwards their souls to themselves, pr<>-:·
curing them a union with themselves, and
accustoming them, while they are yet in body,
Digitized by Google
to ·be separated fro·m ·bodies; and to be led
round to their eternal and intelligible prin-
ciple.
But it is ev.ident, from the effects themselves,
that what we now say is the salvation of the
soul., For the soul in contemplating blessed
spectacles, acquires another life, energizes ac-
cording to another energy, and is then rightly
considered as no longer ranking in the order of
man. Frequently, likewise, abandoning her
own life, she exchanges it for the most blessed
energy of the Gods. If, therefore, the ascent
through invocations imparts to the.priests puri-
·fication from passions, a liberation from·gene-
·ration, and a union with .a divine principle,
·how is it ·possible to connect with it any thing
of passion? For an invocation of this kind
does not draw down the impassive .and pure
Gods, to that which is passive aµd impure ;
but, 9n the contrary, itrenders us; who have
become passive ·th1·ough generation, pure ·and
immutable.
· Neither do the. invocations which implore
the Gods to incline to us, conjoin the priests to
·thein th.rough passion ; but procure for· th.
em
'· the.communion of an indi!lisoluble connexion,
through the friendship which binds all things
together. Hence,· it does not, as the ·name
seems to imply, incline the intellect of the
Digitized by Google
57
Gods :tc. men; but, according to the decisioil
of truth, renders the will of :man adapted to
1he :participation of the Gods, elevates it to
1hem~ and coharmooizes the former with ·the
latter, through the most appropriate persuai-
sion. On this account also, such names of the
Gods as are adapted to sa~red concerns, -and
other diviqe symbols, are able, as they are of
an ·anagogic -or elevating nature, to connect in-
vocations with the Gods themselJ"es.
CHAP. XIII.
·MeBEOVER, "the p<Ui.fications of -
anger" will
become·manifest, if we .understand what the
·anger of the Gods is•. This, therefore,-is not,
·as it appears to be to some, a certain anci~Qt
.and invet-erate rage, but an abandonµient of
the-beneficent care of the Gods, from which we
turn oureelves away, withdrawing, as it were,
. • In the.original, Ka, o,,, ""' " ai T'I' µ11vioo' E£i>.:ao:ti,"
~aovrai aat;ii,, tav T'IV fl-'I"'" TlJV OEIJV Karaµa81Jµtv, which
Gale most erroneously translates as follows: " Sed et ratio
.possit reddi supplicati01&11m, quibus divinam iram procura-
mu, si recte intelligamus, qualis sit deorum ira.".
Digitized by Google
from meridian light, hiding onrselves in ,dark-
ness, and depriving orirselvas :Of the ·beneficent
gift of the Gods. Hence·patijicatWit_is •able
to convert us to the participation of diYinity
and the providential care of the God8, from
which we were divulsed, and to bind together,
commensurately, participants and the partici-
pated natures. So far, therefore, is pacification
from accomplishing its work through passion,
that it separates us from .the passive and
tumultuous abandonment of the Gods.
But " the oblation of victims," when some
evil is present in places about the earth, pro-
cures a remedy for the evil, and secures us
from the incursion of any mutation or passion• .
Hence, whether a thing of this kind is effected
through Gods or d~mons, it invokes these as
the expeHers of evil, and [our true] savioVl'S,
and through.them extenninates all the iDjury
whi~h may accede from the calamities.. Those
powers, also, who avert genesiorgic• altd physi-
cal punish11_1ents, do not expel them through
passions. And if some one should think that
the suppression 'of the guardian care of the
Gods, introduces a certain spontaneous injury,
in this case the persua8ion arising from paci-
. • V'iz. PWiilihments produced by the realms of genera-
tion, or the sublunary region. '
Digitized by Google
59
fication Tecalls the benevoJence of the more
excellent genera, to a providential atte~tion to
our 'affairs, and takes away our privation of
·good, being it.self perfectly pure a,nd 1mmu•
table.
CHAP. XIV.
FARTHER still, with respect to "wluit are called
tie 1wcessiti6s oftlte Gods,'' the whole truth of
this is, that neeessities are peculiar to, ·and
subsist in such a W:3Y as accOTdS with the nafore
of, the Gods"". Hence thev do not subsist as
. ' . . .
if. they were externally derived, or were the
effect of viCJ>lepce, but after.such a.manner as
the.good ought to be from necessity, 8o the
.Gods entirely exist, a'nd are by n.o means·other-
wise disposed. . This necessity, therefore, is
mingled with beneficent will,.and is the friend
of love:; through an order adapted to the Gods,
possesses· identity and immutability; and : b~
.cause it is contained in .oo·e boundary, abides
in this, and never depart.s from· it. . Hence, ·
• It is well observed by Proclus, " that divine necessity
concurs with the divine will." 0ua avayK'1 l1'11vrptx.u ·ry
6n'I /3011>..,,,,.u. Prod. in Tim. lib. t ·
Digitized by Google
•
60
·through' all ·these particulars, tile contrary to
what you infer takes ·place. For it happens
that a divine nature is incapable ·of ·being
allured, is impassive an~ uncompelled, if.there
are in reality such powers in theurgy, as we
have demonstrated there are.
.,
CHAP. XV.
. ,,
' .
AFTE·R this, you pass on ·to ~!iother..divisioa
into .contraries, viz. the division :of Gods witt..
·reference.to dremons. For ·you :say, ~'that tie
Gods filre pure intellects;" but you propos.e this
·opinion as an hypothesis, or you narrate it as
a; dogma adopted by certain persons. And
-you infer,." that dd!mons ai·e psych,ical 'l!S$1MCeS
participatmg ·of intellect." Neither, therefore,
am·I ignorant .that this is the opinion of many
philos.ophers ; but to you, I do not.think.it ·is
proper to 'Conceal what appears to me to be
the truth. For all ·such opinions· are full of
confusion; since ·they wander from: dremons
to souls, . which also participate of intellect~
and from the Gods to an immaterial intellect
in energy, which the Gods entirely excel by a
priority of nature. Why, , tberefo~e, is it re-
Digitized. by GoogIe
61
quisite to attribnte. to them these pe~uliaritie&,
which are by no means appropriate?. Aud
thus much concerning this division, for.it wc>•d<l
be supe1'fluous t~ make.any further mention of
it.. But it is req·uisite that your doubts re-
specting this distinction should be properly
considered, as ·the discussion of them pertains
to the sacerdotal province.
Farther still, having said·" that pure imellecls
are i1ifl,exibk, [i. e. not·to be changed or altered]
and unmingled witk sensibles," you doubt,
" wkether.it is requisite to pray to tkem.:' But
I think it is necessary .to pray to no others.
than these. For that in us which is divine, .in..
te1lectual •, and one, or intelligible, if you are
willing so to call it, is most clearly excited in
prayer; and, when excited, vehemently seeks
that which is·similar to itself, and becomes
copulated to perfection itself: .But if it should
appear to you to be incredible, that an incor-
poreal nature can be capable of hearing sounds,
and it should be urged by you, that for this
purpose the sense of hearing is requisite, that
it may apprehend what is said by us in prayer;
you willingly forget the excellency of primary
causes; which consists in both knowing .and
• For 11of1To11 here, it is obviously necessary to read Yot{1Cv.
Digitized by Google
•
62
comprehending in themse)ves atonce the·whole
of· things. The Gods, therefore, do not receive
prayers in thelil11e)ves, through any corporeal
•
·lJOwers or organs, but rather'contain in them'f
selves ·the energies of pious invocations ; and
especially of such as, through sacred cer~mo­
nies, are established ··in, and united to, the
Gods. For then, in reality, a divine natlJre i•
present with.itself, and does uot communicate
with the intellectual conceptions in prayer, as
different from i.ts own. . '
. "Supplicati<>ns, Jwwever," you say, " are too
foreign to tlte purity of intellect to be <1fered to
t/ie G.
ods." But this is by no means the case.
For on this very account, because we fall short
of the Gods in power, purity, and eyery thing
else, we shall act in the most opportune man•
ner, by 'invoking them with the most vehement
supplications. For the consciousness.of our
own nothingness, when we compare ourselves
with .the Gods, ~auses us to betake ourselves
spontaneously to suppliant prayer. But from
supplication, we are in a.short time led to the
.object of supplication, acquire its similitude
· from intimate converse, and gradually obtain
divine perfection, instead ofo.ur own imbecility
and imperfection.
If, indeed, it is considered that sacred prayers
Digitized by Google
63'
are sent to men &om the Gods themselves,
that thE!y are certain symbols of the divinities,
and·tbat they are only known to the Gods, wi\h
whom, in .a certain respect, they possess the
·same power,-how can it any longer be justly
apprehended, that a supplication of this kind is
sensible, and not divine and intellectual ? Or
what passion can accede to a thing of this kind,
the purity of which the most worthy human
manners cannot easily equal?
You say, howeve~. " tllat tke tkings wkick
are offered in supplications are offered as to
aensitive and psychical natwres.'' And, indeed, '
if the offerings consisted ofcorporeal and com-
posite powers alone, or of such things as are
merely subservient to corporeal organs, your
assertion would be true. But as the offerings
participate of incorporeal forms, of certain rea·
sons, and more simple measures, the aptitude
of them is to be surveyed according to this
alone. And if a certain alliance, or similitude,
is present, which is either proximate or re-
mote, it is sufficient to effect the oontact of
which we are now speaking. For there is not
any tking wki.ck in tke smallest degree is adapted
toliteGods, to wliick tke Gods are not immediately
present, a~ wit/,, wkick tkey are not conjoi'/16d,
The connexion, therefore, of snpplicatiom1 with
the Gods, is not at: with sensitive or p~ychi,s:al
'
•
Digitized by Google
-·
. 64
natures, .but as with divine forms, and with the.
Gods themselves [as Gods, i.e. as *1Uperessen-
ti1" hyparx~s]. · So that we have. sufticiently
spoken in opposition to this division.
. ) .
CHAP. XVI.
THE difference which separates " Gods from
W:emons lJy the corporeal and incorporeal," is the
next thing that follows in what you have written;
this being much more common than .the former
ditference, and yet it is so far from expressing
the peculiarities .of their essence, that it does
not afford a conjectural knowledge of them,
·Dor of any accidents .which pertain to them.
For .neither is it possible from these things-to
apprehend whether they are animals or not,
and whether they are deprived of life, or are
not at all in want of it. Farther still, neither
is it easy to con,J~cture how these name.
s are
predicated, whether in common, or of many
different things. , For ifin common, it is absurd
that a line and .time, God and dremons, fire
and water, should be under the same incor-
poreal genus. But if of many things, what
reason is there when yon speak of the iucor-
Digitized by Google
65
poreal, tliat you should rather manifest·by it
Gods than points; or.when you speak of the
corporeaJ, that you shouid not be thought to
speak of the earth rather than of dremons?
For neither is this very thing defined, whether
Gods and dremons have bodies, or .are' carried
in bod)es, as ·in a vehicle, or use·them, or com-
prehend them, or are alone the same• with body.
But, perhaps~ it is not proper to examine this
distinction very minuteJy. For you do not
propose it as your own decision, but you ex-
hibit it as the opinion of others•.
.CHAP~ XVII.
WE will exchange, therefore, this division for the
doubt which may be adduc.ed by :you against
the present opinion. " For," ·it \nay be said
by you, "how, 'conformdbly to what we assert,
can the s-µn and moon; and tke visible natures in
the heavens, be Gods, if the ·Gods are alone in-
corporeal ?" To this we reply, that the celes-
tial divinities are not comprehended by bodies,
but contain bodies in their divine lives and
•For roVTo here, it is necessary to.read raVTo.
F
Digitized by Google
energies; that they are not themselves con-
verted to body, but they have a body which
is converted to its divine cause; and that body
does not impede their intellectual and incor-
poreal perfection, nor occasion them any mo-
lestation by its intervention. Hence it does
not require an abundant attention, but follows
the divinities spontaneously, and after a certain
manner, self-motively, not being iq want of
manual direction; but, through an anagogic
tendency, being itself uniformly coelevated by
itself, to tke one of the Gods.
It may alsot if requisite, be said that a celes-
tial body is most allied to the incorporeal
essence of the Gods. For as the latter is one,,
so the former is simple; as the latter is imparti-
ble, so the former is indivisible• ; and as that is
immutable, so this is unchanged in qualitY.
If, likewise, it is admitted that the energie~ of
the Gods are uniform, a celestial body also,,
bas one circulation. To which may be added,
that it imitates the sameoess of the Gods, by a
perpetual motion, which is invariably the same,
and which subsists according to one ,reason
• For as. a celestial bodJ. consists of light so pure and
simple, that, compared with a terrestrial body, it may be said
to be immaterial; hence, like the light of the sun, it cannot
be divided, or in other wordS, one part of it cannot be sepa-
rated from another.
Digitized by Google
67
and one order. It also imitates a divine life,
by the life which is connascent with etherial
bodies. Hence, this celestial body does not
consist of things contrary and different, as is
the case with our body; nor does the soul of
the celestial Gods coalesce with the body into
one animal from two things ; but the celestial
animals of the Gods are entirely similar and
counited, and are throughout wholes, uniform,
and incomposite. For things of a more excel-
lent nature are always transcendent in them~
after the same manner ; and things of an in-
ferior nature are suspended from the dominion
of such as are prior, yet so as never to draw
down this dominion to themselves. But all
these are congregated into one coarrangement
and perfection ; .and, after a certain manner,
all things in the celestial Gods are incorporeal,
and wholly Gods ; because the divine form .
which is in them predominates, and inserts
every where throughout one total essence.
Thus, therefore, the visible celestials·are .all of
them·Gods, and after a certain manner incor-
}>oreal.
F2
Digitized by Google
68
CHAP. XVIII.
YouR next inquiry doubts, " how 9ome of the
Gods are beneficent, hut others maiefi,c." This
opinion, therefore, is assumed from the pre-
dictors of nativities. It is, however; entirely
remoie from the truth. For aH the Gods ·are
good, and invariably the causes of good ;·and
all of them are uniformly convolved ,to one
good,. according to the beautiful and·goocl atone~:
· The bodies, likewise, which are subject · to
them possess immense powers; some··o( which'
are firmly established in the divine bodies tbern-
selves, hut others proceed from them into the
nature of the world, and into the world itself,
descending in an orderly manner through the
. whole of generation, and extending without
impediment as far as to things which have a
partial sub~istell<!e"
With respect to the powers, therefore, whi~h
remain in the ·heavens in the divine bodies
themselves, there can be no doubt that aU of
them are similar. Hence, it remains that we
should discuss those powers which are thence
transmitted to us, and 'are mingled with gene-
ration. These, therefore, descend with invaria-
ble sameness for the salvation of the universe,
Digitized by Google
and connectedly contain the whole of genera-
tion after the same manner. They are like-
wise impassive and immutable, though they
proceed into that which is mutable and passive.
For generati<~n being multiform, and consisting .
of different things, receives the one of the
Gods, and .that in them which is without differ-
ence, with hostility and partibility, conformably
to its own contrariety a~d divisiolil. It also
recej.ves that · which is .impassive, passively;
and, in short, participates of them acording to
i.ts own proper nature, and not according to
their power. As, therefore, that which is
generated [or has a subsistence in J>ecomiog
to be,] participates of being generatively, and
body participates of the incorp~real, corpo-
really; thus, also, the physical and material
substances which are in generation, partic.ipate
of th·e immaterial and etherial bodies, which
are abov,e nature and generation, in a confused
and disorderly manner. Hence they are ab-
surd who.attribute colour, figure, and contact
to intelligible forms, because the participants
of them are things of this kind ; as likewise
are those who ascribe depravity to the celes-
tial bodies, because their participants some-
times produce evils. For th,e participation
from. the first could not be a thing of this
kind, unless the recipient had some mutation.
. '
Digitized by Google
70
But if that which is participated is received as
in another and different thing, this other thing
in terrene natures is evil and disorderly. The
participation, therefore, becomes the cause of
the abundant difference in secondary natures,
and ·also the commixture of material sub-
stances with immaterial eftluxions ; and be-
sides these, another cause is this, that what is
imparted in one way, is received in another by
terrestrial substances. Thus, for instance, the
eftlux of Saturn is constipative, but that of
Mars is motive; but the passive genesiurgic
receptacle in material substances receives the
former according to congelation and refrigera-
tion, bnt the latter according to an inflam-
mation which transcends mediocrity. Do not,
therefore, the corruption and privation of sym-
metry arise from an aberration which is effec-
tive of difference, and which is material and
passive ? Hence the imbecility ofmaterial and
terrene places, not being able to receive the
genuine power and most pure life of the ethe-
rial natures, transfers its own passion to first
causes. Just as if some one having a diseased
body; and not being able to bear the viviftc
heat of the .sun, should falsely dare to say, in
consequence of looking to his own maladies,
that the sun is not useful to health or life.
A certain thing of this kind also may take
Digitized by Google
71
place in the harmony and crasjs of the universe:
for the same things may be the salvation of the
whole, through the perfection of the things
inherentand the recipients; but may be noxious
to the parts, through their partible privation
of symmetry. In the motion, therefore, of the
universe, all the circulations preserve the whole
world invariably the same; but some one of
the parts is frequently injured by aJ)other part,
which we see is sometimes the case in a
dance.
Again, therefore, corruptibility .and muta-
bility are passions connascent with partial na-
tures. But it is not proper to ascribe these
to wholes and first causes, either as if they
existed in them, or as if they proceeded to
terrestrial substances from them. Hence,
through these things it is demonstrated, that
neither the celestial Gods, nor their gifts, are
effective of evil.
CHAP. XIX.
IN the next place, therefore, we shall answer
your question, "Wliat it is which conjoins the .
Gods tltat have a bod9 in the heavens with the ,
incorporeal Gods." What this is, therefore, is
evident from what has been before said. For
Digitized by Google
72
if these Gods, as·.incorporeal, intelligible, and
united, ride in the celestial spheres, they have
their principles in tbe intelligible world, and
intellectually perceiving the divine forms of
themselves, they govern all heaven ac:coi:ding
to one infinite energy. And if they are present
with the heavens in a separate manner, and
lead the perpetual circulations of them by their
will alone, they are themselves unmingled with
a sensible nature, and exist together with the
intelligible Gods.
- It will he better, however, .to answer you
more particularly, as follows : I say, therefore,
that the visible statues of the.Gods originate
from divine intelligible paradigms, and are
generated about them. But being thus gene- ·
rated, they are entirely established in .them,
and being also extended to•, they possess an
image which derives ,its completion from them.
These images likewise fabricate another order;
sublunary natures are in continuity with them,
according to one union; and the divirie in-
.teUectual forms, which are present with the
visible bodies of the Gods, exist prior to them
in a sepa~te manner. But the. unmingled and
supercelestial intelJigible paradiglllS of them,
abide by themselves in unity, and are at once
* For 1rpor aim/I' in thi,s place, I read rpo' aVTa.
Digitized by Google
73
all things, according to the ~teroal transcen·
dency of themselves.
There is, :therefore, one common indivisible
bond ofthem according to intellectual energies;
and there .is also this bond according to the
common partfoipations of.forms, since. there is
nothing which intercepts these, nor any thing
which comes between them. For indeed, an
immaterial and incorporeal essence itself, being
neither separated by 'places, nor by subjects,
nor defined by the divisible circumscriptions
of parts; immediately concurs, and is connas-
cen't ·with sameness. The progression also,
from, and the regression of all things to; the
one, and the entire domination of the one, con-
gregates the communion of the mundane Gods
with the Gods that preexist in the intelligible
world.
Farther still, the intellectual conversion of
i;econdary to primary natures, abd the gift of
the sam~ essence and power imparted by the
primary to the secondary Gods, connects the
synod ·of them in indissoluble union. For
in things of different essences, such as soul
and· body, and also in those of a dissimilar
species, such as material forms, and those
which are in any other way separated from
each other, the connascent adventitious union
is derived from supernal causes, and is ·lost in
Digitized by Google
74
certain definite periods of time. But by bow
much the higher we ascend, and elevate our-
selves to the sameness bot~ in form and
essence, of first natures, and proceed from
parts to wholes, by so much the more shall
we discover the union which has an eternal
existence, and survey the .essence, which bas
a precedaneous and more principal subsist-
ence, and possesses about, and in itself, differ-
ence and multitude•. '
Since, however, the order of all the Gods is
profoundly united, and the first and second.
genera of them, and all tbe multitude which is
spontaneously produced about them, are con-
subsistent in unity, and also every thing which
is in them is one,-hence the beginning, mid-
dles, and ends in them are consubsistent ac-
cording to the one itself; so that in these, it is
not proper to inquire, whence the one accedes
to all of them. For the very existence in
them, whatever it may be, is this onet of their
• The nature of t/ae one, as it is a~receptive, and all-pro-
ductiire (raJ1Ci1(,'1' Ka' 'lf'aJITO~V'IC) exbib~ts in itself acertain
representation and indication ofmultitude ; for it is all things
prior to all. · .
t For the Gods are essentialized in the one; or, as
Damascius observes, speaking Chaldaically, in the paternal
peculiarity. For in every God there is father, power, and
intellect ; father being the same as lzyparxis and the one.
Digitized by Google
75
nature. And secondary genera, indeed, remain
with invariable sameness in the one of such as
are primary ; but the primary impart from
-themselves union to the secondary genera,
a11d a1i of them possess in each other .the com-
munion of an indissoluble .connexion. ·
From this ·cause, therefore, the perfectly in-
corporeal Gods are united to the sensible Gods·
that have bodies. For the visible Gods also
are external to bodies, -and on this. account
are·in the intelligible world ; and the intelligi-
ble Gods, through the~r infinite union, compre-
hend in themselves the visible Gods ; and both
are established according to a common union
and one energy. In a similar manner, also,
this is the illustrious prerogative of the cause
and orderly distribution of th~ Gods, on which
account the same union of all the divinities
extends from on high, as far as to the end of
the divine order. But if this deserves to be
· doubted, the contrary \YOuld ~e wonderful,
viz. that there should not be this union of
the visible and intelligible Gods. And thus
much concerning the contact with, and esta-
blishment of, the sensible in the intelligible
Gods.
Digitized by Google
76
CHAP. XX.
' '
• AFTER this, you again resume the same inqui..
ries, of which what has been already said may
be considered as a sufficient·solution. Since,
.however, it.is necessary, according to the pro-
verb, frequently to speak of and consider things
that are beautiful, neither shall we pass over
these particulars, as if they had been now
sufficiently answered, but by repeatedly.dis-
cussing them we may, perhaps, obtain from all
of them a certain perfect and great scientific
good. . For you doubt "what it is which dis-
tinguishes dtemons from the vi~hle and.invisible
·Gods, since the .visible are conjoined witli tke in-
viSible di~inities." But I, beginning from this ·
as the first thing, shall demonstrate what it is
in which they differ. . For, ·because the visible
' are united t~ the intelligible. Gods, and have
the same idea with them, but dremon~ are far •
distant from them, according to essence, and
scarcely adumbrate them through similitude,
on this account they .are separated froiµ the
visible Gods; and they differ from the invisi".'
hie Gods, according to the difference it~elf of
the invisible•. For dremons, indeed, are in-
• Viz. According to the difference which there is betweeq
the invisibility of Gods and the invisibility of diemons.
Digitized by Google ·
77
visible, and by no means to be apprehended
by sense ; but the Gods transcend rational
knowledge and material intelligence. And,
because th~y are.unknown and unapparent to·
these, they are thus denominated ; but are said
to be'invisible in a way very different froin that·
in which this is asserted of dreinons. Wh·at,:
therefore, have the ·invisibJe Gods, ·so far as·
they are invisible, more · excellent than the
visible Gods? Nothing. For that which is
divine, wherever it may·be, and whatever a11ot·
ment it rriay possess, has the same power and'
dominion over alJ the natures that are arranged
under it. Moreover, though the invisible'Gods
should become visible, yet they ·r\Ile over in-
visible dremons. For neither the place, which
is the recipient of divinity, nor a certain part
of the world, produces any mutation in the
dominion of the Gods. But the ·whole essence
of the Gods remains every where the same, in-·
·div-
isible and immutable, which all subordinate
beings similarly venerate, in the order assigned·
them by nature.
By the assistance also of this reasoning, we
may discover another difference between Gods
and dremons. For both the visible and invisi·
hie Gods, indeed, comprehend in themselves
the whole government of whatever is contained
Digitized by Google
78
in all heaven and,the world, and in the total
·invisible powers in the universe. But those
powers that are allotted a dremoniacal prefec-
ture, distributing certain divisible portions of
the world, govern these, and have themselves
a .partible fOl'lll of essence and power. They
are; likewise, in a certain respect, connascent
with, and inseparable from, the subjectsoftheir
government. But th-e Gods, though they may
ride in bodies, are entirely separated from them.
The providentialattention, therefore, to bodies,
produces no diminution in those to whom body
is subservient : for it is conn~ctedly contained
by a more excellent nature, is converted to it, .
and is not the cause of any impediment to it.
But the adhering to a genesiurgic nature, and
the being divided about it, necessarily give to
dremons a more subordinate condition. In
short, that which is divine is of a ruling nature,
and presides oYer the different orders of be-
ings; but that which is .dremoniacal is of a
ministrant nature, and receives whatever the
Gods may announce, promptly employing ma·
nual operation, as it were, in things which the
Gods intellectually perceive, wish, and com-
mand. The Gods, therefore, are liberated
from the powers ·which verge to generatiop ;
but dremons are not entirely .purified from
Digitized by Google
'19
these: And thus much concerning this dis-
tinction ; and we trust, that from the former
and. the present exposition, the difference be-
tween Gods and dremons will become more
known.
CHAP. XXI.
THE division, however, of tke pa1nve from tke
impaui;ve, which you adopt, may perhaps be
rejected by some one,.as not adapted to either
of the more excellent genera, through the
causes which we have before enumerated ; and
it also deserves to be subverted, because it is
inferred that .these genera are passive, from
what is performed in reJigious ceremonies.
For what sacred institution, what religious
cultivation, which is conformable to sacerdotal
· laws, is effected through passion, or produces a
certain completion of passions ? Is not each
of these legislatively ordained from the first,
conformably to the sacred laws of the Gods,
and intellectually? · Each also imitates both
the intelligible and celestial order of the Gods ;
and contains the eternal measures of beings,
and those admirable signatures which are sent
hither from the Demiurgus and father of
wholes, by which thirigs of an inetfable nature
Digitized by Google
80
are unfolded into light through arcane symbols,
things·formless are vanquished by:forms, things
more excellent than every image are expressed;
through images, ·and alJ ihfogs are accom-
plished through a divine cause alone, which is
in so great a degree .separated from passions,
that reason is not able to come into contact
with it. . .
This, therefore, is nearly the cause of our
aberration to a multitude of conceptions. For
men being in reality unable to apprehend the
reasons of sacred institutions, but conceiving
that they are .able, are wholly hurried away
by their own human passions, ancl form a con-
jecture of divine concerns from things per-
taining to themselves. In so ~oing, however,
they err in a twofold respect; because they
fall from divine natures ; and because, being
frustrated of these, they draw them down to
human passions. But it is requisite not to
apprehend after the same manner, things which
are performed both.to Gods and men, such as
genuflexions, adorations, gifts, and first fruits,
hut to establish the one apart from the other,
conformahly to the difference between things
more and things less honourable ; and to reve-
rence the former, indeed, as divine, but to
'despise the latter as human, and as performed
to men. It is proper, likewise, to consider,
Digitized by Google
81
that the latter produce passions, both in the
performer and those to whom they are per-
formed ; for they are human and corporeal-
formed ; but to honour the energy of the former
in a very high degree, as_ being performed
through immutable admiration, and a ve~era­
ble condition ofmind, because they are referred
to the Gods.
G
Digitized by Google
8t.
SECTION II.
CHAP. I.
IT is also necessary to demonstrate to you, io
what d~mons, heroes, and souls differ from
each other, and whether this difference ·is
according to essence, or according to power.
or according to energy. I say, therefore, that
dmmons are produced according to the genera-
tive and demiurgic powers of the Gods, in the
most remote termination of progression, and
ultimate distribution into parts. But heroes
are produced according to the reasons [or
effective principles] of life in divine natures;
and from these, the first and perfect measures
of souls receive their termination and distribu-
tion into parts.
Since, however, the nature of dremons and
heroes is thus generated from different causes,
it is also necessary that the essence of the one
should be different from that of the other.
Hence, the essence of dmmons is effective, and
perfective of mundane nature~, and gives com-
pletion to the superintendence of generated in-
Digitized by Google
83
dividWlls. . But the ess~ce of heroes is vital
and .rational, and is the leader of souls. And,
with respect to the powers of each, those of
.d~s mqit he denned to be prolific, in·
spective of nature, and of the hood by which
souls are tJnited to bodies, But it is requisite
to attribute to heroes vivific powers, which are
the leaders of meo, and are liberated from
generation.
CHAP. II.
IT folfows, therefore, that in the next place we
should de.fine the energies ofthem. And those of
d8Dons, indeed, must be surveyed as occupied
about the ·world, and more widely extended in
their elfect.s ; but those of heroes as leis ex~
tended, and as converted to the order of souls.
Hence, these being thus distinguished, S0"11
succeeds, which proceeds aB far as to the end
of the divioe orders ; and, being allotted from
these two genera certain portions of powers, is
redundant with partible additions, and other
prerogatives de.rived from itself. It also pro-
.duc~s at different times different forms ~nd
reasoos and w.anners, which originate froro
diffemtt sonrces ; and, according tQ each part
of the world, employs various lives and i.deaR ;
02
Digitized by Google
84
becoming connascent with, and likewise reced'..:
ing from, whatever natures it pleases ; being
assimilated to all things, and at the same time;
through difference, being separatedfrom them;
drawing forth reasomr'allied to real beings and
generated natures ; «nd connecting itself with·
the Gods, according to other harmonies of
e8sences and · powers-, than those by which
dremons and heroes are united to the divini-
ties. It likewise possesses the eternity of a
similar life and energy in a less degree thao.
dremons and heroes ; yet, through the· benefi-
cent wiH of the Gods, and the illumination im-
parted by them, it frequently proceeds higher;
and is elevated to a greater, i. e. to- the angelie
order; when it no longer remains in the boun-
daries ofsoul, but the whole of it is perfected
into an angelic soul and an undefiled · J;fe~
Hence, also, sonl appears to comprehend in
itselfall-various essences and reasons, and.forms
or species of every- kind. If, however, it be
requisite to speak the truth. soul is always.de--
fined according to one·certain thing, but adapt-
ing itself to precedaneous causes, it is at diffe-
rent times conjoined to different causes.
So great, therefore, being the difference be-
tween the energies of dremons, heroes, and
souls throughout, it is no longer proper to
. doubt, what it is which separates them from
Digitized by Google
each other ; hut they are to be distinguished
by the peculiar nature of each. And so far as
t.hey are able to form one conjunction, so fai:
the communion of them must be surveyed.
For thus it will be possible truly to compre-
hen.
d and define separately the conception
which ought to be formed of them.
CHAP. III.
LET us, however, now proceed to the appear-
ances of the Gods and their perpetual attend-
ants, and show what the difference is in their
appearance. For you inquire, "by what indi-
cation tke presence ofa God, o.r an angel, or an
archangel, or a d<emon, or a certain arckon [i.e.
ruler], or a soul, ma9 be known." In one word,
therefore, I conclude that their appearances
accord with their essences, powers, and ener-
gies. For such as they are, such also do they
appear to those that invoke them, and they
exhibit energies and ideas oonsentaneous to
themselves, and proper indications of them•
gelves. But that we may descend to particu-
lars, the phasmata, or luminous appearances, of
the Gods are uniform ; those of dremons are
various; those of angels are more simple than
those of dremons, but are subordinate to thoise
Digitized by Google
86
of the Gods ; those of archangels ·approximate
in a greater degree to diYioe causes ; but·those
of archons, if these powers appear to you to he .
the cosmocrators•, who govern· the sublonary
elements, will be more various, but adorned
in order ; but if they are the powers that pre-
side over matter, they will indeed be more
various, and more imperfect, than those of the
archons [properly so called]; and those ofsouls
will appear to be all-various. And the phas-
mata, indeed, of the Gods will be seen shining
with salutary light; those of archangels will
be terrible, and at the same time mild ; those
of angels will be more mild ; those of dremona
will be dreadful; those of heroes (which you
have omitted in your inquiry, but to which we
shall give an answer for the sake of truth) are
milder than those of dremons ; but those of
archom~, if their dominion pertaim1 to the world;
produce astonishment, hut if they are material,
they are noxious and painful to the spectators ;
and those of souls are similar to the heroic
phasmata, except that they are inferior to
them.
Againt therefore, the phasrnata of the Gods
are entirely immutable, according to magnitride,
• The conaocraton, or governors of the world, ar& the
planeta. See the fourth book of my translation of Proclus
on the Timaius of Plato.·
•
Digitized by Google
87
morpbe•, and figure, and according to·aH things
pe;t.ailfiiag· t~ them ; those of archangels ap-
proximate to those of the Gods, but fall short
oC the sameness of them ; those of angels are
subordinate to theee, but are immu1able ; and
ihose of ~mons are at different times seen in
a different fonn, and appear at one time great,
but at another small, yet are stilJ recognized to
be the phasmata of dremons. l\lloreover, those
of such archons as are leaders·are immutable;
but those: of such as are m~terial are multi-
formly changed ; thoSe of. heroes are similar
to those of dremons ; and those ·oi sou·Js
imitate in no small degree the dremoniacal
mutation. Farther still, order and ·quiet per-
tain to the Gods ; but with archangels, there.is
an efficacy of order and quiet. With angels,
the adorned and the tranquil are presen~ but
not unattended with motion. ·Perturbation and
disorder follow the dremoniacal phasmata ; but
spectacles attend the archons, conformable to
each of the particulars which we have already
mentioned ; the material archons, indeed, be-
ing borne along tumultuously; hot those of a
leading characteristic, presenting themselves to·
the -view, fimly established in themselves. The•
phasmata of heroes are subject to motion and
mutation ; but th~se of souls resemble, indeed,
• Morpbe pertains to the colour, figure, and magnitude of
superficies.
Digitized by Google
88
the heroic, but at the 'same .time·are leu than
these. In addition also to these .peculiarities,
divine beauty, indeed, shines with an immense
splendour as it were, fixes the spectators in
astonishment, imparts a divine joy, presents
itself to the view with ineffable symmetry, and
is exempt from all other species of pulchritude.
But the blessed spectacles of archangels have
indeed themselves the greatest beauty, ·yet are
not so ineffable and admirable as those of the
Gods. 'Those o~ angels divide, in a partible
manner, the beauty which they receive fro.m
archangels. But the d~moniacal and heroical
self-visive spirits, have both of them beauty in
definite forms, yet ·the former is adorned in
rea8ons which define the essence, and the latter
exhibits fortitude. The pbasmata of archons
Jllay he divided in a twofold respect. For some
I
9f them exhibit ~ ~eauty which is spontaneous,
and of a ruling characteristic; hut others, an
elegance of fo:c.m which is fictitious and reno-
vated. And the phasmata of ~ouh~ are, indeed,
adorned in definite reasons, but these reasons
are more divided than those in heroes, are
partibly circumscribed, and are vanquished by
· one forn1. If, however, it be requisite to de.
fine all of them in common, I say that each
participates of beauty according .to its arrange.
ment, the peculiar nature which it.possesses,
iind its allotment.
Digitized by Google
CHAP. IV.
.PRocEEDlNG, therefOre, to other peculiarities
0£ theni, we say, that with the Gods, indeed,
there is acuteness and rapidity in the energies,
which shine forth with greater celerity ·than
those of intellect itself, though in themselves.
the.y are immoveable and stable. With arch~
angels, the celerities are, in a certain respect,
mingled with efficacious energies. Those of
angels partake of a certain motion, and do not,
.similarly with archangels, possess a power
·which is effective by speaking. The operations
of dremons appear to be more rapid than they
are in reality. In the motions of the heroic
phasmata, a certain magnificence presents it~
self to the view ; hut in accomplishing what
they wish to effect, their energies are.n9t so
rapid as those of d~mons. In the phasmata of
archons, the first energies appear to he ~ost
excellent and authoritative; but the second
have a more abundant representation, yet in
actions fall short of the end. And the .phas..
mat.a of souls are seen to be more moveable,
·yet are more imbecile, than those of heroes.
Jn addition to these things al~o, the magni~
tude of the epiphanies [or manifestations] in
the Gods, indeed, is so great as sometimes to
Digitized by Google
90
,
conceal all heaveu, the sun and the moon; and
the earth itself, as the .Gods descend, is no
longer able to stand ·still. When archangels
appear, certain parts of the world are moved,
and a diTided forerunnin~Jigbt precedes them.
But they exhibit a magnitude of light ~
mensurate t.o the magnitude of their domma-
.tioo. The angelic light is less than the arc&-
attgeJic, and more divided ; but in dmmons it is
still more divided, and ·the ,magnitude of the .
manifestation ·is not always equal in them.
The manifestation of heroes is still less than
that of dremons, but exhibits more of an el~
vated condition. Again, the maoifestatioo of
Boch archons as pteside Ofer mundane forms,
presents itself.to the view as above measure
great; but such of them as are distributed
about matter, exhibit in their manifestations·an
abundance of pride and arrogance. Those of
souls are not all of them seen t.o be equal, but
appear to be less than those of heroes. And,
in short, the magnitude of the manifestation is
appropriately present in each of these, accord-
ing to the magnitude of their powers, and ·the
amplitude of the empire through which they
extend themselves, and in which they exercise
their authority.
After these things, therefore, we shall define
·the reasons of the self-apparent. statues [or
Digitized by Google
91
images]. Hence, in the furms of the Gods--
which are seen by the eyes, the most clear
spectacles of ·truth itself are perceived, which
are also accurately splendid, and shine mrth
with an evolved light. The images of arch-
angels present themselves to the view true and
perfect; but those of angels presene, indeed,
the same form~ but fail in plenitude of indica-
tion. The images of dremons are obscure ;
and those of heroes are seen to be still inferior
to these. With respect, also, to archons, the
images of such as are mundane, are clear ; but
of such as are material, obscure. Both, how-
enr, are seen to be of an authoritative nature. ·
And the images of souls appear to be of a
shadowy form.
In a similar manner, likewise, we must d~
termine concerning the light of these powers.
For the image8 of the Gods, indeed, are replete
with a folgid light. Those of archangels are
full of supernatural light.. Those of angels arts
luminous; but demons ·present themselves to
the view· with a turbid fire. The light of
·beroeM is mingled with many things. And, with
respect to arcbons, the light of those that have
the government of the world is more pure ;
but of those that preside over matter, exhibits
itself mingled from things of a dissimilar and
~ontrary nature. And the light of souls mani..
Digitized by Google
92
fests itselfto be partibly filled with many of the
mixtures which exist in generation.
Conformably, also, to whai has been said, the
fire of·the Gods, indeed, shines .forth with an
indivisible and ineffable light, and fiJls all the
profundities of .the world, in an empyrean·~
hut not in a mundane, m·anner. But the fire of
archangels is impartible indeed, hut is seen to
possess about itself an abundant multitude,
.either preceding or foJlowing after itself. The
fire of angels is divided, except that it exhibits
itselfin the most perfectideas. That.ofdremons
is still more shortly circumscribed by a distri-
bution into parts, is effable, and does. not
astonish the sight of those· that have seen more
excellent natures. The fire of heroes h~, after
a certain manner, the same things as that of
dremons, but at the same time falls short of the
most accurate similitude to it. Moreover, with
respect to archons, the fire of those that are of
a more elevated order, is more pellucid; but
of those that are material, is more dark. And
the fire of souls is seen to be much divided
and multiform, and is comingJed from many of
the natures that are in the world. Again, the
fire of the Gods appears to he entirely stable.
· • For rvpi.,t; in this place, I read 1µrvp1111t;. For the em-
pyrean world, according to the Chaldeans, is abm·e tbe
material worlds, aud emits a supermundane fire or ligbt.
Digitized by Google
98
That of ·archangels ·is tranquil r but that· of
angels is stably moved. The fire ·of dremons
is unstable; bot th.
at of heroes:is, for the most
part,rapidly moved. The fire ofthose archons
that .are of the first. rank is tranquil; but of
those that are:or the last order is tumultuous.
And the fire of souls is transmuted in a multi-
tude of motions.
CHAP. V.
MoREOVER, that .which purifies souls is perfect
in the Gods; but in archangels it is anagogic.
Angels alone dissolve the bonds of generation.
·Dremons draw souls. down into nature; but
heroes lead them to a providential attention
to sensible works. Archons either deliver to
them the government of mun~ane concerns, or
the inspection of material natures. And souls,
when they become apparent, tend in a certain
respect to generation.
Farther still, consider this, also, that yoa
·should attribute every thing which is pure and
stable in the visible image to the more excelJent
.genera. Hence, you· should ascribe to the
Gods that which in the image is transcendently
splendid, and which is firmly established in
itself. That which is splendid, but is estalJ..
Digitized by Google
94
'lished as in another thiug, y0t1 ·ahCNld giYe to
·arehang.elii ; hut that which r.emaiu in araother
to augel1. To all tae.se, therefore, you 11M>uld
Oppotle, that whi.cb ja :rashly bonle WPg, U ·
unestablished, and filled with foreign oatqre1,
the wholeofwhich wadapted to inferior orden~
-Tlteae, also, may MW be divided aoeonliog
to the difference of commixture. For uma..
dane vapours are mingled with dremons, and
are unstably borne along, contrary to the mo-
tion of the world. Genesiurgic compositioas
of pneumatic substances are mingled with he-
roes, about which substances, also, they are
moved. The arebons of the world remain &
variably the 11ame, exhibitiog the mundane .
na-
ture which they pOMesi. Bu.t the archons of
matter are foll of matierial substances. An&
souls ll'e filled with an .almndaoce of stains ao4
foreign spirits, together with •bidi, when the_y
}.eeome Yisible, each of theae genera preaents
itselfto the wiew.
The following, also, will be DO small indica-
tions.to you lof the ditfereace of these powers].
With the Gods matter is immediately co~
awned. With archangels it is cGosumed in a
short time. With angels t~ere ie a.solution o(
and elevation .from, matter. By dremons matte.-
is elegantly 1S.d~1·1'led. With heroes there is a
coadaptation to it, in appropriate .measure.-;,
Digitized by Google
96
atMl a skilfal providential attaation ft> it. And
with respect to arcbons, th_
oee that are the
~veroors of the .world are pre11eot with matter
in a traasceoOent mallllB, -and in·dtis 'way~ un-
fold themsel"es into.light. But:tboee that are
material, exhibit themselves as eatirely replete
with matter. Wida respect to souls, also, those
that are pare, present themselves to the view.
9tlt of matter, but those of a contrary descrip-
ticm ~ seen surrounded with it.
CHAP. VI.
MoREOVER, the git\5 -arising from the manifes-
tations are not all of them equal, nor have the
same fruits. · But die presence• of the Gods,
indeed, imparts to U8 health of body, virtue of
soul, purity of intellect, aad in -one word ele-
vates eJery thing in us to its proper principle.
And tb.at, iodeed, in us whjcb is cold and de.
struetive it annihilates ; that which is bot it
increases, and renders more powerful and pre-
dominant ; and causes -all things to accord
with soul and intellect. It also emits a ligitt,:
a-0eompaoied with _
intelligible harmony, and
• For 'ltapid11r1&a here, it is necessary to .reacl rt•(lflnuJ.
Digitized by Google
. 96
exhibits that .which is not oody as body to the
eyes of the soul, through those of the b~y.-
The presence of archangels imparts likewise
the s!:LJDe things, euept that,it does not impart
them always, nor in all thiug8, ·nor does·it be-
. stow goods which are sufficient, pttfect, and
incapable of being taken away ; nor is tleir
appearance accompanied with a light equal ta
that of the Gods. The presence of angels im..
parts divisibly still more partible goods, and
the energy through which it becomes visible
falls very short of comprehending in ·itself a
perfect light. That of dremons renders the
body, indeed, heavy, afflicts with diseases,
draws down the soul to nature, does not depart · ·,
from.bodies, and the sense allied to bodies, and
detains a\>out this terr~strial place th~e who .
are hastening to divine fire, and does not libe-
rate from the bonds of Fate. The presence of
heroes is in other respects similar to that of.
dremons, but is attended with this peculiarity,-
that it excites to certain generous and great
undertakings. The appearance which is visible
by itself, of the mundane archons, imparts
mundane goods, and every thing pertaining to
human life ; but that of the material archons
extends material beoents, and such works as
ar~ terrestrial. Moreover, the vision of souls
that are undefiled, and established in the order
Digitized by Google
91
ofangels, is anagogic, and the saviour ofthe soul,
is accompanied with sacred hope, and imparts
those goods which sacred hope vindicates to
itself. But the vision of other souls draws down
to generation,. corrupts the fruits of [sacred]
hope, and · fills the spectators with passions
which fix them to body.
CHAP. VII.
MOREOVER, in the manifestations there is an
indication of the order which the powers that
are seen possess. For the Gods are surrounded
by either Gods or angels ; but archangels have
angels either preceding or coarnuiged with
.them, or following them behind, or are accom-
panied by a certain other multitude of angels,
who attend on them as guards. Angels ex-
hibit, together with themselves, the peculiar
works of the order to which they belong.
Good dremons permit us to survey, iu con-
junction with themselves, their own works, and
the benefits which they impart; but avenging
dremons exhibit the species of punishments
[which they inflict]·; and such other dremona
as are depraved are surrounded by certain nox-
H
Digitized by Google
I .
98
ious, blood-devouriag, and fi.erce wild beasts•.
Archons [of the first rank] exhibit, together
with themselves, certain portions ofthe world;
but other archons attract to the.mselves the iq.;
ordination and confusion of matter. With .re-
spect to soul, if·it ranks as a whole, and .does
not belong to any particular species, it preseot.s
to the view a formless fire, extended ·through
the whole world, which is indicative of the
total, one, indivisible, and formless soul of the
universe; but a purified soul exhibits a fiery
form, and a -pure and unmingled fire. Theo,
also, the most inward light of it is seen, and
an undefiled and stable fo1·m, and it most
willingly an·d _joyfully follows its elevating.
J.eader, and unfolds, by its works, .its own ap--
propriate order. But the soul which verges
downward draws along with it the signs of
bonds and punishments, is heavy with material
spirits, is detained by the anomalous tumults of
matter; and exhibits before itself, genesiurgic·
presiding dremons. And, in short, all these
genera exhibit their proper orders ; viz. the
aerial genera.exhibit aerial fire; the terrestrial
• These are terrestrial d~mons, to whom the Chaldean.
oracle alludes, which says, " The wild beasts of the .earth
shall inhabit thy vessel," i. e. as. Psellus explains it, the
oomposite temperature of the soul.
Digitized by Google
00
a terrestrial and blacker fire ; and the celestial
a more splendid fire. But in these three boun-
daries all the genera are distributed according
to a triple order of beginning, middle, and end.
And the Gods, indeed, exhibit the supreme
and most'pure causes ofthis triple order. But
the genera of angels depend on those of arch:.
angels. The genera of dremons appear to be.
subservient to those of angels ; and in a similar•
manner to these, the genera of heroes are
ministrant. They are not, however, subservient
to angels in the same way as dtemons. Again;
the genera of archons, whether they preside
over the world or over matter, exhibit the
order which is adapted to them. But all the .
genera of souls present themselves to the view
as the last of more excellent natures. Hence,
also, they exhibit places in conjunction with
themselves ; souls of the first rank primary:,
but those of the second rank secondary, places,
and the rest conformahly to their arrang.ement,
in each of these three genera. · ·
CHAP. VIII.
MOREOVER, with respect to th~ tenuity and
suhtilty of light, the Gods extend a light so
subtle that corporeal eyes cannot sustain it,
H2
Digitized by Google
100
but are affected in the same manner as fishes,
when they are drawn upward from turbid and
thick water into attenuated and diaphanous
air. For men who survey divine fire are not
able to breathe, through the subtilty of it, but
become languid as soon as they perceive it,
and are deprived of the use of their connascent
spirit. Archangels, also, emit a light which is
intolerable to respiration, yet their splendour is
not equally pure with that of the Gods, nor
similarly overpowering. The pl'eseoce of angels
renders the temperature of the air tolerable, so
that theurgists are capable of being united·to
it. But when dremons are present, the whole
.air is not at all .affected; .nor does the air, which
surrounds them, become more attenuated; nor
does a light precede them, in which, being pre-
viously received and preoccupied by the .air,
they .unfold the.form of themselves; nor are
they surrounded by a certain splendour, which
diffuses its light every where. When heroes
appear, certain parts of the .earth are moved,
and sounds are heard around them ; but, in
short, the air does not become more attenuated,
nor incommensurate to theurgists, so as to ren-
der them unahfe to receive it. But when
archons are present, an assemblage of many
luminous appearances runs round ·them, diffi-
cult to. be borne, whether these appearances
Digitized by Google
101
are mundane or terrestrial. They have not,
however, a supermundane tenuity, nor even
that of the supreme elements. And to the
psychical appearances the air is more allied,
and, being suspended from them, receives in
itself th~ir circumscription.
CHAP. IX. ·
IN the last place, the dispositions of the soul
of those .that invoke the Gods to appear re-
ceive, ·when they become visible, a liberation
from the passions, a transcendent perfection,
.and an energy entirely more excellent, and par-
ticipate of divine love and an immense joy•
.But when archangels appear, these dispositions
receive a pure condition of being, intellectual
contemplation, and an immutable power. When
angels appear, they participate of intellectual
wisdom and truth, pure virtue, stable .know-
ledge, and a commensurate order. But when
dremons are seen, they receive the appetite of
generation and a desire of nature, together with
a wish to accomplish the works of Fate, and a
power effective ofthings of this kind. If heroes
are seen, they derive from the vision other such
like ·manners and many impulses, which con- .
tribute to the communion of souls. But wheu
Digitized by Google
102
these dispositions come into contact with
archons, mundtine or material, motions are
excited in conjunction with the soul. And,
together with the vision of souls, the spectators
derive genesiurgic tendencies and connascent
providential inspections, for the sake of paying
attention to bodies, and such other peculiarities
as are allied to these.
In addition to these things, also, the mani-
festation of the Gods imparts truth and power,
rectitude of works, and gifts of the greatest
goods ; but the manifestation ofother powers is
·appropriately accompanied by such ihings as
are commensurate to their several orders. Thus
the manifestation of archangels imparts truth,
not simply about all things, but de~nitely of
certain things; and this not always, but some-
iimes; nor indefinitely to aU, or every where,
but with limitation, in a certain place, or to a
certain individual. In like manner it does not
impart a power effective of all things, nor
always without distinction, nor every where;
but a power which is efkctive sometimes, -and
in a certain place. But the manifestation of
angels, in a still greater degree than that of
archangels, divides, in imparting good, the cir-
cumscriptions which are always defined by
them in more contracted boundaries. Again,
the manifestation of dremons does not impart
Digitized by Google
103
the goods of the soul, but either thoE!e of the
body, or goods pertaining to the body. And
they impart these when the order of the world
permits them. After the same manner, like-
wise, the manifestation ofheroes imparts second
and third goods, and regards as its scope the
whole terrestrial and mundane polity of souls.
With resp~ct to archons, the manifestation of
some of these imparts mundane benefits, and
all the goods of life ; but that of others of an
inferior rank imparts not a few of the preroga-
tives Qf material natures. And souls, when
. they appear, procure for those that behold
them things which contribute to the benefit of
human life. Thus, therefore, we have appro-
priately defined the gifts of these powers, con-
formably to the proper order of·each ; and the
particulars in the manifestations about which
you inquired, have received a fit reply. And
thus much for these questions.
CHAP. X.
WHAT you introduce, however, for the purpose
of obtaining a knowledge of these things, whe-
ther it be your own opinion, or whether you
have heard it from others, is neither true nor
·rightly asserted. For you say, " that to speak
Digitized by Google
104
boQ,Stingly, and to exhibit an adumbrative pl~n..
tasm, are cummon .to Gods and da!mons, and to
.all the more excellent genera of beings.'' But
the thing is not as you apprehend it to be. For
a God, an angel~ and a good dremon, instruct
men in what their proper essence consi$ts;
and never use an addition in their language
which transcends their power, or their ·appro-
priate good. For truth is coexistent with the
:Gods, in th.
e same manner as light with the
sun. And, at the same time, we say, that
divinity is not.in waJ)t of any beauty or virtue
which it is possible to add to him through .lan-
guage. . Moreover, angels and d~mons always
receive truth from the .Gods, so that they never
assert aQy thing contrary to this, each of th~m
being essentially perfect, nor can th~y add any
thing to it for the sake of commendation,
When, therefore, does the deception men-
tioned by you '~ ofspeakingly boQ,Stingly" tak~
place. For when a certain error happens in
the theurgic art, and not such autoptic, or self,.
visible, images are seen a~ ought to occur, but
others, instead of these, then inferior powers
assume the form of the more venerable orders,
and pretend to be those whose forms they
assume ; .~nd hence arrogant words are uttered
by them, and such as exceed the authority
which they possess. For, as it appears to me,
Digitized by Google
105
r
if any frand germinates from the first prjnciple,
much falsehood is derived from the perversion,
which it is necessary the priest should learn
from the whole order in the phasmata, and by
the proper observation of which they are able
to confute,and reject the fictitious• pretext of
these inferior powers, as by n.o means pertain-
ing to tme and good spirits. Nor is it proper
to introduce errors in the true judgment of
things ; for neither in other sciences or arts do
we judge of their works from the aberrations
which may happen to take place in them. You
should not, therefore, here characterize things
.whi~h are scarcely perfo~ed with rectitude
ibrough ten thousand.labours, from the errors
which may, through ignorance, befall them;
but rather assert something else of them. For
if the works which take place from the appear- .
ance of these powers are such as you say, viz.
if they are arrogant and false, yet the operations
about fire of true spirits are genuine and true.
For, as in all other things, such as are principal
primarily begin from themselves, and impart
to themselves that which they give to others;
as, fur instance, in essence, in Iife, and in motion;
t.bus also the natures which supply all beings
with truth, primarily proclaim the truth of
• For 1l'WAaJ1'1f'f"'1" here, it seems requisite to read 11't-
'ft'A.'1.11µi"'1"· Gale also, in his version, iu this place has 6ctum.
Digitized by Google
•
106
.themselvee, and pl'ecedaneously unfold the es-
sence of themselves .to the spectators. Hence,
likewise, they exhibit.to tjieurgists a.fil'e which
is of itself visible. For it is not the province of
heat to refrigerate, nor of light to dark~n or
·conceal. any thing; nor with any other nature
·which essentially performs a certain thing., is a
pQwer present of at the same time effecting the
;contrary. But things which do not possess a
'[true] nature, and which are contrary to things
-that exist essentially; these are able to receive
contraries, and are adapted to'fall into evil. .
We must say the same thing, therefore, con-
cerning phantasms. For if.these are not true,
.but other things are sowhich have a real exist-
ence, thus also in the appearances of spirits,
they seem to be such as things which are·true
beings ; at the same time they participate of
·falsehood and deception, in the same manner as
the forms which presentthemselves to the view
·in mirrors ; and thus vainly attract the mind
about things .which never take place in any of
the more excellent genera. These phantasms,
likewise, will consist in deceptive perversions.
·For that which is an imitation of [real] being,
and ·is an obscure assimilation, and becomes
the cause of deception, .pertains to no one of
the true and'clearly existing genera. But the
·Gods, indeed, and those powers that follow the
Digitized by Google
107
GOds, reveal true images ofthemselves, but by
no · means extend phantasms of themselves,
such as exist in water, or in mirrors. For on
what account should they exhibit these? Shall
we say, as bringing with them an indication of
their own essence and power? This, however,
is by no means the case. For these phantasms
become the cause of deception to those that
believe in them, and withdraw the spectators
from the true knowledge of the Gods. Shall .
we say, then, that it is because they afford ~­
certain utility to those that behold them? , .But
what advantage can be derived from falsehood?
'If, therefore, this is not the case, may it not be
natoml to divinity to extend a phantasm from
itself? But how can that which is firmly esta-
blished in itself, and· which is the cause· of
essence and truth, produce_in a foreign seat a
certain deceitful imitation of itself? By no
means, therefore, does divinity either transform
himself into phantasms, nor extend these from
himself to other things, but emits, by illumina-
tion, true representations of himself, in the true
manners of souls. Conformahly to this, als0,
the attendants of the Gods are emulous of the
selt:visible truth of the Gods. But that which ·
you now say, " tltat it is common to Gods <NIJ
tkmuns, and the rest ofthe m<n'e exullent genera;
to prodite fict'itiuus images, and to speak boast-
Digitized by Google
108
ingly of themselves," confounds all the genera
of supe1ior beings in each other, and leaves no
difference whatever between them. For thus
all things will be common to them, and nothing
·singularly excellent will be given to transcen-
dent natures. It will, therefore, be IJ)(>re.juet
to ask, in opposition to you, in what wiU tht.
genus of the Gods be superior to that of d-..
mons ? These genera, however, have notlling
in common,nor is the communion between tb•
phantastic, nor is it fit from such natures as are
last, and from the errors which take plare.-ill
them, to estimate first essences, and the• u.e
impressions of forms which are in them. For
by thus thinking concerning these essences,
we s~all think justly, and in a way pleasing to
the Gods.
CHAP. XI.
IN what ·follows, in which you think that
ignorance and deception about these things are
impiety and impurity, and in which you exhort
us to the true developement ofthese particulars,
is not, indeed, attended with any ambiguity,
but is acknowledged by all men. For who will
not grant that the science which apprehends
real being, is most adapted to a divine cause,
Digitized by Google
109
but that ignorance which is hurried along to
nonbeing, since it is most remote from a divine ,
cause, falls off from truly existing forms? Since,
however, what is said by you.is not sufficient,
I will add what is wanting; and because what
you assert is .rather philosophical and logical,
than conformable to.the efficaciousartofpriests,
on dais account I think it is necessary to say
something more theurgical ~bout these par-
ticulars.
For, let "ignorance and deception he error
and .impiet9," yet it does not follow ·that, on
this account, things which·are offered to the
Gods, and divine works, are f~lse. For a con-
ception of the mind does not conjoin theorgists
with the Gods ; since, if this were .t~e case,
what would hinder those who philosophize
theoretically, from having a theurgic union with
the Gods? Now, however, i.n reality, t\lis is
not the case. For the perfect efficacy of in-
effable works, which are divinely performed in
a way surpassing all intelligence, and the power
of inexplicable symbols, which are known only
to the Gods, impart theorgic union. Hence,
we do not perform these things.thr~mgh intel-
lectual perception; since, if this were the case,
the intelJectoal .energy of·them would be im-
parted by us; neither of which is true. For
when we do not energize in.tellectuaUy, the
Digitized by Google
.110
symtkemata• themselves perform by themsehe8
their proper work, and the ineffable.power of
the Gods itselfknows, by itself, its own images.
It does not, however, know them, as if ex~ited
by our intelligence ; for neither is it natural
that things which comprehend should be ex.
cited by those that are comprehended, nor per-.
feet by imperfect natures, nor wholes by parts.
Hel)Ce, neither are divine causes precedane-
ously called into energy by our intellections ;
but it is requisite to consider these, and all the
best dispositions of the soul, and also the purity
pertaining to us, as certain concauses ; the
things which properly excite the divine will be.
ing divine symthemata themselves. And thus,
things pertaining to the Goos; are moved by
themselves, and· do not receive from any in·
ferior nature a certain principle in themselves
of their QWD proper energy.
I have, however, been thus prolix, in order
that you may not think all the authority of ihe
energy in theurgic operations ~ in our power,
and that yon may not suppose the true work
of them consists in our conceptions, or the
falsehood ofthem inour deceptiOn. For though
we may know the peculiarities wjiich are con-
sequent to each genus, yet we may not obtain
• i e. The inexplicable theurgic signs or symbols.
Digitized by Google
Ill
the truth which is in their works. Neverthe-
less, efficacious union [with divine natures] is
not effected without knowledge; yet know-
ledge does not possess a sameness with this
union. So that neither is divine purity ob-
tained through right knowledge, as neither is
purity of body procured through health; but
divine purity is more undefiled than know-
~ge, andis more transcendentlyunited. Hence
neither this, nor any thing of the like kind
which is io us, and is human, cooperates any
thjng to the end of divine actions.
Accept, therefote, this, which is said indeed
ipcidentally, but is a sulficient reply to the
w~ole of your conception concerning the the-
urgic .art. Thpse. usertions, all!IO, of yours
pertain to the same thing, in.which you say~
" that tke scieACe of tM Gods is sacred '11Ul.
*fful, and call tke ignorw&Ce ef tAings .i~
4/Jle. and Hautiful darkness, /Jut the knowledge
'lf tlum l.igkt ; and aho add, tllat tl&e i.grwraftCe
of tkese.things fills men wit/& all evils, tkr""Ki
inen.u#tion and audacity, lntt tie kaouild,ge of
t/l,em is tk caNSe of all geod." For all these
assertions tend .to the same thing with the
preceding, and obtain t-Ogether with them ·an
appropriate discussion. It is necessary, there-
fore t.o omit them, and to pass 011 to the in-
quiries concerning .divination, and concisely
dissolve them.
Digitized by Google
SECTION III.
C:SAP. I.
IN the first place, therefore, you ask me to exM
plain to you distinctly, "wkat tkat is wl&ick is
ejfeded in tke foreknowledge of future eventsr
Immediately, however, that which you endea·
vour to learn is impossible. For, according
to the meaning of your question, you t~ink­
that ~oreknowledge is somethingwhich is gene-
rated, or subsist.& in becoming to b~, and per-
tains to things which have a natural subsist-
ence. It is not, however, one of the things·
which llave their existence in becoming to be,
nor is it effected after tile manner of physical
mutation, nor is it invented and devised as
something useful for the purposes of life, nor
~ short, is it a human work, but is divine a~d
supernatural, and is supernally·sent to us from·
' the heavens. It is also unbegotten and eternal,
and spontaneously. has a precedaneous sub-
sistence.
The greatest remedy, tJierefQre, for all such
doubts is this, to know the principle of divina-
:
Digitized by Google_,_ ~·-·
113
tion, that it neither originates from bodies, 'nor
from the passions about bodies, nor from acer-
tain natur~, and the powers about nature, nor
from any .human apparatus, or the habits per-
taining to it. But neither does it originatefrom a
certain art, externally acquired, about a certain
part of such things as are subservient to life.
For the whole authority of it pertains to the
Gods, and is imparted by them ; it is also
etfected by divine works, or signs; and it pos-
sesses divine spectacles,and scientific theorems.
AU other things, however, are subjected as in-
struments to the gift of foreknowledge trans-
mitted from the.Gods ; viz. such things as per-
tain t.
o our soul and body, and such as are in
the nature of the universe, or are inexistent in
particular natures. But some things are pre-
viously subjacent, as in the order of matter;
such as places, or cer.tain other things of the
like kind.
If some one, however, dismisSing primordial
causes, . should refer divination to secondary
effices, such as the motioos of bodies,·.or the
niutatjons of passions, or certain other motions,
or the energies ofhuman life, or animal or physi-
cal reasons, and should think that in so doing
he .~§~~rts. something manifest ; or if, consider-
ing the symmetries of these with reference to
each ~~her, as cause~, he should apprehend
I
Digitized by Google
11(
that he can assign something accurate con-
cemiog divioatioo, be wholly deviatea from the
truth. But the ooe right boundary, and the
one principle of all these particulars, is by no
means to produce without a cause the fore-
knowledge of futurity, from things which have
no prescience in themselves, but to survey from
the Gods who contain in themselves the tenni-
natioos of all the knowledge of beings, divioa-
tion distributed about the whole world, and
about all the natures that are separately con-
.tained in it. For such a cause as this is pri-
mordial, and is especially most common, .con-
taining in itself primarily those things which it
gives to its participants, and particularly im-
parting truth, of which divination is in want;
and antecedently compreheDding the essence
and cause of future ~ents, from which fore.
knowledge necessarily and incessantly pro-
ceeds. Let such a principle as this, therefore,
be the origin in common ofall divination, from
which it is possible to discover scientifically
all the species o'f it ; which we shall now un-
fold, ooofonnably to the question~. proposed
by you.
Digitized by Google
JI 5·
CHAP. 11.
CONCERNING the divination, therefore, which
takes place in sleep, you say as follows: " We
frl',quent/9 obtain tkrougk dreams, wken t0e arfl
asleep, a krwwkdge offuture events, Mt being
in an ecstQ,8!J, tkrougk wkic/1, we are muck agi-
tated, for tAe bod9 is qtti,et, but we do 'IUJt appre·
ke1t,d wkat we see in tke same clear manner a1
wken we are awake:' It is usual, however, for
what you here say, to happen in human dreams,
and in dreams which are excited by the soul,
or by some of our conceptions, or by reason, or
by imaginations, or certain diurnal cares. And
these, indeed, are sometimes true and some-
times false ; and in som~ things they appre-
hend rea1ity, but in ma-.y deviate from it. . But
the dreams which are denominated tkeopemptoi,
or sentfrom God, do not subsist after the mao..
ner which you mention ; but they take place
either when sleep is leaving us, and we are
beginning to awake, and then we hear a certain
voice, which concisely tells us what is to be
done ; or voices are heard by us, between
sleeping and waking, or when .we are perfectly
awake. An~ sometimes, indeed, .an invisible
and incorporeal spirit surrounds the recum-
1 2
Digitized by Google
116
bents, so as not to be perceived by the sight,.
~ut by a certain other cosensation and intelli-
gence. The entrance of this spirit, also, is
accompanied with a noise,1and he diffuses him-
self on all. sides without any contact, and
effects admirable works conducive to the libe-
ration of the passions of the soul and body.
But sometimes a bright and tranquil light
shines forth, by which the sight of the eyes is
detained, and which occasions them to become
closed, though they were· before open. The
other senses, however, are in a vigilant state,
and in'a certain respect have a cosensation of
the light unfolded by the Gods ; and the re-
cumbents hear what the Gods say, and know,
by a consecutive perception, what is then done
by them. This, however, is beheld in a still
more perfect manner, when the sight perceives;
when intellect, beingcorroborated,follows wha-t
is performed,. and this is accompanied with the
motion of thespectators. Such, therefore, and
so many being the differences ofthese dreams,
no one of them-is similar to human dreams.
But wakefulness•, a detentioo of. the eye,s, a
·• ,For vir.-o, here,.it is n~essary to. read CWW"l'O(. For
Iamblicbus has bef~re shown that divine dreams are not .
produced in sleep, but either when sleep lea\•es us, or be~
tween sleeping and waking, or when .we are perfectly awake.
Digitized by Google I
117
similar oppression of the head, a condition be-
tween sleeping and waking, an instantaneous
excitation, or perfect vigilance, are all of them
divine indications, .and are adapted to the re-
ception of the Gods. They are also sent by
the Gods, and a part of divine appearances an-
tecedes according to things of this kind.
Take away, therefore, from divine dreams,
among which also divination is contained, " tlte
bei.ng asleep," and 'also the assertion, " that we
do not appre/umd what we see in sleep, in the
same cle'ar manner as when, we are awake." For
the Gods are no Jess clearly present with us in
these dreams than when we are awake. . And,
if it be requisite to speak the truth, the pre·
sence ofthe Gods, in the former case, is neces-
sarily clearer and inore accurate, and produces
a more perfect .perception than in the latter.
Some, therefore, not knowing these indications
of prophe~ic dreams, and conceiving that they
have something in common with human dreams,
rarely and casually obtain a foreknowledge of
futurity, and in consequence ofthis, reasonably
doubt how dreams contain any truth. And 1
' this, also, appears to m_
e to disturb you, in con-
The necessity of th~ emendation is also evident from what
Iamblichos shortly after adds, viz. t/&at we mun take away
froa divine drea111S the being aal.eep ; i. e. the being in ~
· profound sleep. )
Digitized by Google
Ill
sequence of your not knowing the true in~ica­
tioos of dreams. It is necessary, however,
that, admitting these to be the elements of the
true knowledge of dreams,·you should attend
to the whole of the discussion concerning
divination in sleep.
CHAP: Ill.
THE wise•, therefore, speak as follows: The
soul having a twofold life, one being in con-
junction with body, hut the other being sepa·
rate from all body; when we are awake we
employ, for the most part, the life which is
common with the body, except when we sepa-
rate ourselves entirely from it by pure intellec-
tual and dianoetic energies. But when we ~re
asleep, we are perfectly liberated, as it were,
from certain surrounding bonds, and use a life
separated from generation. Hence, this form
of life, whether it be intellectual or divine, and
whether these two are the same thing, or
whether each is peculiarly of. itself one thing,
is then excited in us, and energizes in a way
• In the original there is nothing·more than Aeyo110'& 01
moi in tlilia place; but the senae requires that we sheuld
read Atyo1111i oe a& O'otfio' rao1. · And this emenclatioo ia con·
firmed by the \'ersions of Scutellius and Gale.
119
conformable to its nature. Since, the~fore;
intellect surveys real beings, J:,ut the soul con-
tains in itself. the reasons of aU generated na-
tures, it very properly follows that, according
to a cause .which comprehends future eYent.s,
it should have a foreknowledge of them, as
arranged in their precedaneoos reasons.· And
it possesses a divination still more perfect than
this, when it conjoins the portions of life and
intellectual energy to the wholes from which. it
was separated. For then it is filled .from
.wholes with all scientific knowledge, so as fc>r
the most part to attain by ·ita conceptiol\S to tbf'
:apprehension of every thing .~hich itt eff~tf.d
in the world. Indeed, when itis united to: the
Gods, by a liberated energy of this kind~ it
then receives the most true. plenitutles of in-
.teHections, from which it emits the true divina-
·tion of divine dreams, and deri~es the . most
.genuine principles of knowledge. But if the
soul connects its intellectual and divine part
with mol'.6 excellent natures, t~u its phan-
tasms will be more pure, wh~ther they are
ph~niasms of the Gods. or of bein~ essentially
incorporeal, or, in short, of things ~oritributing
to the truth'ofintelligibles. If, also, it ele"ltes
the reasons of generated natures Q()Qtaiu~d. in
it to the Gods, the causes of them, it receives
power from them, and a kno'1\·l~e which
Digitized by Google
120
apprehends what has been, and what will be ;
it likewise surveys the whole of time, and the
deeds which are accomplished in time, and is
aHotted the order of providentially attending
.to and correcting them in an appropriate man-
ner. And bodies, indeed, that are,diseased it
, heals ;.but properly disposes such things as
subsist among men erroneously and disorderly.
It likewise frequeqtly ·~eliv~s the discoveries
'Of ar.is, the distributions of justice, and the
establishment of legal institutions. Thus .·in
the temple of Esculapius, diseases are healed
through divine dreams;· and~ through the·order
hf; nocturnal appearanc,s, .th"e ·medical"art is
'ohtained;from sacred dreams. : Thus, too, the
whoJe.aroiy.of Ale.Xander was presery~, which
-would otherwise have been entirely destroyed
in the night,·in -consequence ofBacchus appear-
ing in ·sleep, and ·p0intiog out ·a solution of the
·most" grievous calamities. The city Aphutis,
likewise; when hesieged .by King Lysander,
was sared· through a dream · sent to him by
Jupiter · Ammon. , For afterwan:Isf he most
rapidly withdrew· his· army from thence, and
immediately rai8ed .the siege.
What occasio~ however, is there to be pro-
lix in mentioning every . particular of things
which ·happen daily, and which exhibit an
energy supe1-i<>r to all language? What, there-
- - --·-.
Digitized by Google
•
121
fore, bas been said concemirig.divine divination
in sleep is sufficient to show what it is, how
it is effected, and what advantage it affords to
mankind~
CHAP. IV.
AFTERWARDS, also, .you say, " toot man9,
.tkrorigk entk'¥Siasm .and divine inspiration, pre-
dict future even.ts, and that they are tit.en in lo
wakeful a state, as even to energi~e according to
sen.se, ON/, yet they ci:re Mt C0118Cimu .ofth6·lllale
~hey are in, or:at least, rwt 80 muck as tltey iJJere
hefore.'' I wish, therefore, here to point out to
.you. the sig:ns by which ·those woo are rightly
,possessed by ·the Gods may he known. · For
they either subject the whole.of their life, as·a
vehicle or instrument to the inspiring· Gods ;
or they exchange ·the human for · the divine -
life ;. or they energize .wi.th :their. own propel'.
life about divinity. But·they neither energize
according to sense, nor are in·.such .a vigilant
state as· those who have ·their. senses excit.ed
from sleep (for neither do they appreheod
futu}'.e events); nor are. they mov.ed as those
.are who energize according to imp~lse. Nor,
again, are they conscious of the state they are
m, neither ·as they were before, nor in any
Digitized by Google
122
other way; noT, iri short, do they convert to
themselves their own intelligence, or exert any
knowledge which is peculiarly their own.
The greatest indication, however, of the truth
ofthis is the following. Many, through divinein-
spiration, are not burned when fire is introduced
to them, the inspiring influence preventing the
fire from touching them. Many, also, though
burned, do not apprehe~d that they are so, be-
cause they do not then live an animal life.
And some, indeed, though transfixed .with
spits, do not perceive it; but others that are
struck on the shoulders with axes, .and others
that ~an their·arms cut with .kniYes, are by no
means .conscious of what is done to th~.
Their energies. likeWise, are not at all human.
·For inaccessible places become accessible to
those that are divinely inspired; they are thr~wn
into·fire, and pass through fire, and oYer rivers,
like the.priest in Castabalis, without being in-
j ul'ed. But from thes~ things it is demonstrated,
that those wl;ao energize enthusiastically are
not conscious of the state they are in, and that
they neither .live a human nor an animal life,
according to. sense or impulse, but that they
exchaege this for a certain more divine life, by
which they are inspired and perfeetly poss!sled.
Digitized by Google
•
•
123
. CHAP. V.
TmtRE are, therefore, many species of dil'ine
poasession, and divine inspiration is multifa·
·rio~sly excited ; whence, also, the·signs of it
are many and different. For either the Gods
are.·different, by whom we are inspired, and
thus proouce a different inspiration ; or the
mode of enthusiasms being various; produces
a different ,afflatus. For either divinity pos.
sesses us, or we give up ourselves wholly to
divinity, or we have a common energy with
him. And sometimes, indeed, we participate
of the last pbwer of divinity, sometimes of his
niiddle, and ·sometimes' of .his first .power~
Sometimes, ·also, there is aparticipation only,
at other times communion likewise, and some-
times a1. union of these divine inspirations. ·
Again, either the soul alone enjoys the im1pira·
"
tion, or the sonl receives..it in conjunction with
the body, or it is .also participated by the com-
mon animal.
· From these things, therefore, the signs of
those that are inspired are multiform. For the
inspiration is indicated by the motions of the
[whole] body, and of certain parts of it, by the.
perfect rest of the body, by harmonious orders
and dances, and by ~legant sounds, or the
Digitized by Google
124
contraries of these. Either the body, like-
wise, is ·seen to be elevated, or increased in
bulk, or to be borne along sublimely in the air,
or· the cootrari!3s of these, are seen to take
place about it. An equability, also, of voice,
according to magnitude, or a great variety of
voice after• intervals of silence, may be ob-
served. And again, sometimes the sounds
have.a musical 'intension and remission, and
sometimes they are strained and relaxed after
a different manner.
_
CHAP. VI.
. .
THAT, however, 'which is the greatest thing is
this, that he who [appears· to} d~w down a
certain divinity, sees a spirit desce11ding and
entering into some one, recognizes its .magni-
tude and quality, and is also mystically per-
suaded ·and governed,.by it. But a species of
fire is seen by the ·recipient; prior to the spirit
being received, which sometimes becomes mani-
fest .to all' the spectators, either when the
divinity is descending, or when he is departing.
And from"this spectacle the greatest truth and
power of the God, and ~specially the order he
• For icara ra µ.Era{v cia>..aµ.{Javoµ.Eva "· >.., l read µ.Era
"·"°·
Digitized by Google
125
possesses,.as likewise about what particulars
he is adapted to speak the truth, what the
power is which he imparts, and what he is
able to effect, become known to the scientific.
Those, howevel', who, without these blessed
spectacles, draw down spirits invisibly, are
without vision, as if they were in the dark, and
know nothing of what they do, except some
small signs which become visible through the
body of him who is divinely inspired, and cer-
tain other things which are manifestly seen~
but they are ignorant of all the most imp0rtant
particulars of divine inspiration, which are
concealed from them in the invhiible. But to
return from this digr~ss.ion : if the presence of
the tire of the Gods, and a certain ineffable
species of light, externally accede to him who
is possessed, and if they wholly fill him, have
dominion over and circularly comprehend him
on all sides, so that he is not able to exert any
one proper energy, what sense, or animad-
version, or appropriate projection of intellect,
can there be in him who receives· a diviqe
fire? What human motion, likewise, can then
intervene, or what human reception of passion
or ecstasy, or of _
aberration of the phantasy,
or of any thing else of the like kind, such all
is appreb.eoded by the. multitude, can take
place? . Let such, therefore, be the divine in:-
Digitized by Google
126
dications of true inspiratiOn from the Gods,
which he who attends io·will not wander from
a right knowledge concerning it.
CHAP. VII.
h is not, however, sufficient to learn these
things alone, nor will he who only knows these
become perfect in divine science. But it is
requisite also to know what enthusiasm is, and
how it is produced. It is falsely, therefore,
supposed to be a motion of dianoia, ·in con-
junction with dremoniacal inspiration.- For
human dianoia is not moved, if it is thus enthu-
siastically affected ; nor is the inspiration pro-
duced by drelJ)ons, but by the Gods. Neither
is enthusiasm simply an ecstasy ; for it is a r~
elevation and transition to a more excellent
eondition of being. But delirium and ecstasy
evince a perversion to that which is worse.
Hence, he who is an advocate for the latter,
speaks, indeed, of things which . happen to
those that energize enthusiastically, yet does
not teach that which is precedaneous. But
this consists in being wholly posses~ed by di.
vinity, which is afterwards followed by mental
alienatioia. No one, theref9te, can jostly ap-
prehend that enthusiasm is something pertaint
127
iDg to the soul, or to some- one of its powers,
or to intel1ect or energies, or to corporeal
imbecility, or that it cannot subsist without the
debility of the body. For neither is the work
of divine inspiration human, nor does the whole
of it depend on human powers and energies;
but these, indeed, have .the relation of a sub-
ject, and divinity uses them as instruments.
He accomplishes, however, the whole work of
divination' through himself, and being separated
in an un!Dingled manner from other things,
neither the soul nor the body being at all
moved, he energizes by himself. Hence, when
divinations are rightly effected in the way
which I have mentioned, then they subsist
without falsehood. But when the soul has
been previously disturbed, or is moved in the•
interim, or the body intervenes, and confounds
the divine harmony, then divinations become
turbulent and false, and the enthusiasm is llO
longer true nor genuine.
CHAP. VIII.
IF, therefore, true divination was a solution of
the divine part of the soul fro.m the Qther parts
of it, or if it was a separation of iutellect, or a
<;ertain extension of it; or _
if it was a vehe-
Digitized by Google
128
mence and extension of energy or passion, or
an acuteness and motion ofdianoi!l, or a fervour
of intellect; then, since all such like ·particu~
lars are excited by our soul, enthusiasm might
be' reasonably suppose~ to be the offspring of
the soul. If, however, the body, on account
of certain temperaments, whether they are such
as are melancholic, or any other, or, to speak
more particularly, on account of heat, or cold,
or moisture, or a certain specific quality of
these, or the mixture or temperature of these
in a certain proportion~ or the pneumatic part
of the soul, or the more and the less of these ;
if any one of these is established as the cause
ofenthusiastic alienation, in this case, the alien-
ation will be a corporeal passion, and wi11 be
excited by physical motions. But if its exci-
tation ·originates from both .the soul and the
body, so far as these coalesce with each other,
a motion of this kind will be common to the
animal [produced by the union of the two].
The en~hnsiastic energy, however, is not the
work either of the body or the soul, or of both
conjoined. For these do not ~ontain in them-
selves a certain cause of divine alienation, nor
are things ofa more excellent nature adapted
to be generated by such as are less excellent.
But it is nece~sary to investigate the causes
of dil'ine mania. And ·these are the ill1hnina-
Digitized by Google
129 .
tions proceeding froni the Gods, the· spirits
imparted by them, and the all perfect domina-
tion of divinity, which comprehends indeed
every thing in us, but exterminates entirely
our own .proper consdousness and motion.
This divine possession, also," emits words which
are not understood by those that utter them ;
for they pronounce them, as it is said, with an
' .
insane mouth, and are wholly subservient, and
e~tirely yield themselves to the energy of the
predominating God. The whole of enthusiasm
is a thing of this kind, and is effected by these
· causes, though this must not be considered as
asserted with consummate accuracy.
CHAP. IX.
WHAT you afterwards say is as follows : " That
some of tltose who suffer a mental alienation,
energize enthuS'iasticall9 on hearing cymbals or
drums, or a certain modulated sound, such as
those. who ·are Corybanticall9 .inspired, those
who are possessed b9 Sabazius, and·those who
are inspired by the mother of the Gods." It is
necessary, therefore, to discuss the causes of
these things, and to show how they are.de-
finitely produced,
That music, therefore, is of a motive nature,
K
Digitized by Google
130
and is adapted to excite the affections, a~d
that the melody of pipes produces or heals the
disordered passions of the soul, changes the
temperaments or dispositions of the body, and
by some melodies causes a Bacchic fury, but
by others occasions this fury to cease•; and,
• " Among the deeds of Pythagoras," says Iamblichus,
in his Life of that father of philosophy, (chap. xxv.) " it is
said, that once through the spondaic [i.e. Doric] song of
a piper he extinguished the rage of a Tauromenian lad,
who had been feasting by night, and intended to bum
the vestibule of his mistress, in consequence of seeing her
coming from the house of his rival. For the lad was in-
flamed and excited [to this rash attempt] by a Phrygian
song; which, however, Pythagoras most rapidly suppressed.
But Pythagoras, as he was astronomizing, happened to
meet with the Phrygian piper at an unseasonable time of
night, and persuaded him to change his Phrygian for a
spondaic song; through which the fury of the lad being
immediately repressed, be returned home in an orderly
manner, though a little before this he could not be in the
least restrained, nor would, in short, bear any admonition;
and even stupidly insulted Pythagoras when he met him.
When a certain youth, also, rushed with a drawn sword on
Ancbitus, the host of Empedocles, because, being a judge,
he had publicly condemned his father to death, and would
have slain him as a homicide, Empedoc)es changed the in-
tention .of the youth, by singing to bis lyre that verse of
Homer,
Nepenthe, withoat gall, o'er every ill
ObliTion 1preac11. 0DYSS. lih. 4.
And thus snatched his host AnchiJus from death, and the
youth from the crime of homicide. It is also related, that
ihe youth from that time became the most celebrated of the
~~ized by Google
131
likewise, how the differences of these accord
with the several dispositions of the soul, and
disciples of Pythagoras. Farther still, the whole Pythagoric
achool produced, by certain appropriate songs, what they
called ezartylii, or adaptation ; syaarmoga, or elegance of
manners; and epaphe, or contact, usefully conducting the
dispositions of the soul to passions contrary to those which
it before possessed. For when they went to bed, they puri-
fied the reasoning power from the perturbations and noises
to which it had been exposed during the day, by certain
odes and peculiar songs, and by this means procured for
themselves tranquil sleep, and few and good dreams. But
when they rose from bed, they again liberated themselves
from the torpor and heaviness of sleep, by aongs of another
kind. Sometimes, also, by musical sounds aloDe, unaccom-
panied with words, they healed the passions of the soul and
certain diseases, enchanting, as they say, in reality. And it
is probable that from hence this name epode, i. e. enchant-
ment, came to be generally 11Sed. After this manner, there-
fore, Pythagoras, through music, produced the most bene-
ficial correction of human manners and lives."
Proclus also, in his MS. Commentary on the First Alci-
biades of Plato, observes, " that of musicial instruments
some are repressive, and others motive; some are adapted
to rest, and others to motion. The repressive, therefore,
are most useful for education, leading our manners into
order, repressing the turbulency of yoath, and bringing its
agitated nature to quietness and temperance. But the
motive instruments are adapted to enthusiastic energy; and
hence, in tlie mysteries and mystic sacrifices, the pipe is
useful; for tlie motive power of it is employed for the pur-
pose of exciting the reasoning power to a divine nature.
For here it is requisite that the irrational part should be laid
a11Jeep, and the rational excited. Hence those that instruct
youth use repressive instruments, but initiators such as are
motive. For that which is disciplined is the irrational
K2
Digitized by Google
i32
that an unstab1e and variable melody is adapted
to ecstasies, such as are the melodies ofOlym-
pus•, and others of the like kind ; all these
appear to me to be adduced in a way foreign
to enthusiasm. For they are physical and
human, and the work of our art; but nothing
whatever of a divine nature in them presents
itself to the view.
We must rather, therefore; say, that sounds
and melodies are appropriately consecrated to
the Gods. There is, also, an alliaiu;:e in these
sounds and melodies to the proper orders and
powers of the several Gods~ to the motions in
the universe itself, and to the harmonious
sounds which proceed from the motions. Con-
part; but it is reason which is initiated, and which energizes
enthusiastically."
See, likewise, on this subject, Ptolem. Harmonic. lib. iii.
cap. 7 and 8, who observes among other things, " that our
souls directly sympathize with the energies of melody,
recognizing, as it were, their alliance to them-and that at
one time the soul is changed to a quiet and repressed con-
dition, but at another to fury and enthusiasm. Tair inp-
')'E1a1r T1fr µ~X'lo'a' uvµ'll'aux_Eiv 71µ"v a'JIT11cp11' Tar ifivx_ar, T1fV
fTIJ')'')'EJIEtaJI t•IT'lrEP ~'ll"t')'tJlt.ifTKOIJtTQr--et, 'll'OTE µEv Etr 71u11x.-
1av ica1 ·1CaTu~oX11v TPE'll'EufJa1, 'll'OTE OE Etr oi~pov ica1 EvfJ11u1au-
µov, And_, in the last place, .see Plato in his lo, and Aris-
totle in his Politics,
• Proclus in Polit. p. 365, says, " that the melodies of
Olympus were the causes of ecstasy." Ta TOii OX11µ'11'011
µEA1f EIC~QTtlCa.
133
formably,_therefore, to suclt like adaptations of
melodies to the Gods, the Gods themselves
become present. For there is not any thing
which intercepts ; so that whatever It.as but a
caS1J,Q,lsimilitude to, directl9participates of, them.
A perfect possession, likewise, immediately
takes place, and a plenitude of a more ex~
cellent essence and power. Not that the body
and the soul are in each other, and sympathize,
and are copassive with the melodies ; but be.
cause the inspiration of the Gods is not sepa-
rated from divine harmony, but is originally
aclapt.ed and allied to it, on this account it is
participated by it in appropriate -measures.
Hence also, it is excited and restrained accord-
ing to the several orders of the Gods. But
this inspiration must by no means be called an
ablation, purgation, or medicine. For it is not
primarily -implanted in us from a ce~tain dis-
ease, or excess, or redundance; but the whole
principle a~d participation of it are superoally
derived from the Gods.
Neither is it proper to say that the soul
primarily consists of harmony and rythm. For
thus enthusiasm would be adapted to the soul
alone. It is better, therefore, to deny this, and
to assert that the soul, before she gave herself
to body, was an auditor of divine harmony;
and that hence, when she proceeded into body,
Digitized by Google
134
and heard melodies of such a kind as especially
preserve the divine vestigie of harmony, she
embraced these, from them recollected divine
harmony, and tends and is a1lied to it, and as
much as possible participates ofit. Hence the
cause of divine divination may, after this man-
ner, be assigned in common.
CHAP. X.
LET us, however, discuss what pertains to
divination more particularly ; not asserting this,
that nature leads each thing to its like; for the
enthusiastic energy is not the work of nature ;
nor again asserting t.hat the temperature of the
air, and of that which surrounds us, produces
-also a .different temperature in the body of
those that energize enthusiastically; since in-
spiration, which is the work of the Gods, is
not changed by corporeal powers or tempera-
ments. Nor must we say, that the much cele-
brated inspiration of divinity is ~dapted to
passions and generated natures. For the gift
of the proper energy of the Gods to men is
impassive and superior to all gene1·ation. But
since the power of the Corybantes is, in a
· certain respect, of a guardian and efficacious
13'>
nature•, and . that of Sabazius appropriately
pertains to Bacchic inspiration, the puri.fica-
• The nature of the Corybantes, and the order to which
they belong, is unfolded as follows by Proclus, in Plat.
Theol. lib. vi. cap•. 13. " To what has been said we shall
add the theory pertaining to the unpolluted• Go<ls among
the ruling divinities [i. e. among the di,•inities that subsist
immediately after the intellectual Gods]. For Plato also
gives us an opportunity ·of mentioning these, since it is
necessary that the rulers and leaders of wholes should sub-
sist analogous to the intell!lctual kings, though they make
their progression in conjunction with division, and a separa-
tion into parts. For as they imitate the paternal genera-
tive and convertive powers of the intellectual kings, thus also
it is necessary that they should receive the immutable mo-
nads in themselves, according to the ruling· peculiarity. and
establish over their own progressions secondary causes of a
guardian characteristic. And the mystic tradition, indeed,
of Orpheus makes mention of these more cleal'ly. But
Plato being persuaded by the mysteries, and by what is per-
formed in them, indicates concerningthese unpollute<l Gods.
And in the Laws, indeed, he reminds us of. the inflation of
the pipe by the Coryh!Ultes, which represses every inordinate
and tumultuous motion. But in the Euthydemus, be makes
mention of the collocation on a throne, which is performed
in the Corybantic mysteries : just as in other dialogues he
mentioDB the Curetic order, speaking of the armed sports of
the Curetes. For the Curetes are said to surround and to
dance round the Demiurgus of wholes, when he was un-
folded into light from Rhea. In the intellectual Gods,
therefore, the first Curetic order is allotted Its hypostaais.
But the order of the Corybantes, which precedes Core
[i.e. Proserpine], and guards her on all sides, as the theology
• Tbeae Goda are called uapoll.,,ed, becaaae they 11re tbto caoaea or
purify. For every God begins bis own -energy from hilllfflf, and is that
primarily wbiolt hi• e&eota are aei:Olldarily.
Digitized by Google
136
tions of souls•, and the solutions .of ancient
divine aogert, on this account the im1pirations
of them entirely differ from each other.
says, is analogous to the Curetes in the intellectual order.
If, however, you are willing to speak conformably to Pla-
tonic custom, because these divinities preside over purity,
and preserve the Curetic order undefiled, and also preserve
immutability in their generations, and stability in their pro-
gressions•into the worlds, on this account they were called
Corybantes. For TO icopov, to koron, is every where signifi-
cant of purity, as Socrates says in the Cratylus; since, also,
you may say that our mistress Core was no otherwise de-
nominated than from purity and an unpolluted life. But, in
consequence of her alliance to this order, she produces two-
fold guardian triads, one in conjunction with her father, but
the other herself by and from herself, imitating ill this
respect the whole vivific Goddess [Rhea] who constitutes the
first Curetes."
• Servius, in commenting on the " Mystica vannu!! lacchi..
of Virgil, observe11, that the sacred rites of Baccbus per-
tained to the p11ri6cation of souls, " Liberi p11-tris sacra ad
purgationem animarum pertinebant." And elsewhere he
says, " Anipire aere ventilantur, quod erat in sacris J,iberi
purgationis genus." Euripides also, in Baccbis, exclaims,.
fiµ
E,ciwr, ' v ay,~um,
Ka, 8iaawErai
Ev opEai /3"icx.wwv
011ioivi icq8apµoit;. •
i.e. " 0 blessed and happy be, wh\ knowing the mysteries
of the Gods, sanctifies his life, and purifies his soul, cele-
brating orgies in the mountains, with holy purifications...
t" In the greatest diseases and labours (says Plato in the
Pbredrus) to_ which certain persons are sometimes subject
• For ••11o301r here, it i1 neceHary to read w~o11.
Digitized by Google
137
With respect, however, to the mother of.the
Gods, ·you, indeed, seem to .think that those
through the ancient indignation ofthe Gods, in consequence
-offormer pilt, mania when it takes place, predicting what
they stand in need of, diacovers a liberation from such evils
by flying to prayer and the worship of the Gods. Hence,
obtaining by 'this means purifications and the ad,·antages of
initiation, it renders him who possesses it free from disasters
both for the present and future time, by discovering to him
who is properly insane, and possessed by divinity, a solution
of the present evils." And the Platonic Hermias beautifully
unfolds the meaning of this ancient indignation of the Goos,
through former guilt, as follows : " OJfences which have
been committed for a great length of a time, are more difficult
to be washed away, and a liberation from them can alone be
eJfected.by the telestic art; but those that have been com-
mitted for a shorter time are more easily cured. Thus, also,
we see in the medical art, that maladies which have existed
but for a little time, if they are paid attention to at their com-
.mencement, are easily remedied, but that when they are of.
long standing, they are more difficultly healed. For the
evil in thiA case becomes as it Were natural and confirmed by
habit, and resembles an induratcd ulcer. A similar thing
to this, therefore, takes place iri guilty conduct. Hence, if
be who has committed an injury, immediately repents, and
acknowledges bis guilt to him whom be has injured, he dis-
solves the injury, and renders himself no longer obnoxious
to justice. Bnt when some one dissolves an injury com-
mitted by bis father, by restoring, for instance, land which
he bad unjustly taken, he then .makes himself to be unob-
noxious to justice, and lightens and benefits the soul of bis
father. These things, however, the telestic art more swiftly
remedies. Moreover, if it should happen that the whole
race of some one successively use land which had originally
been plundered, in this case, the injury in the first place be~
Digitized by Google
138
who are possessed by the Goddess are males;
for, conformably to this, you denominate .them
Metrizantes. But the thing is not truly so.
For those who are precedaneously inspired by
the .mother of the Gods are women ; but the
· males that are thus inspired are very few in
number, and such as are more effeminate.
comes immanifest, and on this account is more .difficult to
be cured ; and, in the next place, time causes the evil to be-
come as it were natural. Hence the Gods frequently pre-
dict to men that they should go to such or such places, and
that an apology should be made to this man., who was never
known to them, and that he should be appeased, in order
that thus they may obtain a remedy and be liberated from
their difficulties, and that the punishments inflicted on them
by ~e Furies may cease. The Gods, however, predict, not
for the purpose of taking away punishment, butin order that
justice may be done, and that we may be amended. The
telestic art, therefore, renders him better who possesses the
mania which it imparts, and through him saves also many
.others. Thus, for instance, it is related of one who was
cutting down an oak, and though he was called on by a
Nymph not to cut it down, yet persisted in felling it,
that he was punished for so doing by the avenging Furies,
that he was in want of necessary food, and that if at ~y
time he met with it, it was immediately taken from him, till
one who possessed the telestic art told him to raise an altar
and sacrifice to this Nymph, for thus he would be liberated
from his calamities. Another person, likewise, who had
slain his mother, was freed from the punishment inflicted on
him by the Furies by migrating to another country, con-
formably to the mandate of divinity, and there fixing his
_abode."
Digitized by Google
139
This enthusiasm, however, has a vivific and
replenishing power•, on which account, also,
it in a remarkable degree differs from all other
mama.
Proceeding, therefore, 'in this way, in what
remains of the present discussion, and fitly
distinguishing the inspirations of the Nymphs,
or of Pan, and the other differences of them,
according to the powers of the Gods, we shall
separate them conformably to their appropriate
peculiarities ; and we shall also be abJe ·to
explain through what cause they leap and
dwell in mountains, why some of them appear
to be bound, and why they are worshiped
through sacrifices. All these, likewise, we
shall ascribe to divine causes, as containing in
themselves all the authority of these particu-
lars ; but we shaH not say that either a certain
collected redundancy of body or soul requires
to be purified, or that the periods of the sea-
sons are the causes of such like passions, or
that the reception of the similar, and the abla-
tion of the di~similar, bring with them a certain
• Thia is because Rhea, the mother of the Gods, is a
vi•ific Goddess, being filled indeed (says Proclu.s, in Plat.
Theol. lib. v. c. xi.) from the father prior to her [i. e. from
Saturn] with intelligible and prolific power, but filling the
Demiurgus [Jupiter], who derives his existence from her,
with vivific abundance. · '
Digitized by Google
140
remedy for an excess of this kind. For all
such like particulars are corporeal-formed, and
are entirely separated· from a divine and in-
tellectual life. · But each thing energizes con-
formably to its· nature ; so that the spirits
which are excited by the Gods, and which
produce in men Bacchic inspiration, expel
every other human and physical motion; and
it is not proper to assimilate their energies to
those which are usualJy exerted after our man-
ner; but it is fit .to refer them to perfectly
different and primordial divine causes. One
species, therefore, of divine ·inspiration is of
this kindt and is after this manner produced.
CHAP. XI.
ANOTHER species of divine divination which is
much celebrated, most manifest and manifold,
is that of oracles, about which you say a.S
follows : " There are sO'llW who drink water, tis
the priest ofClarius, in Colophon• ; /mt others
are seated at tlte mouth [of a cavern], as ·tkose
who prophesy at Delphi ; and others imbibe
the 'llapour from water, as the prophetesses in
• See, concerning this oracle, Scb,oliastes Apollonii ad i.
Iibrum, et Tacitus ii. Annal.
Digitized by Google
141
1Jratul,chidt2•." You have, therefore, made
mention of these three oracles by ·name, not
that there are only these, for there are many
more which you have omitted, hut as these are
more celebrated than the rest, and, at the same
time, because through these you may be suffi-
ciently instructed in the mode of. divination
sent to men from the Gods, hence, as it appears
to .me, you were satisfied with these. We,
therefore, likewise shall discuss .these three,
omitting to speak about.the many other.oracles
that exist. ·
. It is acknowledged .then by all men, that the
oracle in Colophon gives its answers through
the medium of water. For there is a fountain
in a subterranean dwelling from which the
prophetess drinks ; and on certain es.tablished
nights, after many sacred rites have been pre-
viously performed, and she has drank of the
fountain, she delivers oracles, but is not visible
to those that are present. That .this water,
therefore, is prophetic, is from hence manifest.
But how it becomes so, this, according to the
proverb, is not for e\'ery man to know. For it
appears as ifa certain prophetic spirit pervaded
through the water. This is not, however, in
reality the case. For a divine nature does not
• This oracle is mentioned by Herodotus,1. i., by Strabo,
l. iiv. and by Ammian. Marcell. lib. xxix. .
Digitized by Google
142
pervade through its participants in this manner,
according to interval and division, hut com-
prehends as it were externally, and illuminates
the fountain•, and fills it from it.self with a
prophetic power. For the inspiration which
the water affords is not the whole of that which
proceeds from a divine power, but the water
it.selfonly prepares us, and purifies our luciform
spiritt, so that we may be able to receive the
divinity ; while, in the mean time, there is a
presence of divinity prior to this, and illumi-
nating from on high. And this, indeed, is not
absent from any one, who through aptitude is
capable of being united to it. But this divine
illumination is immediately present, and uses
the prophetess as an instrument; she neither
being any longer mistress of herself, nor ·capa-
ble of attending to what she says, nor perceiv-
ing where she is. Hence, after prediction, she
. is scarcely able to recover herself. And be-
fore she drinks the water, she abstains from
food for a whole day and night; and retiring
to certain sacred places, inaccessible to the
• See Plutarch in his treatise De Defectu Oraculorum.
t See Plutarch in the above mentioned treatise. Con-
cerning this luciform spirit, or vehicle, which is immortal,
and which is called by Olympiodorus av-you~E~ xtr1o1v, a
lwiform t1e1l111et1t, see my TranslaUo& of the fifth book of
Proclus on the Timieus.
Digitized by Google
143
multitude, begins to receive in them the en-
thusiastic energy. Through her departure,
therefore, and separation from human concerns,
she renders herself pure, and by this means
adapted to the reception of divinity : and from
hence she possesses the inspiration ofthe God,
shining into the pure·seat of her soul, becomes
full of an unrestrained afBatus, and receives
the divine presence in a perfect manner, and
without any impediment.
. But the prophetess in Delphi, whether she
gives oracles to mankind through an attenuated
and fiery spirit, bursting from the mouth of the
cavern, or whether being seated in the adytum
on a brazen tripod, or on a stool with four fee~,
she becomes sacred to the God ; whichsoever
of these is the case, she entirely gives herself
up fo a divine spirit, and is illuminated with a
ray of divine fire. And when, indeed, fire
ascending from the mouth of the cavern cir-
cularly invests her in collected abundance, she
becomes fil1ed from it with a divine splendour. ·
But when she places herself on the seat of the
God, she becomes coadapted to bis stable pro-
phetic power: and from both these preparatory
operations she becomes wholly possessed by
the God. And then, indeed, be is present
with and illuminates her in a separate manner,
and is <litferent from the fire, the spirit, the
Digitized by Google
144
proper seat, and, in short, from all the visible
apparat~s of the place, whether physical or
sacred,
The prophetic woman too in Brandchidre,
whether she holds in her hand a wand•, which
.was at first received from some God, and be-
comes filled with a divine splendour, or whether
s~ated on an axis, she·predicts future events,
or dips her feet or the border of her garment in ,
the water, or receives the God by imbibing the
vapour of the water ; by all these she becomes
adapted to partake externallyt of the God.
But the multitude of sacrifices, the sacred
law of the whole sanctimony, and such other
things as are performed in a divine manner.
prior to the prophetic inspi~tion, viz. the baths
of the prophetess, her fasting for three whole
days, her retiring into the adyta; and there
receiving a divine light, and rejoicing for a
considerable time-all these evince that the
God is entreated by prayer to approach, that
• It was usual for those who prophesied to carry a wand~
Tiresias bad a sceptre, and Abaris an arrow. The Scho-
liast on Nicander says, that the Egyptian and Scythian
magi, and also many of those in Europe,. prophesied with
wands. ADJ Eustathius on the Odyssey, p. 1657, observes,
" that there ·is a certain magic in divine wands," esse in
pa{3ooic 8uoic riva µayuav.
t That is, to partake of an illumination, which has no
O'XEO'ic, or Aabihuk, to any thing material.
Digitized by Google
145
he becomes externally present, and that the
prophetess, before she comes to her accustomed
place, is inspired in a wonderful manner ; and
that, in the spirit which rises from· the foun-
~in, another more ancient God, who is sepa-
rate from the place, shines forth to the view,
and who is also the cause of the place, of the
country, and of the whole divination.
CHAP. XII.
IT appears, therefore, that the divination of
oracles accords with all the hypotheses which
we have before adduced concerning prediction.
For ifa power of this kind was inseparable from
the nature of places, and of the bodies which
are the subjects of it, or proceeded• according
to a motion defined by number, it would not
be able to foreknow, with invariable sameness,
things which exist every where and always.
, But being separate and ,liberated from places
and things which are measured by the numbers
of time, and also from those which are detained
in place, it is equally present with all things
wherever they · may be, and subsists simul-
taneousfy with all the natures that are pro-
• For ~ 'trpoiovua here, it seems necessary to read ,f 1rpo-
iovva.
L
Digitized by Google
. 146
dueed according to time. It likewise com-
prehends in one the truth of all things, through
its· separate and transcendent essence. ·
. Hence, if this is rightly asserted by us, the.
prophetic pow,er of the Gods is not partibly
comprehended by any place, or partib1e human
body, npr by the.soul, which is detained in one
certain species of divisible natures; but being
separate and indivisible, it is wholly every
where present with the natures which are capa-
- hie of receiving it. It likewise externally illu-
minates and fills an things, pervades through
all the ele,nents, comprehends earth and air;
fire and water, and leaves nothing destitute of
itself, neither animals nor· any of the produc-
tions of nature, but imparts from itself a cer•
tain portion of foreknowledge, to some things
in a greater~ and to .others in a less, degree.
Moreover, existing itself prior to all things, by
its own separate nature, it becomes sufficient
to fill all things, so far as each is able to par- .
take of it.
CHAP. XIII.
LET us, therefore, now direct our attention to
another species of divination, which is not
public, hut of a private nature, concernii1g
Digitized by Google
which you say, " tllat some become ·entkttaiastic
/Jy standing on characters, as those tllat arefilled
from the intromission of spirits." This species,
therefore, through those who badly use it, can-
not easily be comprehended in one definition.
But it is obvious and superficial, and known to
many, and employs a falsehood and deception
which are not to be endured ; nor is it at all
attended with the presence of a certain divinity,
but it produces a certain motion of the soul,
which is adverse to the Gods, and attracts
from them an obscure and adumbrative repre-
sentation, which, through the evanescent nature
of its power, is mmally disturbed by dremonia-
cal depraved spirits. That, however, which
is truly a representation of the Gods, is in other
respects genuine and pure, immutable and true,
and is inaccessible to, and unimpeded hy, spirits
of a ,contrary nature. For, as darkness is not
adapted to sustain the splendour of the glitter-
ing light of the sun, hut suddenly becomes
totally invisible, entirely recedes, and imme-
diately vanishes; thus, also, when the power
of the Gods, which fil1s aU things with good,
abundantly shines forth, no place is left for the
tumult of evil spirits, nor can it present itself
to the view; but, as if it was nothing, it de-
parts into nonentity, not being able to he at all
moved, when more excellent natures are pre-
L 2
Digitized by Google
148
sent, or to disturb* such natures in their illuJ
mination8.
"' Proclus, in his MS. Commentary on the First Alcibi-
ades of Plato, observes, " ·that in the mysteries some one of
the more imperfect dremons assumes the appearance of one
that ismore perfect, and draws down to himself souls that
are not yet purified, and separates them from the Gods.
Hence, in the most holy of the mysteries [i.e. in the Eleu-
sinian mysteries], prior to the manifest presence of the God
[who is invoked], certain terrene dremons present them-
selves to the view, disturbing those that are initiated, divuls-
ing them from undcflled good, and exciting them to matter.
On this account the Gods [in the Chaldean oracles] order us
not to behold them, till we are guarded by the powers im-
parted by the mysteries. For they say,
Ov yap XP'I icuvove rn {JJ...Eruv rp1v OtJJta TE°AE118ut;.
i.e. It is not proper you should behold them till your body
is purified by initiation. And they add the reason,
Ori rat; irvx.ae 8E'AyovrH aE1 rE°AErtJv arayov111,
i. e. For these doomons alluring souls, always draw them
away from the mysteries.
Conformably to this, also, Proclus in Plat. Theol. p. 7,
says, "''rtrEp Ev ra1e r"'v rE'Atr"'v ay&t.1raratt lflaa& rove µirrae.
T1/V µEv 'lf'PtJTftV '1f'O°AVEIOEl11, icai roX11µ.oplflott; ;tJV 8Et~V '1f'fJO-
f3E{3X,,µEvOlt; 'YEVElltv aravrqv, Etlltovrat; OE, aicX1vE1e, icat ra1t;
,TE°AETatt; 'lr'Elflf'ayµEvovt;, avr,,v r11v Ooav t'AXaµir'" a11:pailflv"'t;
1yic0Xr1,t118a1, 1ea1 yvµv&rat; (t.1e av ta&"o' lfla&Ev) rov 8uo11
µEraXaµ/3avuv, rov avrov 01µa1 rpwov icai EV r11 8E"'P'9 TtJv
oXtJv. i. e. " As in the most holy of the mysteries, they say,
that the mystics at first meet with the multiform and many
shaped genera [i.e. with evil daimons], which are hurled
forth before the Gods, but on entering the interior parts of
the temple, unmoved, and ·guarded by the mystic rites, they
genuinely receive in their bosom divine illumination, and
Jirnsted of their garments, as they would sa.v, partici10:1h·ol'
-·
Digitized by Google
14!}
Since, therefore, these differ so greatly, I
shall not use any other indications, in order to
distinguish them, than those which are adduced
by you. For when you say, " some standiJig
on characters," you seem to signify nothing
else than the cause of all the evils pertaining
to these things. For there are some who,
neglecting the whole business of the telesiurgic
theory, both concerning the invoking [priest]
and the inspector (f7ro7rn1~), and also despising
the order of religion, and the most holy endu-
rance of labours for a long time, and rejecting
the sacred laws and ordinances, and other re·
ligious ceremonies, think that the standing on
· characters is alone sufficient, and that by doing
a divine nature ; the same mode, as it appears to me, takes
place in the speculation of wholes."·
That mitred sophist, Warburton, as I have elsewhere
called him, from not understanding the former part of thill
latter extract from Proclus, ridiculously translates the words
'll'OAVEtCEO't ICat 'll'O'A.vµoptjiot~ T6J)I 6E61V rpo/3E{3'A.,,µEv0tt; ')'EVEO'tV,
" multiform 11hapes and species, that pre6gure the first gene-
ration of the Gods." See his Divine Legation of Mo:es,
book ii. p. 152, 8vo. a work replete with distorted concep-
tions an<J inaccurate translations. And ·yet, as great a
sophist as Warburtou _
was, and notwithstanding the work I
have just mentioned abounds with false opinions, and such
as are of the most pernicious kind, yet he is compelled by
truth to acknowledge, in book ii. p. 172, "that the. wisest
and best men in the Pagan world are unanhnous in this, that
the mysteries were instituted pure, and proposed the noblest
end by the worthiest means." But this by the way.
Digitized by Google
1.50
this for one hour, they can cause a certain
spirit to enter; though how is it possible that
any thing beautiful or perfect can be ·effected
by these? Or how, by ephemeral works, can
a contact be produced with the eternal and
true essence of the Gods in sacred deeds?
Through these things, therefore, it appears
that such like rash. men entirely err, and that
they do not deserve to be ranked among
diviners.
CJIAP. XIV.
CoscERNING another kind of divination, also,
you say as follows: " Others who are conscious
what they are doing in other respects, ·are
divinely inspired according to tlte ph:antastic
part, some indeed receiving darkness for a co-
operator, others certain potions, bitt others in-
cantations and compositions. And some ener-
gize according to the imagination throogk
water•, others in a. wall, otILers in tlie open air,
• This divination according to the imagination through
water, may be illustrated by the following extract from
' Damascius (apud Photium): rvv,, upa 8EOU0tpov EXOVD'a
fVOtv 'lt'apq)wyorar,,v. vc"'p yap E'YXEa11a arcpai~vt~ 'lt'OT'IP''I
TiVt Tt.JV VaAtvt.JV, Et.Jpa Kara TOV VCQTO~ Ell161 TOV 71"0T?lpt011 Ta
faD'µara T61V ED'oµEvwv 7rpayµart.Jv, Kat 'lt'pov>..eytv «TO T'J~
o..,,E61\" a11ra inrtp EµEA"'AEv ED'ED'8a1 7ravr6>r. ,, CE •npa ro11
Digitized by Google
J.51
and otkers in tke ligltt oftlte sun, or some ·ollter
celestial b<Jily." The whole, however, of this
kind of divination of which you now speak,
since it is multiform,_ may be comprehended in
one power, which may he called the eduction
of light •. But this illuminates with divine
light the etherial aod lucifonn vehiclet with
which the soul is surrounded, from which
divine visions occupy our phantastic power,
these visions being excited by the will of t.he
Gods. For the whole life of the soul and all
the powers that are in it, being in subjection to
the Gods, are moved in such a way as the
Gods, the leaders of the soul, please.
'1fpayµaro<: ov11: EXalJEI' ,,µa<:. i. e: " There was a sacred
woman who possessed in a wonderful manner a divinely
gifted nature. For pouring pure water into a certain glau
cup, she saw in tbe water that·was within the cup the lumi-
nous appearances of future events, and from the view of
these she entirely predicted what would happen. But of
this experiment we 'als~ are not ignorant."
· • " · The Platonists," says Psellus (ad Nazianzenum)
" asi;ert that light is spread under divine substances, and is
rapidly seized, without any difficulty, by some who possess
such an excellent nature as that which fell to the lot of
Socrates and Plotinus. But others, at certain periods, ex-
perience a mental alienation about the light of the moon."
t Concerning this vehicle, in whiCh the phantastie power
resides, see vol. ii. of my translation of Proclus on the
Timreus of Plato, p. 407 ; the Introduction to my translation
of Aristotle on. the Soul ; and the long extract from Syne-
sius on Dreams, in vol. ii. of my Proclus on Euclid.
Digitized by Google
..And this.takes place in a twofold manner,
either from the Gods being present with the
;;;oul, or imparting to the soul from themselves
a certain forerunning light ; but, according to
each of these .modes, the divine presence and
the illumination have a separate subsistence.
The attentive power, therefore, apd dianoia'
of the soul, are conscious of what is effected,
siuce the divine light does not come into conT
tact with these; but the phantastic .part is
divinely inspired, because it is not excited to
the mod.es of imaginations by itself, but by the
Gods, the phantasy being tbe1J entirely changecl
from human custoq1.
. Since, however, a contrary is receptive of a
contrary, acco1·ding to a qi utatfon and departure
from itself, and that which is ~Hied to another
thing, and familiart with it through similitude,
js capable of receiving it, hence the illuminators
• i. e. The discursive energy of reason.
t Proclus in Plat. Polit. having observed that Socrates in
the Phredrus, when he speaks in a divinely inspired man-
ner, and poetically adopts such' names as are employed by
the poets, and says that it is not possible for one who speaks
with an .insane [i.e. with an inspired] mouth to abstain from
them, adds " that an alliance to the dremoniacal genus, pre-
paring the soul for the reception of divine light, ex.cites tbe
phantasy to symbolic narration." H 'lr(JO<: oaiµ.ovio11 'YEllO'
OllCEtOT1/~; ,, 1tpOEVT(JE7Tt,OVt1a T'/11 rov 6mw "'"'TO<: 7T«(JOVt1tav,
~11arctvu· r~11 ipavrauta11 Et~ T'/11 uvµ.{3oXtK'/V a'ITayyEXtay,
p. 396.
Digitized by Google
153
Tec?eive darkness as a cooperator, and employ
in illuminating the -light of the sui:a, or of the
moon, or, in short, of the air.
S<:>metimes, likewise, they use collocations
of such things as are adapted to the Gods that
are about to descend, or they employ incanta-
tions or compositions, and these appropriately
prepared for the reception, presence, and mani-
festation of the Gods. And again, sometimes
they introduce light thro1,1gh water, because
this being diaphanous, is aptly disposed to the
reception .of light. But at other times, they
cause light to shine forth on a ·wall, having
previously prepared the wall for the reception
of light in the best manrier by the sacred de-
scriptions of characters ; and, at the.same time,
they fix the light in a certain solid place, so
·that it may not be widely diffused.
Many other modes, also, of introducing light
might be mentioned ; but all of them may he
referred to one mode, that of irradiation, where-
ever it may be effected, and through whatever
instruments the Gods may illuminate. Since,
therefore, this illumination accedes externally,
fll1d has every thing which it possesses subser-
vient to the will and intelligence alone of the
Gods, and as the greatest thing pertaining to
it, possesses a sacred irradiating light, either
supernally derived from ether, or from the air,
Digitized by Google
()f the moon, or the suu, or from some .other
-celestial sphere,-this being the case, "
it is
evident from all these particulars, that such a
mode of divination as this is unrestrained, pri-
mordial, and worthy of the Gods.
CHAP. XV.
LET us, therefore, pass on to the mode of divi-
nation which is effected through human art,
and which possesses much of conjecture and
opinion. But concerning this you say as follows:
" Some also establish the art ofthe investigatiO'R,
effuturit!I through tkeviscera, through birds,and
through the stars." And there are, indeed, many
other arts of this kind, but the abQve are suffi-
cient to exhibit the whole artificial species of
divination. Universally, therefore, this art em-
ploys certain divine signs, which derive their
.completion frolll the Gods, according to various
µiodes. But fr<>:m divine portents, according
to an alliance of things to the signs which are
exhibited, art in a certain respect decides,
.&nd from certain probabilities conjecturally
predicts. The Gods, therefore, produce the
signs, either through nature, which is subser-
vient both generally and particularly to the
generation of effects; .or through genesmrgic
Digitized by Google
155
dremons, who presiding over the elements of
the universe, partial bo~ies, and every thing
contained in the world, conduct with fadlity
the phrenomena, conformably to the wil1 of the
Gods. But these signs symbolically premani·
fest the decrees of divinity and of futurity, as
Heraclitus says, " neither speaking nor con·
eealing, b:ut signifying•;'' because they express
the mode of fabrication through premanifesta·
tion. . As, therefore, the Gods generate .all
things through formst, in a similar manJ).er
they signify all things through signs, impresse<!
Wi it wer~ by a seal (~qi av,,0,,µ1ir,.,v) . Perhaps,
likewise, they r.ender by this mean our intelli~
gence more acute. And thus much has been ,
said by us in common concerning the whole of
this kind of human art.
CHAP. XVI.
DESCENDIN~, however, to particulars, the soul
of animals, the d~mon who presides over them,
the air, the motion, of the air, and the circula-
tion of the heavens, variously change the vis-
• These words of Heraclitus are also quoted by Plutarch
in his treatise De Defectu Oraculorum.
t For E1icov"'v here, I read uc"'v·
Digitized by Google
i56
cera•, conformably to the will of the Gods.
But an indication that they 3:re so changed is
this, that they are frequently found without a
heartt, or deprived of the most principal parts,
without which it is not at all possible for
animals to be supplied with Jife. With respect
to birds, likewise, the impulse of their proper
soul moves them, and also the dremon who
presides over anima)s ; and, together with these,.
the revolution of the air, and the power of the
heavens which descends into the air, accord ·
with the wiJI of the Gods, and consentaneously
lead the birds to what the Gods ordained from
the first. Of this the greatest indication is,
that birds frequently precipitate themselves to
the earth, and destroy themselves, which it is
• Herodian, lib. viii. obsenes, that the Italians very
much believed in the igdications of future events through
the viscera: and Strabo, lib. xvii. asserts the same.thing.
t The auspices were said to J>e pestiferous when there
was no heart in the entrails, or when the head was wanting
in the liver. This was the case with the animals that were
sacrificed by Cresar on the day in which he was slain. The
same thing also.happened to Caius Marius, when he was
sacrificing at Utica. But when Pertioax was sacrificing,
both the heart and the liver of the victim were wanting.
whence his death was predicted, which happened shortly
after. In the sacrifices, likewise, which Marcellus per-
formed prior to the unfortunate battle with the Carthagi-
nians, the liver was found to be without a bead, as Plutarch
and Livy, Pliny and Valerius Maximus relate.
151.
not natural for any thing to do ; but this iEf .
something supernatural, so that it is some other
thing which produces these effects through
birds.
Moreover, the lations of the stars· approxi-
mate to the eternal circulations of the heavens,
·not only locally, but also in.powers, and the
irradiations of light. But these are moved
cooformably to the mandates of the celestial
Gods. For the most pure, agile, and supreme
part of the air, is adapted to be enkindled
[i.e. is most inflammable], so that when the
Gods assent, it is immediately set on fire. And
if some oue thinks that certain effiuxions of the
celestial bodies are imparted to the air, his
opinion will not he discordant with what is
fr~quently effected by the divine art. The
union, also, and sympathy of the universe, and
the simultaneous motion of the most remote
parts, as if they were near, and belonged to
one animal, cause these signs to be sent from
the Gods to men in the most luminous manner,
primarily, indeed, through the heavens, hut
afterwards through the air.
From all that has been said, therefore, this
becomes manifest, that the Gods, employing
many instruments as media, send indications
to men ; and that they also use the ministrant
aid of dremons and souls, and the whole of
Digitized by Google
158
nature, and of every thing in the world which
is wiJlingly obedient to them, they being the
primordial leaders ofall these, and transmitting
the motion which descends from them wherever
they please. Hence, they being separate from all
things, and liber.ated from all habitude and co-
arrangement with thing~ in generation, lead all
that generation aod nature contains, accordin~
to their own .proper will. This explanatioD',
th~refore, of divination accords with the doc-
trine of the fabrkative energy and providence
of the Gods. .For it does not draw down the
intellectof more excellent natures to sublunary
concerns and to us, but this intellect being
establi~hed in itself, converts to itself signs and
r
the whole of divination, and .discovers that
these proceed.from it.
CHAP. XVII.
fN .the next place you inquire " concerning tlte
mode of divination, what it is, am/, what t/u
quality is by wlticlt it is distinguished," which
we have already explained, both generally and
particularly. But you, in the first place, re.,.
present diviners as asserting, " that all of them
obtain aforekrwwledge offuture events thmvgh
Gods or dremons, and tkal it i~ Mt .possible f<W
"'
Digitized by Google
159
an9 otlters to kn.ow tha,t wkicA is future, tha,n
those who are the lords of futurit9." After·
wards you doubt, "whether divinit9 is so far
suhservieRt to men, as not to·he averse to some
becoming diviners frum .meal." You do not,
however, properly apprehend the abundance
of the power of the Gods, their transcendent
goodness, and the cause which comprehends
all things, when you denominate their provi-
dential care and defence of us subserviency.
And, besides this, you are ignorant of the mode
of divine energy, that it is not. drawn down
and converted to us, but that it has a separate
precedency, and gives itself, indeed, to its par-
ticipants, yet neither departs from itself, nor
becomes diminished, nor is ministrant to those
that receive it ; hut, on the contrary, uses alt
things as subservient to itself. The present
doubt also appears to me to be erroneous in
another respect, for supposing the works of the
Gods to be like those of men, it inquires how
they are eff'.ected. For because we are con-
verted to our works, and sometimes adhere to
the passions of the things which we provi-
dentiaJly attend to, on this account you badly
•conjecture that the power of the Gods is sub-
servient to the natures which are governed by
them. But this power is, never drawn down·
to its participants either in the production of
Digitized by Google
•
160
the worlds, or in the providential inspection o(
the realms of generation, or in predicting con-.
cerning it. For it imparts to all things good,
·and renders all things similar to itself. It
likewise benefits the subjects of its government
most abundantly, and without .envy, and by:
how much the more it abides in itself, by ro
much the more it is filled with its own proper
pel'fection. And it does not itself, indeed, he-·
come any thing belonging to its participants,
but it causes the things which receive it to
partake of its peculiarities, and preserves them
in an all-perfect manner. It also abides at the·
same time perfectly in itself, and comprehends
them at once in itself, but is neit~er vanquished
_
nor comprehended by any one of them. 1n·
vain, therefore, are men disturbed by a sus-
picion of this kind. For divinity is not divided
together with .the above mentioned modes of
divination, but produces all of them impartibly.
Nor does he effect different things at a different
time, in a distributed. manner, hut produces all
of them according to one energy, collectively
and at once. Nor is he detained about signs,
being comprehended in, or divided about, them;
but contains them in himself~ and in one order,
and comprehends them in unity, and produces
them from .himself, according to one invariable
wiJJ.
Digitized by Google
161
If, also, the· pG"'f'er·of. th·e Gods proceeds in
premanifestation as far 38 to things inanimate,
such. as pebble stones, rods•, pieces of wood,
stones, corn, or wheat, this very thing is most
admirat>le in .the presignift.cation of divine pro-
phesy ;:bec&U:Se it·intparts soul to things inani-
mate,. matfon to thin~ im_
moveable, and makes
ali things :
to be clear and known, to partake·or
reason, and to be defined by the measures of
intellection, .though possessing no portion of
reason from themselves. Another divine miracle
• ~ale observes. that this appears to have been a very
ancient mode of divination, and does not differ from that
which is comprehended un~er the term wood. Hence the
Scboliast, in Nicandri Theriaca·, says, " that the Magi and
&ythians predicted from the.wood of the tamarisk. For in
many places they pl'.edict from rods. And that Dinon, in
the 6rst book of his third Syntaxis, observes, " that the
Median diviners predict from rods." The Scholiast like.
wise adds the testimony ofJ\tetrodorus, who says, " that the
tamarh!k ,is a most ancient plant,·and th!lt the Egyptians, in
the solemnity of Jupiter, were crowned with the tamarisk,
and also the Magi among the Medes." He adds, " that
Apollo also ordained that prophets should predict from this
plant, and that in Lesbos he wears a tamarisk crown, has
often been seen thus adorned, and that in consequence of
this he was called by the Lesbians f'"tmca1ov, Muric11ion,
[from µ'llp1rc11, the tamarisk]." What the Scholiast here
says, is confirmed by Herodotus, in lib. iv. and else.where.
ro.this, also, what every where occurs about prediction
from the laurel pertains. For if the leaves of the laurel
when committed to the fire made a noise, it was considered
as a good omen, but if they made none, a bad one.
M
Digitized by Google
l6t
fllsa divmit.Y app~ars :to m.e to 'xhJb~t #m,)qgh
signs ·in these things. . For, as he.il<lntetiJlles
•JJakes some stupid ~an to apeak wi$.ely,
through wbi(:h it .becQ~ . maciif~' to .every
qqe, tilflt this is oot ~ c~ft$in h~Q but& di_
yine
work; thus, ~l$Q, he fe'f$l$ tl\r~ : thi~~
.whic,b, 1t.r~ deptived f:)f kn~wleclge•.enn~pUoM
whj~~ prececle all ~uwledge. .·A1ul, it tbe
·~arae time, he declaree .«uneo ,
tb- the ,sipe
·whi4h are exhibited are ~orthy of ·bt:1lief, and
that they are superior to nature, froro:·
which
he is exempt. Thus he makes things to be
known whicb are uatnrally unknown, and
things which are without knowledge gnostic.
Through them, also, he .fnserts in .us wisdo~
and through every thing which is in the world
excites our intellect to the truth of real beings,
of things which are in generation, and of future
even~. From these things, therefore, I tbiqk
it is manifest, that the mode of divioatwn ie
peffectly contrary to what you suspected it to
be. . For it is of a ruling and primordi~l natur~,
of an unrestrained power, and transcendent
nature, romprehending in itself all things, bat
not being comprehended by any thing; nor
~pcl~ed by. its pit.rticipants. For it asciepds
int~, and rules over, all things simultaneously;
and .without circumscription, and collectively
signifies _futurn events. . Heu~, fr.ow what has
Digitized by Google
163
heen s*id; you may easily dis8olve these vulgar
doubts, "
wbfoh disturb niost men, and may in a
becoming manner eleVa.te yourself to the in-
tellectual, divine, and irreprehensible presigni- .
6eation ·ofthe Gods from all things. Through
this, therefore, we have evinced, that divinity is
not dtawrt down to the signs employed by
divination.
CHAP. XVIII.
ANOTHER contest~ however, awaits us, ·not less
than that in which we· have been hefQre en-
gaged, and which you immediately announce,
concerning the causes of divination, " whether
a God, an angel, or a dtemon, or some otker
power, is present in manij'estations, or divina-
tions, or certain other sacred energies." But
our reply to your question _
is simply this, th~t
it is not possible for any thing to be performed
in a mariner adapted to sacred concerns ·in
divine works, without the presence of some
one of the more exceIJent natures, as inspect-
ing and giving completion to the sacred energy.
And where the felicitous operations are perfect,
sufficient to themselves, and · unindigent, of
these the Gods are the leaders. But where
they are media, and.in a small degree fall snort
• M 2
Digitized by Google
JM
of the extremes, they have angels aK the power&
that perfect and unfold them into light. And
'it is the province of dmmons to effect those
operations which rank as the last. But the
right performance of actions which are effected
in. a divine manner, is entirely to be ascribed
to some one of the more excellent natures.
For since it is not possible to speak rightly
about the Gods without the Gods, much less
can any. one perform works which are of an
equal dignity with divinity, and obtain the fore-
knowledge of every thing without [the inspiring
influence of] the Gods. For the human race
is imbecile, and of small estimation, sees but a
little, and possesses a connascent nothingness ;
and the only remedy of its inherent error, per-
turbation, and unstable mutation, is its par-
ticipation, as much as possible, of a certain
portion of divine light. But be who excludes
this, does the same thing as those who attempt
to produce soul from things inanimate, or to
generate intellect from things unintelligent.
For without the cooperation of a cause, he
constitutes divine works from things which are
not divine.
Let it be granted, therefore, that a God, a
dremon, or an angel, gives completion to more
f xcellent works, yet we must not on this ac- ··
count admitwhat you adduce as a thingacknow-
Digitized by Google
165
ledged, " that they 'fifect these things, in conse-
quence of heing drawn tkrougA v.s by tke neces-
sities wit/a wkick invocation is attended!' For
divinity is superior to necessity, and this is
likewise the case with all the choir of more
excellent natures that is suspended from him.
Nor is he alone exempt from the necessity
which is introduced by men, but also from that
which comprehends in itself the world ; be-
cause it is not the province of an immaterial
nature, and which does not receive any adven-
titious order, to he subservient to any necessity
introduced from any thing else. And in the
next place, invocation, and the things performed
by a scientific operator, accede and are con-
joined to more excellent natures through simi--
litude and alliance, and ·do not accomplish
their energies through violence. Hence, the
effects which are seen to take place in diviners,
do not happen as you think, from the scientific
theurgist being passively affected; nor is divi-
nation thus e~ected through necessity, passion
preoccupying the predictor ; for these things
are foreign _
from, and incongruous to, the es-
sence of more excellent natures.
Digitized by Google
l66
'CHAP. XIX:
BuT neither does the cause [of the energi~s] .of
more excellent natures subsist as a certain
middle instrument•, nor does he who invokes.
operate thro~gh him who prophesies ; for to
assert these things is impious. And it is mucJI
more true to say, that God is all things, is able
to effect alJ t.hings, and that he fills aU things
with himself, aop is alone worthy Qf sedq)OU*1
attention t, esteem, the energy of realion, and
• Gale, in bis translation, has totally mistaken the mean-
ing of the original in th.is place, and it is not unusual with
bim to do so. For the original is aU' ovci,."'f 11pyay9.; ri
µEuo11 E'!r' ro ri,,11 r:purro""'" a,r,ov, r:ai C(la (,,a rov 66t11n~ovr~(
o r:aXt.1v. This he thus translates: " Sed neque diceodum
est fatidicum anin'uim esse instrumeotum intermedium divi-
norum, sacerdotem vero invocantem ease taaquam eilicientem
causam." In consequence, also, of this mistake, be eD'One-
ously conceives that lamblichus dissents from himself.
t God is all things causally, and is able to .effect all
things. He likewise does produce all things, yet not by'
himaelf alone, but in conjunction with those divine powers
which continually germinate, as it were, from him, as from
a perennial root. Not that be is in want of these powers to
the 'efficacy of his productive energy, but the universe re-
quires their cooperation, in order to the distinct subsistence
of its various parts and different forms. For as the essence
of the first cause, if it be lawful so to speak, is foll of deity,
his immediate energy must be deific, and his first progeny
must be Gods. But as he is ineffable and superessential,
all things proceed from him ineffably and superessentially.
Digitized by Google
. 1-67
felicitous honour; that ~hich i&i human being
vile, of Iio account1 and ludicrous; when com-
pared with that which is divine. Hence 1
laugb, when I hear it said, that divinity is spon-
taneously present with certain persons or things, -
For progressions are conformable to the characteristics of
the natures from which they proceed. Hence· the cooperat-
ing energy of hill first progeny is necessary to the evolution
of thi~ .i!Jt~ eft'abJ.e, ~asential, and distinct s11baiatenoe.
The n&preme God, therefore, ii, aa Iamblichus justly ob-
serves, alone worthy ofaedulou attntion, eateem, the energy
of reaaon, and feli.cit01n liotaotir; but this .is not to the ex'-
cluaion of paying oppropriat~ attention and honov to other
powers that are subordinate to him, who largely participate
of his divinity, and are more or less allied to him. For in
reverencing and paying attention to these appropriately, we
also attend to and reverence him• . For that which we aedu-
lously attend to, honour, and esteem in them, is that alone
which is of a deified nature, and is therefore a portion, as it
were, of the ineffable principle of all things.
Gale, from not understanding this, exclaims, " if these
tlllngs are true, (mz. that God is alone worthy of sedulous
attention, &c.) aa they are, indeed, most true, to what pur-
pose, 0 lamblichus, is that mighty study and labour about
diilmons and other spirits 7" But the answer to this, by
regarding what has been above said, is easy. For mighty
study and labour about these intermediate powers is neces-
sary, in order to our union with their ineffable cause. For
&I we are but the dregs of the rational nature. and the first
principle of things is something so transcendent as to be
even beyond.eaence, it is imp.ossible that we should be
UDiied to hiJ9 without media; Vd. without the Gods, and
their perpetul attendants, who are on this account the ln&e
ICl1'iowi of ""'1&. For in a union with the s.opreme deity
our true salvati6D consist&.
Digitized by Google
168
either through the period of generation, or
through other causes. For thus that which is
unbegotten will no longer be more ex~ellent, if
.it is led by the period of generation ; nor will
it be primarily the cause of all things, if it ja
coarranged with certain things, according to
other causes. These assertions, therefore, are
unworthy of the conceptions which we should
· frame of the Gods, and foreign from the works
which are effected in theurgy•. But an in-
vestigation of this kind suffers the same thing
as the multitude suffer, about the fabric~tion
of the universe and providence. For not be...
ing able to learn what the mode is in which
these are effected, .and refusing to ascribe
human cares and reasonings to the Gods, they
wholly abolish the providential and fabricative
energy of divinity. As, therefore, we are accus-
tomed to answer these, that the divine mode
of production and providential inspection is
very different from that which is human, and
which it is not proper wholly to reject through
• For these conceptions and these works teaeb us, that in
reality we, through saered operations, approach to divinity,
•._ but that divinity does not draw near to us. Hei:iee Proclus
in Alcibiad. '" ra" 11:Xff/(1et1,, 11:cu '" raic al!7'ol/l'a'c ""°"""a'
.-~ 'II'-'" f"'"irai ro 8iiov, 'II""'" na,,an"'"f''""" nl a11ro.
i.e. " In invocations of the Gods, and when they are clearly
aeen, divinity, in a certaiD respect, appears .to approach io
us, though it is we that are extended to him."
Digitized by Google
169
ignorance, as if it had not from the first any
subsistence; thus, also, it may be justly· con-
.tended against you~ that aH prediction, and the
performance of divine works, are ·the works of
the Gods, as they are not effected through other
and these·human causes, but through such as
are alone known to the Gods.
CHAP. XX.
0MI1'TING, therefore, these things, we may
reasonably adduce a second cause, assigned
by you, of the above mentioned particulars :
viz. " that tke sovl says and imagines tkese
things, a1m tllat tkey are tke passiOr&S of it,
excited from small incentives." Neither, how-
ever, does nature possess these passions, nor
does reason admit them. For every thing
which is generated is generated from a certain
cause, and that which is of a kindred nature
derives its completion from a kindred nature.
,
But a divine work is neither casual, for a thing
of this kind is witpout a cause, and is not en-
tirely arranged, nor is it produced by a human
cause. For this is a thing foreign and sub-
ordinate; but that which is more perfect cannot
be produced from the imperfect. All wor~s,.
Digitized by Google
170
therefore, which have a similitude to divinity'
genninate from a divine catlle. For the human
soul is contained .bY one form, and is on all
sides darkened by body, which he who deno-
minates ,the river of Negligenc~ or the water
of' Oblivion, or ignorance ud.delirium•, or a
• Gale, in hia note on these ~ords, af'ter having obsened
that Porphyry S!lys, that ignorance, darkness, and folly
·attend the soul in its lapae into body ; and that, according
to Senius, the soul, when it begins to descend into body,
drinks of Colly and oblivion, quotes also lrenaius (lib. ii.
c. 69), who makes the following stupid remark: "Souls
entering into this life (it is said) drink of obliYion, before
they enter into bOdies, from the diemon who is above drl.s
ingress. But whence do you know this, 0 Plato, since your
soul also is now in body? For ifyou remember the dremon,
the cup, and the entrance, it is likewise requisite that you
should know the rest." To this it is easy to replyi that a
soul purified and enlightened by philosophy, like that or
Plato~ is able to recognise many things pertaining to its pre-
existent state, e•eo while in the present body, iii conse-
quence of partially emerging from corporeal dUkness aad
oblivion; but that ~t is not capable of knowing every thing
dutiactly, till it is perfectly liberated from the delirium or
the body. And Gale, no less sillily, adds, "respondebunt
Platonici baec omnia cognmisse Platonem ex narratione,
q• cireumferebatur de Ere Armenio, qui Le~es aquam
non biberaL i. t. " 1'he Platonists will answer that Plato
knew ~11 these things from the narration or the .Armenian
Eru* [ia the Republic] who did not drink of the wll1Br ol
I.Mae." l'ot .Plato did not obtain tllia knowledge from any .
historical narration, but from posseasing in a trall8cendent
degree the cathartic and theoretic virtues, and from em;r-
gizing enthusiastically (or according to a dirinely in11pired
energy) Chro~b the latter 9' these v.ittaea.
Digitized by Google
171
bond through passions•, or the privation of
life, or some other evil. will .not.by such. appel-
lations sufficiently e:xpress its turpitude. How,
therefore, is it possible that the soul, which is
detained by so many evils, can ever bec()me
sufficient to an energy of this kind? It is, in-
<leed, by uo means reasonable to suppose that
~be can. For if at any time we appear to .be
~apab.le of effecting this, it is alone through
participating of, and being illuminated by, the
Gods, that we enjoy the divine energy. He~e
the soul does not participate of divine works,
so far as she possesses her own proper virtue
and wisdom ; though if works ofthis kind per-
tained to the soul, every soul would perform
them, or that soul alone which possessed its
proper perfection. Now, however, neither of
these is sufficiently prepar~d for this Pl1~e ;
but even the perfect soul is imperfect as with
r~ference to divine energy. The theurgicenergy,
· • Agreeably to this, Porphyry says in his Alflopp.ai ~por
ra vof1Ta, or Avilicne1 to Intelligiblu, tfivx"I «aTd"r•i
'IT(JOt; TO t1t"1p.a, T!J l!ITC<;"f'Of"/ Tfl 'IT(JOt; TQ rath, Ta ar GVTOtf,-
And t/;vx11 EC1f11E11 . Eavr1111 E11 T~ """l'aTi. i, e." The soul is
bound to the body, by a conversion to the passions arising
frotll her union with it." And, " the soul bi11da herselfin
the body." Philolaus also says, that the ancient tbeologita
and prophets asserted, t..1t; cia ri11ar riµ,,,ptat: a 1/!vxa Ti"
f7t..1p.art ·11vvE,Ef11crai, iciu ica6a1up 111 11aµ.art TOVTt' Tdlariai ,'
'' that the soul is conjoined to the body on aecoimt or c6~
tain punishments, &Pd that it is burie~ in it as in a sep•~re.":
Digitized by Google
172
therefore, is a different thing, and the felicitous
accomplishment of divine works jg imparted
by the Gods alone. For if this were not the
case, the worship of the Gods would not, in
short, be requisite, but divine goods might be
present with us from ourselves, without the·
exercise of religion. If, therefore, these opi-
nions are insane and stupid, it is proper to
abandon an hypothesis of this kind, as not
afforoing a cause which deserves to be men-
tioned of the accomplishment of divine works.
CHAP. XXI.
Is, therefore, _
what you add in the third place
more.true ; viz. " that there is a certain mi:eed
form of kypostasis, consi,sting qf our soul MUI,
divine inspiration externall!J derived?" Consider
this then more accurately, lest we should be
de<:eived ·
.by it, geing impeded by its plausi-
bility. For wherever one thing is effected
from two, this one thing is wholly of a similar
species, nature, and essence. Thus the elements
which concur in the same thing, produce one
certain thing from many, and many souls co-
alesce in one total soul. That, however, which
is perfectly exempt, can never become one
Digitized by Google
173
with that which departs from ~tself•. ; so that
neither ~ill there be one certain furm ol hypos·
• This assertion, that the nature which is perfectly exempt
~ never become one with that which departs from itself, is
~pposed by Gale, who says that man is composed or:1oul
and ·~ody, and yet the latter is far inferior to, and I~ ex•
ceUent than, the former. But in adducing.this instance, he
clearly shows that be does not understand what lamblicbus .
says. For the human .soul being a medium between a cer-
tain impartible and partible essence, so far as it partakes of
the partible essence, has a certain alliance with body, and is
not perfectly exempt from it. But this is not the case with
divine inspiration and our soul : for the former in a perfectly
exempt manner transcends the latter. Let it, therefore, be
granted him that, as Psellus says, " hypoatatic union •OD•
ducts different essences or natures to one bypostasis," yet
such a union can never take place between two things, one
ofwhich has no habitude, proximity, or alliance to the other.
Gale was led into this mistake by not properly attending to
the words perfectly ezempt, TO 11'aYTEXt.1c d.!iP'l/llYOY, which
are here employed by lamblichus. But such mistakes are
usual with Gale, from his inaccurate and rambling manner
·of thinking. He likewise forgot, at the time he was writing
notes on Iamblicbus, that be was the master of a grammar
school, and not a philosopher:
·From what bas been ·said, the absurdity, also, of their
opinion is immediately obvious, who fancy that the divine
essence can be mingled and united with the mortal nature.
For if such a union were possible, it would benefit and
exalt the latter, bat injure and degrade the former. :Just as
in the union of the rational soul with the body (as Proclua
beautifolly observes ·in Tim. p. 339), " the former, by verg-
ing to a material life, kindles indeed a light in the body, bot
becomes herself situated in darkness; and by giving life to
the body, destroys both herself and her own intellect [in as
great a degree as these are capable ofreceiving destruction].
Digitized by Google
·174
. ta&is with' the soul arid divine itispiration. For
if divibity is unmingled, the soul wilt not be
mingled with it ; and if he is immutable, he
will not be changed through a concretion into
that which is common, from the simplicity of
his subsistence. Some, therefore, prior to us,
wer.e of opinion that certain small sparks excite
in us divine forms. It is impossible, however,
that these sparks, whether they are physical,
or iti some other way corporeal-formed, should
be transferred from things of a casual nature
to things which are divine. Bot in what is ·
now asserted by you, the soul is said to be a
concause of the divine c~mixture; and it is
e11~<)ep.t, this beiog admitted, that the soul be-
co91es of an equal dignity with the Gods, that
it gives a certain part to them and receiv~s a
part from them, and that it also a1fords a
measure to natures more excellent than itself,
and is it~e)f bounded by them. That likewise
follows which i~ asserted by some, and is most
dire, that the Gods precedaneously subsisting
in the order of elements, are inherent in their
For thus the mon.l nature participa'f.e.ii or intellect, but the •
ia'8llectual part of death, and the whole, as Plato observes
in the Laws, becomes a prodigy comp0sed of the mortal and
tbe immortal, of the intellectual and that whieh is deprived of
intelleet. For this pbyaical law which J,inds the soul to the
body ia the death ofthe immortal life, b'at Yivi6es the mortal
body."
Digitized by Google
176
eftects, aod lhere will be a certaiD thing pro-+
doced in time, and from a ,mixture according
to time, which will·conte.in the G~ds io i*"lf.
What, likewise, ·is this oomingled form of s.O..
sietenee? For if it is both [sool and divineti•
spi!Pation externallyderived}, it will not be. .ooe
thing cobsisting of two, but a ·certai&·compo--
site, and a coacervation from two things. ~ut
if it is as something different from both, eternal
natures wiU be mutable, and divine natures
will in no respect <!iffer .from physical sub-
stances in generation•: And as it is al?surd
.•. Here again Gale, from not understandiiig, ~ppose11
Iamblicbus. · For be says, " sed nee hoc sequitur. S. Max-
imas,\abi hypostatic.iam uoionelll dec)ant; hiec,inqnit, c;er-
nuntur in corpore et anima. Una ex utroque confit hypos-
taSis, eomposita. Servat autem in se naturaa& , perfeoia01
Otr.iua.qQO IC. Corporis et anime, ica' TIJV TOl#T6'Y aui~p-v
a~•upro11 ice' ra '°'"'µera atWl'f•pra KA• qcnryx.,ro, ~•.e~
" Bm neither dees this follow. S. H.axim!Hl, where bit ,.._
ft>lds hypostatic union, say• the~ thiogs are penieived ia tile·
soul and body. One cqmposite hypostaitis is producecl frflll
botla. · But .this hypoatasis ~"es in itself tile peJ.'lf~t
natlire of each, and likewise the·difference of these UJUqift-·
gled, ani:l the peculiaritiea unmiogled and unconfused." Thi~
hypoatatic anion, however, as we have before obser.ved,.
cannot take place ~tween diviae inspiration a_.d the SQUl11
beeause the fim•er is -,erfeClly ueinpl from &he latter.
G•le adds, " Qurero autem qwd velit Iamblichus ptll'
aµta.u 1 Opinor, iJivx.,,.,. et r9v i£w81v 8ual' wav•iqv.
Non facile evincet ..,.,.,,,oiav e.sse ociiov n, ulpote q'Qle sit
transiens dei actio.'' i.e." I ask what Iamhlichas me!lQi
by both. I think the soul axd divine· iupiraticm eztet'Mlllf
Digitized by Google
176
to admit that an eternal nature is produced
through generation, it is still more ab&urd to
suppose that any thing which consists ofeternal
natures can be dissolved. Neither, therefore,
is this opinion concerning divinatio~ by any
means reasonable ; and besides this, it is also
paradoxical, whetbe1· it is considered as one
supposition or as two~
CHAP. XXII.
You say, therefore, " that tke s<nd generates
~lie power wkich kas an imaginative perception
qffwturity, tkrw.gh motions of this kind, or.
derived. Bot be will nQt easily prove that inspiration is
something eternal, because it is a transient energy or God."· .
. Gale is right'in his conjecture, that lamblicbm by tb,e word·
6otl in this place, means the soul and divine inspiration ex~ ·
temally derived; for it can admit of no other meaning:
but when be adds, that inspiration ·cannot be something
etemal, because it is a transient energy oC.dirinity, he shows·
himself to be as bad a theologist as be is a pbiloeopber.
For God being an eternal, or rather a supereternal nature,
his energies have nothing to do with time and its transitive
progressions, but are stably aimultaneous; so that transition
does not exist in his inspiring influence, but in the recipients
of it, these being of a temporal and mutable nature. Hence
it is just as absurd to call any energy or'divinity transient,
as it would be to say that the light of the snn is transient,
becauae it shines through diaphanoua, but not through
opaque, substances.
Digitized by Google
177
tkat tlie things which are adduced from mattet•
constitute dtemons·tkr~k the po'wers tltat are
inllerent i11 tkem, and especially things adduced
frcm the matter which is taken from animals."
It appears to ~e, ·however, that what is now
asserted by you e:xhibits a dire il1ega1ity with
reference to the whole of theology and the
theurgic energy. For one absurdity in it, and
which is the first that presents itselfto the view,
is this,. that it makes dremons to be generable
and corruptible. And another, which is more
dire than this, is that things which are prior
will .be produced from , things which are pos-
terior to themselves. For dremons exist prior
to soul, and to the powers which are distri-
buted about bodies. In addition to these
things, also, how can the energies of a partible
soul which is detained in body, become es-
sence, and be by themselves separate out of
soul? Or bow can the powers which are di- ·
vided· about, be separated from bodies, though
they have· their very being in bo~ies? And
who is it that liberating them from a corporeal
condition of subsistence, again collects the cor-
poreal dissolution, and causes it to coalesce in
one thing? For thus a thing of this kind will
he a dremon, who will have an existence prior
to his being constituted. This assertion, like-.
wise, is attended with certain·common doubts.
N
Digitized by Google
178
For how can divination be . produced from
things which have no divining power? ~ And how.
can soul be generated.from things which are
without soul? And, in short, how can things
which are more perfect be the progeny of such
as are more imperfect? The mode, likewise,
of production appears to ·me to be impossible.
For it is impossible that essence ·should be
produced through the motions of the soul, and
through the powers which are in bodies. For
from things which are without essence, it is
·impossible that essence should be generated.
Whence, also, does the imagination, receiv-
ing from a certain thing a. divining power, be-
come prophetic of futurity? For we do not
see that any one of the things which are sown
through generation possess any thing more
than what is imparted to it by its first generat-
ing ca-Qse. But, in the present instance, the
imagination will receive a certain more excel-
lent addition from that which has no exis~nce.
UnlesR some one should say, that dremons
preside over the matter which is derived from
animals, and that when this matter is adduced,
the presiding .dremon is.sympathetically moved
towards it. According to this opinion, there-
fore~ dremons·are not generated from the powers
in bodies; but preceding,and having an exist-
ence prior to bodies, they are moved in con-
Digitized by Google
179
formity to them. Let it, however, be admitted,
that dremons are thus sympathetic, yet I do
not see after what manner there will be some-
thing true respecting futurity. For the tore_.
knowledge and premanifestation of futurity is
not the province of a copassive and material
p~wer, which is detained in a certain place and
body ; but, on the contrary, this pertains to a
power which is liberated from alJ these. Such,
therefore, are the corrections of this opinion.
CHAP. XXIII. ,
THE animadversions which are after this ad-
duced, at first, indeed, doubt about the mode
of divination, but as they proceed, endeavour
entirely to subvert it. · We shall, therefore,
discuss both these. And, in the first place,
we shall begin to dissolve ihe former of these
doub(s. " For in sleep, when .we are not·em-
p'lo9ed about any thing, we sometimes obtai,n a
knowledge of tlte·future." Not that the cause
of divination is derived both from us and ex-
ternally: for in things the principle of which
definitely subsists in us, and that which is con- ·
· sequent is externalJy derived, if these two h'ave
a coarrangement and connexion with each other,
in this case the works of the two are definitely·
N2
Digitized by Google
180
elfected, and the things ,which are suspended
from them follow their precedaneous causes.
But when the cause is independent of us, and
preexists by itse1f, the end is not defined on
account of us, but the whole depends on things
external to us. Now, therefore, since the truth
which is in dreams does not entirely concur
with our works, but frequently shines forth
from itself, it s}\ows that-divination is externally
derived from the Gods, that it possesses an in-
dependent power, and that it benevolently un-
folds futurity when it pleases, and in such a
way as it pleases. rhese things, therefore,
should have an answer of this kind.
CHAP. XXIV.
IN what follows, while you endeavour to unfold
divination, you entirely subvert it. · For if a
passion of the soul is admitted to be the cause
of it, what wise man will attribute to an un-
stable and stupid thing order1y and stable fore-
knowledge? Or how is it possible that the
soul, which is in a sane and stable condition
according to its better powers, viz. those that
are intellectual and dianoetic, should be igno-
rant offuturity ; but that the soul which suffers
according to disorderly and tumultuous mo-
..
Digitized by Google
181
tions, should have a knowledge of what is
future? For what has passion in itselfadapted
to the theory of beings? And is it not rather
an impediment to the more true intellection of
things? Farther stilJ, therefore, if the things
contained in the world were constituted through
:passions, in this case passions, through their
similitude, would have a certain. alliance to .
them. But if they are produced through rea-
sons and through forms, there will be another
foreknowledge of them, which is Jiberated from
all passion. Again, passion alone perceives that
which is present, and which now has a subsist-
ence ; but foreknowledge apprehends things
which do not yet exist. Hence, to foreknow is
different from being passively affected.
Let us, however, consider your arguments
in support of this opinion. That " tke senses
are occupied," therefore tends to the contrary
to what you say; for it is an indication that no
human phantasm is then excited. But " the .
fumigations wliich are introduced," have an alli-
ance to divinity, but not to the soul of the
·spectator. And " tke invocations" do not ex-
cite the.inspiration of the reasoning power, or
corporeal passions in the recipient ; for they
are perfectly unknown and arcane, and are
alone known to the God whom they invoke.
But that" not all men, but those tkat are more
Digitized by Google
182
nmple and !JO'Ung are ·mpre adapted to divi'IUlr
ti<m," manifests that such as these are more
.pr~p~red for ·the rec~ption of .the extern~ly
·~cceding and inspiring spirit. From these in-
dications, however, you do not truly conjecture
that enthusiasm is a passfon. For it. follows
from these signs, that the influx of it, in the
same· mann~r as the inspiration, is externally
derived. In this way, therefore, these things
subsist.
CHAP. XXV.
THAT which follows in the next place, de-
scends from a divine alienation of mind to an
ecstasy of the reasoning power which leads it
_
to a worse condition, and absurdly s~ys, " tAat
the cause ofdivination is tke mania which hap-
pens in diseases." For, as we may conjecture,
. it assimilates enthusiasm t() the redunda.ncy of
the black bile, to the aberrations of intoxica-
tion, and to the fury which happens from 111ad
dogs. It is necessary, th.
erefore, from the be-
ginning, to divide ec..stasy into two species,.one
of which leads to a worse condition of. being,
and fills us with stupidity and folly; ~ut .the
other imparts goods which are more honour-
able than human temperance. . One. species
Digitized by Google
18.'J
also deviates to a disorderly, ronfused, anq
·IW\terial. motion ; hut the other gives. itaelf.to
the cause .which rules over the orderly distri-
bution of things in the world. And the one,
indeed,. as being .deprived of knowledge, :wan-
ders from wisdom ; but .the other. conjoins
,with .natures that transcend all our wisdom.
The .one, likewise,·is unstable, but the other is
immutable. . The one is' pretematuraJ, but the
oth~r is above nature. The one draws dowR
the soul, but the other elevates>it. And the
one entirely separates us from a divine allot-
ment, but the other connects us with it..
Why, therefore, does your assertion so much
wander from the proposed hypothesis, as to
decline from things primary aDd good to the
last evils of insanity? For in what is enthusi-
asm similar to melancholy, or intoxication, or
any other delirium excited by the body ? · Or
what prediction can ever he produced from
diseases of·the body ? Is not a derivation of
tllia kind a perfect corruption, but divine in-
spiration the perfection .and salvation of the
soul? And does not depraved enthusiasm take
· place through imbecility, but the enthusiasm
·which is more excellent through a plenitude
of power:? In short, .the latter being quies--
'Cent, according to its own proper life and· in-
telligence,' gives itself to be used by another
Digitized by Google
184
[power which is superior to itself]; but·the
former, euergiziog according to its proper ener-
gies, renders these most depraved and turbu-
lent. This, therefore, is a difference the most
' manifest of all pthers, because all the works of ·
diVine natures differ [in a transcendent degree]
from the works of other beings. For as the
more excellent genera are exempt from all
others, thus also their energies do not resemble
those of any other nature. Hence, when you
speak of divine mania, immediately remove
from it all human perversions. And if you
ascribe a sacred "sobriety and vigilance" to
divine natures, you must not consider human
sobriety and vigilance as similar to it. But by
no means compare the diseases of the body,
such as suffusions, and the imaginations 'ex-
cited by diseases, with divine imaginations.
·For what have the two in common with .each
other? Nor again,- must you compare " a•
ambiguous state," such as that which takes
place between a sober condition of mind and
ecstasy, with sacred visions ofthe Gods, which
are defined by one energy. But ·neither must
you compare the most manifest surveys of the .
Gods with the imaginations artificially pro-
cured by enchantment. For the latter have ,
neither the energy, nor the essence, nor the
trLith of the things that are seen, but extend ·
Digitized by Google
18.5
:mere phantasms, . as far as to appearances
only.
All such doubts as these, however, which
are adduced foreign to the purpose, and tend
from contraries to contraries, we do not con-
sider as pertinent to the present hypothesis.
-Hence, as we have shown the unappropriate-
ness of them, we do not think it requisite to
discuss them any farther, because they are con-
.tentiously introduced, and not with philosophi-
cal investigation.
CHAP. XXVI.
THERE are many other contentious innovations
also, which may be the subject of wonder.
But some one may justly be astonished at the
contrariety of opinions produced by admitting
either that the truth of divination is with en-
chanters, the whole of which subsists in mere
appearances alone, but has no real existence;
or that· it is with those who are incited by
passion or disease, since every thing which
they have the boldness to utter ·is fraudulently
asserted. For what principle of truth, or what
auxiliary ofintelligence, either.smaller or great-
er, can there be in those who are thus insane?
It is necessary, however, not to receive truth.of
Digitized by Google
186
s.
uch,a. k~nd as that whioh. may be fortuirous;
for this, it is said, may happen to those that.are
raihly b61'ne along. Nor must such truth be
admitted as that which subsists between agents
~md patients, when they are concordantly ho-
moldgous '.with each other; for truth of·this
kind.is .present with the senses and imagina-
tions:Of ~i.rnals. Hence this truth has nothing
peculiar, or divine,. or . superior to common
.nature.'· But the truth of divination is estab-
lished in energy with invariable sameness;.has
the whole knowledge of beings present with it,
and is connascent with the essence of things.
It likewise employs stable reasons, and per-
fectly, aptly, and definitely knows all things.
This truth, therefore, is adapted to divination.
Hence, it is very far from being a certain uatu-
nl prescience,.such as the preperception which
iii.inherent in some animals ·or earthquakes and
r.ain. For this arises from ·sympathy, "1hen
-certain animals are moved in conjunction -with
certain parts and powers of the universe ; or
"'hen; ~ through the acuteriess'f>f a certain sense,
· they.antecedently .perceive things which :ha~
pen in 'the '. air, before they a~cede to places
ahcmt the eartb.
- If, therefore, these assertions are true, th<>ugh
we derive from. nature impressions by which
we·obtain a knowledge of things, or come into
Digitized by Google
187
·~ontact .,wiUi futu.rity, it is .not pl'Qper to con-
8ider an impression of this kind.as prophetic
foreknowledge; but it i$, il)d~, similar to
this..kuowledge, yet falls short Qf it. in stability
end truth, is conversant with that which fre-
quently, bnt not always, hap.pens, aod appi.
hends the truth in certain, but not in all things.
Hence, if there iit a discipline. which fore~
the future in tlie arts, as, for instance, in the
.piloting or medical art, this does uot all pertain
to divine .foreknowledge. For.it conjectures
.the future by certain signs, and these such u
ate not always credible, nor such as have that
of which they a!e the. signs, connected with
them with invariable sameness. But with di-
.vine providence, a ·. stable kno:
wledge of th~
future. pre~des; [and :this is atte;uded .with]
l\Jl imnwtahle {~ith S'1Spended from causf;'s ; aa
indiss()l.u\>J~ co,mprehension of all things in au ;
.an<l ~ p«?rpetually abiding apd invariable know-
ledg~ 9f all things as pre.$ent and deioite.
CHAP. XXVII.
MOREOVER, neither is it sufficient to assert,
" that tudure, art, and the sympatll9 ef tmng;
in the "*verse, as if they were·tlie porn of MU
ani~ ·oonlain prtmattifestati<ms if· cmain
Digitized by Google
!88
. .
thing1 with ref
erenee to each other ; nor tliat
bomea are 10 prepared, tAat tlu!re ii a presipfi·
catio11 of 1orne b!J ot'/iers." For these things,
which are very clearly seen, exhibit a certain
divulsed vestige ofdivine prediction, in a greater
or less degree ; since it is not possible for any
thing·to be perfectly destitute of divine divina·
tion. But as in all things the image of good
exhibits a similitude of divinity ; thus, likewise,
in all things a certain obscure or more manifest
image of divine prediction shines forth to the
'View. Nevertheless, no one of these is such as
the divine species of divination; nor must the
one, divine, and unmingled form of it be cha·
racterized· from the many phantasms which
proceed from it into generation. Nor, if there
are · certain other false and deceitful resem·
blances, which are stilJ more remote from
reality, is it tit to adduce these in forming a
judgment· of it~ But the divine form or spe-
cies of divination is to be apprehended accord·
ing to one intelligible and immutable truth;
and the mutation which subsists differently at
different times is to be rejected as unstable
and unadapted to the Gods. If, therefore,
that which is truly divination is a thing of this
kind, i. e. is a divine work, who would: .not
blush to ascribe it to nature, which produces
its effects without reason and . intellect, as if
Digitized by Google
189
nature elaborated .in us a certain prophetic
apparatus; and inserted this aptitude in some
things in a greater but in others in a less de-
gree? For in .those things in which men re-
ceive auxiliaries from nature-
in the attainment
of their proper perfection, in these, also, certaill
aptitudes of nature precede ; but in things in:
which no human work is proposed [to be·
etfected], in these neither does the end pertain
to us. And when a certain good, which. is
more ancient than our nature, has a prior.
arrangement, it is not possible in this case that
a certain natural exceJlence should become the.
prepared subject of it. For in those things of
which there are perfections, in these imperfect .
preparations are ingenerated; but both these
are the habits of men [and not ofGods]. Hence,
of those things which ar~ not present with us,
so far as·we are men, there will not be a pre-
parative from nature. There is not, .therefore,·
a natural seed in us of divine prediction. . If
some one, however, should in a more general
way assert, that there is a certain human divi-
nation, of this there will be a certain physical
preparation. But with respect to that which
may be truly denominated divination, and which
pertains to the God's, it is not proper to think
that this is. ingrafted by nature. For both
other things, and also the indefinite, according
Digitized by Google
190
to the more and the less, a.re the attendants on
this. · Hence it is separated from divine divi-
nation, which abides in stahle boundaries. On
this account, also, it is requisite sirenuously to
contend against .him who asserts that divination
originates from us; You.likewise adduce dear
indications ofthis from the works performed: in·
predicting what is future. ·For you say, cc th'at
~ose who invoke [the divinities for ·the purpose$
ofdivination] have about them stones and kerbs,
!Jind .certain. sacred bonds, 'lohick they also dis-
solvt, open places tliat are shut, anJ change tke·
deliberate intenlions ef the recipients, so as to·
....,, rmader tkem wortn9, though tke9 ·were before
'···-...,f!epraved." All these particulars, therefore,
;ignify that the inspiration accedes externally.
lt:ts requisite, however, not only to preassume
this, bat also to define what the inspiration of
divine origin is, which produces divine divina-
tion. For if this is not done, we shall not pre-
viously know what·its peculiarity is, in conse-
quence ofnot attributing tO it its proper charac-
ter, and adapting this to it as a certain seal.
And this, indeed, has been accurately done by
us a little before.
Digitized by Google
191
CHAP. XXVIII.
You adduce, however, as a thing by no means
t~ ·be despised, " tlu artificers of ejficaciow
images." But I should wonder if these wer~
admitted by any one of the theurgists wfro·
survey the true forms of the Gods. For why
· should any one exchange. truly existing beings
for images, and descend from the first to the last
of things? Or do we not know that all things'
effected by an adumbration of this kind, hav&
an obscure subsistence, are the phantasms only
of that which is true, and appear to be good,
but in no respect are so? Other things, also,
of this kind that accede, are borne along in a
flowing condition of being; but obtain nothing
genuine, or perfect, or manifest. But this is
evident from the mode of their production:
for not divinity, but man is the maker of them.
Nor are they produced from uniform and in-
telligible essences, but from matter, which is
assumed for this purpose. What good, there-
fore, can germinate from matter, and from the
material and corporeal-formed powers which
are. in bodies? Or is not that which derives
its subsistence from human art, more imbecile
than men the~selves, who impart existence to
it? By what kind of art, likewise, is this image
Digitized by Google
192
fashioned? For it is said, indeed, to befashioned
by demiurgic art ; but this is effective of true
essences, and not of certain images. Hence the
image-producing art is distant by a great inter-
val from the seminal production ofrealities. Be-
sides, neither does it preserve a certain analogy.
with divine fabrication. For divinity does not
fabricate all things, either through the celestial
physical motions, or through a partial matter,
or through powers thus divided; but he pro-
duces the worlds by conceptions, will, and im-
material forms, and through an eternal and .
supermundane soul. The maker of images,
however, is said to elaborate them through
the revolving stars. But the thing does not
in reaJity subsist so as it appears to do. For
since there are certain infinite powers in the
celestial Gods, the last genus of all the powers
in them is physical. But again, of this power
one portion being inherent in spermatic rea-
, sons [or productive powers], and prior to these
reasons being established in immoveable na-
tures, essentially precedes generatio,n. But
another portion being inherent in sensible and.
visible motions and powers, and in celestial
efBuxions and qualities, ·has dominion over the
whole visible order of things. This last power,
therefore, in all these rules over the circum-.
terrestrial manifest generation in places about
Digitized by Google
193
the earth, Many other arts, however, as ·for
instance,.the·medical. and gymnastic~ use this
power, which has dominion over visible gene-
ration, and the qualities of the efiluxioris sent
from the heavens employ it, and likewise· aJI
such arts as in their operations communicate
with nature. And moreover, the image-making
art attracts a certain VE;ry obscure genesiurgic
portion from the celestial effiuxions.
Such, therefore, as the truth is, such also it
is requisite to unfold it to others. · It must be
said, then, that the maker of im.ages neither
uses the celestial circulations, nor the powers
which are inherent in them, nor· those powers
• Hippocrates was of opinion that physicians ought to be
skilled in astronomy. And Galen derides those physicians
who deny that astronomy is necessary to their art. See his
treat1se entitled .Si quis sit Medicus eundem esse pbiloso-
phum. And in liK viii. cap. 20, of his treatise De lngenio
Sanitatis, he calls physicians that are ignorant of astronomy
homicides. But by astronomy here, both Hippocrates and
Galen intended to signify what is now calledastrology. Roger
Bacon also, in bis Epistle to Pope Clement, says, " Opera
qure fiunt hie inferim1, variantur secundum di\•ersitatem
coolestium constellationum, ut opera medicinre et alkimire."
i. e. " The works which ;\re performed in these inferior
realms are varied according to the diversity of the celestial
constellations, as, for instance, the works of medicine and
alchemy." If, however, as Galen says, and doubtless with
great truth, physicians that are ignorant of this are homi-
cides, how numerous must the medical homicides be of the
present age !
0
Digitized by Google
194
which are naturally established about them;
nor, in short, is it possible to come into con-
tact with them. But he artificially, and not
tbeurgically, applies himselfto the last eftluxioos
which openly proceed from the nature of them,
about the last part of the universe. For these
effluxions, I think, being mingled with a partial
matter, are capable ofbeing changed and trans·
formed differently at different times. They ·
likewise receive the transposition, from some
things to others, of the powers which are in
partial natul'es. The variety, however, of such
like energies, and the c6mposition of a multi-
tude of material powers, are not only entirely
separated from divine fabrication, but also from
natural production. For nature produces her
proper works coJlectively, and at once, and
accomplishes all thing~ by simple and incom-
posite energies. Hence it remains that a com-
mixture of this kind, about the last and mani-
fest celestial effluxion, and about the things
which are moved by a celestial nature, is arti-
ficial.
CHAP. XXIX.
WHY, therefor~, does the maker of images, who
effects these things, desert himself, though he
is better ~han these images, and consists of
_rngitizedbyGoogl~ _
195
things of a more excelient nature, and. confide
in inanimate idols, which are inspired with the
representation alone of life, contain a renovated
harmony, and which is externally multiform,
and are in reality diurnal? Shall we say that
Somethinggenuine and true is inherent in them?
Nothing, however, which is fashioned by human
art is genuine and pure. But you will say,
that simplicity and uniformity of energy pre-
dominate in the whole of their composition.
This is very far from being the case. For the
idol, according to its visible composition, is
mingled from all.various and contrary qualities:
Shall we say then, that a certain pure and per_.
feet power is manifest in them? By no means.
For a thing of this kind possesses an adven-
titious multitude of effiuxions, collected from
many places, and which shows itself to be im-
becile and ev~nescent. But if these particu-
lars, ·which we have enumerated, are not found
to take place in images, is stability present
with them, as it is said to be [by the patrons of
these images]? By no means, likewise, is this
the case. For these idols are extinguished
with much greater rapidity than the images
which are seen in mirrors. For they are im-
.mediately formed by the accession of fumiga-
tions from exhaling vapours ; but when the
fQmigation ismingled with, anddiffused through,
o"'-2.
Digitized by Google
196
the whole air, then the idol is likewise imme-
diately dissolved, and is not naturally adapted
to remain for the smallest .portion of time.
Why, therefore, should the man who is a lover
of truth, pay attention to these useless delu-
sions ? I, indeed, do not think them to be of
any value. For if the makers of these images
know that the fictions about which they ·are
busily employed, are nothing more than the
formations .of passive matter, the evil arising
from an attention to them will be simple.· But
in addition to this, these idol-makers are simi-
lar to t-he images in which they confide. And
if they pay attention to these idols as if they
were Gods, the absurdity wiJl be so great, as
neither to be etfable by words, nor to be en-
dured in deeds. For a certain divine splen-
dour never illuminates a soul of this kindt be-
cause it is not adapted to be imparted to things
which are entirely repugnant to it; neither
have those things which are detained by dark
phantasms a place for its reception. This de-
lusive formation, therefore, of phantasms, will
be conversant with shadows, which are very
remote frotrl the truth.
Digitized by Google
197
CHAP. XXX.
You say, however, " that the makers of images
observe tke motion Oftlie celestial bodies, and ca1i
tell from the concurrence of what star, with a
certain star or stars, predictions will be true or
false; and also wketlier tke tkirigs tliat are per-
formed will be inanities, or significant and e.fli-
cacious."' But neither wilJ these phantasms,
Gil this account, possess any thing divine~ For
the last of the things which are in genentiQn
are moved in conjunction with the celestial
courses, and are copassive .with the efiluxions
which descend from the heavenly bodies. More-
over, if any one considers these things accu-
rately, he will find that they demonstrate the
contrary to what is here asserted. For how is
it possible that things which are in every re-
spect mutable, and this with facility, and which
are all-variously turned by external motions,
so as to become inefficacious, or prophetic, or
significant, or effective, or at different times
different, should contain in themselves, by par-
ticipation, any portion, however small, of divine
power? What then, are the powers which are
inherent .in matter the elements of dremons?
By no means : for no partial sensible bodies
generate dremons ; but much more are these
Digitized by Google
198
generated and guarded by dremons. Neither is
any man able to fashion, as bya machine, certain
forms of dremons; but~ on the contrary, he is.
rather fashioned and fabricated by them,.so far
88. he participates of a sensible body. Bot
neither is a certain dremoniacal multi.tude geoe:-
rated from the elements of sensibles; since, on
the. contrary, this multitude .is simple, and
energizes uniformly about composite natures.
Hence, neither wiIJ it have sensibles more an;
cient, or more stable than itself; but being
itself mor~ excellent than sensibles, both iq.
dignity and power, it imparts to them the ·per-
manency which they are able to receive. Unless
indeed, you denominate idols dremons, not
rightly employing an appellation of this kind.
For the nature ·of dremons is one thing, am~
that of idols another. The order of each, like-
wise, is very difterent. Moreover, the leader of
idols is different from the great leader of dre-
mons. And this, also, you admit. For you
say, "that no God or dt.emon.is drawn doum "8·
ido/,s." What, therefore, will be the worth ofa
sacred deed, or of the foreknowledge of what
is future, if it is entirely destitute of divinity
and a d&lmon ? So tha~ it is requisite to ~now
·what .the nature is of this wonder-working art,
but by no means to use or confide in it.
Digitized by Google .
100
CHAP. XXXI.
AGAIN, therefore, still worse..than this is the
explanation ofsacred operations, which assigns
as the cause of divination, '' a certaia genw of
dtniaons, wmcA is naturally fra'IMlulent, owai-
j<WtJ&, and various, and tAJmch assumes the appear-
~ of Gods and. d«mons, and tAe 1ouls of the
decea.aed." I shall, therefore, relate to you, in
Jmswer to this, what I once heard from the
prophets of the Chaldeans.
Such Gods as are truly divinities, are a.lone
the givers of good; a.lone associate with good
men, and with those that are purified by the
sacerdotal art, and from these amputate all
vice, and every. passion. When these, also,
impart their light, that which is evil, and at.the
same time dmmoniacal, vanishes from before '
more exeeJJent natures, in the same manner as
darkness when light is present; nor is it able
to disturb tbeurgists in the smallest degree,
. who receive from this light every virtue, obtain
worthy manners, b~come orderly .and elegant
in their actions, are liberated from passions,
and purified from every disorderly motion, and
from atheistical and unholy conduct. But
thoee who are themselves Bagitious, and who
leap, as it were, to things of a divine natur~ in
Digitized by Google
200
an illegal and disorderly manner, these, through
the imbecility oftheir proper energy, or through
indigence of inherent power, are not abJe to
associate with the Gods. Because, Jikewise,
they are excluded, through certain defilements,
from an association with pure spirits, they be-
come connected . with evil spirits, are filled
from them with the worst kind of inspiration.
at·e rendered depraved and unho1y, become
replete with intemperate pleasures, and·every
kind of vice, are emulous of manners foreign
to the Gods, and, in short, become similar to
the depraved dremons, with whom they are
connascent. These, therefore, being .full of
passions and vice, attract to themselves, through
aJliance, depraved spirits, and are excited by
them to every kind of iniquity.. They are also
increased in wickedness by each other, .like a
circle conjoining the beginning to the end, and
similarly making anequal compensation. Hence
deeds which are the nefarious offences of im-
piety, which are introduced into sacred .works
in. a disorderly manner, and which are also
confusedly performed by those who betake
themselves to su~h works, and at one time, as
it seems, cause one divi,nity to be present in-
stead ofanother, and again, introduce depraved
dremons instead of Gods, whom they call equal
to the Gods (aVTi6eovc)~such deeds as these you
Digitized by Google
201
should never adduce in a discourse concerning
sacerdotal divination. For good is more con-
trary to evil than to that which is not good.
As, therefore,.the sacrilegious- are in the,most
eminent degree hostile to the religious cultiva-
tion of the Gods ; thus, also, those who are
·conversant with dremons who are fraudulent,
,and the ·causes of intemperance, are undoubt-
edly hosti~e to theurgists. For from these
every depraved spirit departs, and when they
are present, is entirely subverted. Every vice,
too, and every passion, are by these perfectly
·amputated: for a pure participation of good is
present with the pure, and they are supernally
·filled with truth from a divine fire. These,
therefore, suffer no impediment from evil spirits,
nor are these spirits any obstacles to the goods
-of their ~ouls. Nor are theurgists disturbed by
pride, or flattery, or the enjoyment of exhala-
tions, or any violence; but all these, as if
struck by lightning, yield and recede, without
touching the theurgist, or beingable to approach
to them. Hence this genus of divination is
undefiled and sacerdotal, and is truly divine.
This, also, does not, as you say it does, require
me, or any other as an arbiter, in order that I
may prefer it_to a multitude of other things;
but it is itself exempt from all things, is super-
natural, and has an eternal preexistence, neither
Digitized by Google
202
rece1v10g a certain opp0sition, nor a certain
transcendency, which bas a prearrangement in
many things, because it is of itself liberated,
and uniformly precedes all things. And to
this it is requisite that you, and every one w.bo
is a genuine lover of the Gods, should give him-
self wholly ; since by this mean irreprehensible
trnth will be obtained in divinations; and per-
fect virtue in souls ; and through both these,
an ascent will be afforded to tbeurgists to in- .
telligible fire, which ought to be preestablished
as the end of all foreknowledge, and of eyery
theurgic operation. Hence you in vain adduce
the opinion of those who think that divination
is eft'ected by an evil d;emoo, since these do
not deserve to be mentioned in speculations
concerning the Gods. At the same time, lik~
wise, they are ignorant of the means of distin-
guishing truth from falsehood, because they are
from the beginning nourished in darkness, and
are wholly incapable of know\ng the principles
from which these are producecJ. Here, there-
tbre, we shall terminate our discussion concern-
ing the mode of divination.
rngitizedbvGoogle _
i03
SECTION IV.
CHAP. I.
;L,gT qs then, in the next place, consider the
opposing arguments, what they are, and what
re~on they possess. And if we should dis..
cuss some things a little more abundantly, in
consequence of speaking freely and at leisure,
it is requisite that you should promptly attend
tQ, and endure what, we say. For it is neces-
sary that great laboqr should. be bestowed.op.
the gre~test disciplines, and that they should
be accurately explo:red for a loog time, if yon.
intend to know them perfectly. Do you, there-
. . .
fore, conformably to the present hypothesis,
propose the arguments wh~ch occasion the
doubt, and I will answer you. Say then, " it
very mwck perplezes me to understmul lww a.
perior beings, wlum invoked, are commanded bu
tkose that invoke them, as if they were their in-
feriors." But I will unfold to you the whole
division, which is worthy of regard, concerning
the powers that are invoked ; from which you
will be able clearly to define what is possible
Digitized by Google
204
and what is impossible, in the subjects of your
investigation. For the Gods, indeed, and the
natures that are more excellent than we, through
the wish of what is beautiful, and from an un-
envying and exuberant folness of good, benevo-
lently impart to those that are worthy, such
things as are fit for .them, commiserating the
labours of sacerdotal men, but being delighted
with those that ·they have begotten, nourished,
and·instructed. But the middle genera are the
inspective guardians of judgment. These in-
form us what ought to be done, and from what
it is ·fit to abstain. They also give assistance
to just works, bot impede such as are unjust;
and as many endeavour to take away unjustly
the property of others, or .basely to injure or
destroy some one, they cause these to suffer
the-same things as they have done to others.
But there is, ·likewise, another most irrational
genus of dremons•, which is without judgment,
and is allotted OJl]y One power, through an
arrangement by which each of these dremons
presides over one work alone. As therefore,
it is the province of a sword to cut, and to do
• According to Proclus, in Alcibiad. Prior. there are three .
orders of dllemons, the first of which are more iat~l.
the second are of a more rational aature, and the third, of
which Iamblichus is now speaking, are vario-., more irra-
lio1&al, and more material.
Digitized by Google
205
nothing else than this, thus also of the spirits
which are distributed in the universe, accord-
ing to the partible necessity of nature, one
kind divides, but another collects, things which
are generated. This, however, is known from
the pbrenomena. For the Charonean• spira-
cles, as they are called, emit from themselves
a certain spirit, .which is able to corrupt pro-
miscuously every thing that falls into them.
Thus; therefore, of certain invisible spirits, each
is allotted a different power, an~ · is alone
adapted to do that which it is ordained to:per-.
form. He, therefore, who turns from · their
natural course things which contribute to the
universe in an orderly manner, and·. illegiti-
mately performs a certain thing, in this case .
receives the injury arising from that which: he
uses badly. This, however, pertains to another
mode of discussion.
• Charonea is a country of Asia Minor, bordering on the
river Meander; and in it there are spiracles which exhale a
foul odour. According to Pliny, there are places of this
kind in Italy, in the country of Pnteoli, now Pu~olo. In
Amsanctus, also, a place in the middle of Italy, in the coun-
try of the Samnites, there were sulphureous waters, the
steams of which were so pestilential, that they killed all who
came near them. Hence Cicero, inJib. i. De Divin. " Quid
enim 'I Non videmus, quam sint varia terrarum genera1 Ex
quibus et mortifera quaidam pars est, ut et Amsancti in Hir-
, pinis, et in Asia Plutooia."
Digitized by Google
206
CHAP. II. .
BUT we sometimes see that take place which
is now proposed to be considered. For it
happens that spirits are commanded [to do this
or that] who do not use a reason of their own;
and have not the principle of judg~ent. Nor
does this occur irrationally. For our dianoia
naturalJ1 possessing the power of reasoning
about and judging of things as they are, and
coutpreheodiog in itself many powers of life, is
accustomed to command the most irrational
spirits, and such as derive their perfection from
one energy alone. Hence, it invokes these as
more excellent natures, because it endeavours
to attract to particulars from the whole world,
in which we are contained, things which con-
tribute to wholes•. And it commands them
as inferior natures, because frequently certain
parts of things in the world [such as our reason-
ing power] are more pure and perfect than
things which extend themselves to the whole
world. Thus, for instance, if one thing is in-
tellectual [as is the c~se -with our dianoia], but
another is wholly inanimate or physical, then
• And these irrational spirits, so far as they contribute to
wholes, are tnore excellent than we are, though through be-.
ing irrational they are inferior to us.
Digitized by Google
207
that which proceeds to a les1 extent has a
more principal power than that which is more
extended, though the former falls far short of
the latter in magnitude and multitude of domi-
nation. For these things, also, another reason
may be a8sigoed, and which is as follows : in
all theurgical operations the priest sustains a
twofold character ; one, indeed, as man, and
which preserves the order possessed ,by our
nature in the universe ; but the other, which is
corroborated by divine signs, and through these .
is conjoined to more excelleet natures, and is
elevated to their or.der by an elegant circum-
dnction, this is deservedly capable of being
surrounded with the external form of the Gods.
Conformably, therefore, to a di1ference of this
kind, the priest very properly invokes,,as more
excellent natures, the powers derived from the
universe, so far as he who invokes is a maa ;
and again, he commands these powers, because
through arcane symbols, he, in a certain respect,
is invested with the sacred f()rm of the Gods.
CHAP. Ill,
D1ssOLVING, however, the doubts in a way still
more true, we think it requisite, in invoking
superior natures, to take away the evocations
Digitized by Google
208
which appear to be directed to them as to men,·
and also the mandates .in the ·performance of
works, which are given with great earnestness.
For if the communion of concordant friend-
ship, and a. certain indissoluble connexion of
union, are the bonds of sacerdotal operations,·
in order that these operations may be truly·
divine, and may transcend every common action
known to men, no human work wiJI be adapted
to them ; nor wiU the invocations of the prie.st
resemble the manner ·in which we draw to
ou~elves things that are distant; nor are bis
mandates directed as to things separated from
him, in the way in which we tra1isfer one thing
from others. . But the energy of divine fire
shines forth voluntarily, and in common, and
being self-invoked and self-energetic, energizes
through all things· with invariable sameness,
both ·through the ·natures which .impart, and
those.that are able to receive, its ·light.· Thia·
mode of solution, therefore, is· far superior;
which does not suppose that divine works are
effected through contrariety, or discrepance, in
th~ way in which generated natures are usually
produced; but asserts that every such work is
rightly accomplished through sameness, tmion,
and consent.· Hence, if we separate from each·
other that which invokes and that which is in-
voked, that which commands and that which is
Digitized by Google
209
¢01umabded1:that'which.li more·and that which
is·Jess :excelJent, we·sbaU,-'in a certain respect,
tr.allder the contrariety of generatfons to ·the
uobe~tten-
goods ofthe Gods. Butifwedespise
all·S-U:eh things, as it is justwe should, as of an
earth..born nature, and ascribe that which is
&Xlblmoo.and simple, as being more.honourable,
to tae powers who transcend the varieiy which
is in the realms of generation, the first hypo~be­
sis of these questions will be immediately sub-
verted, so that no reasonable doubt concerning
them wiJI be left.
CHAP. IV.
.W.QAT then shall we say concerning the next
i~\lity to this, viz. "why the powers w/,,o are
i,wo4ed tit,;,,,}& it requisite .t'Ju!,t ke wko wors4ip1
t!em, 14!nt/,d hefu,st, °'1-t tlwy when called vpon to·
'4C,t ~l!I do not ref11JJe so to act ?" To thig I
reply, th~t I am dubio.
us with respect to what
y<>u call .~cting justly, '11id am of opinion that·
what appears to tie to h~ an accurate definition·
of justice does not also·appear to he so to the
Gods. For we, looking to that which is mo$t
brief, direct .our· attention to things present,
and .to this momentary life, and the manner in·
which it subsis.ts. But the powers that are
p
Digitized by Google
210
superior tO us know the whole life or the sout,
.and all its former lives; and, in consequence
of this, if they inflict a certain punishment
from the prayer of those that invoke them, they
do not inflict it without justice, but looking to
the offences committed by souls in former
lives•; which men not perceiving think that
they unjustly fall into the calamities which
they suffer.
CHAP. V.
THE multitude, also, are accustomed to doubt
in common the very same thing concerning
providence, viz. why certain persons are aftlicted
undeservedly, as they have not done any thing
unjustly prior to their being thus afBicted.
For neither here is it possible to understand
[perfectly] what the soul is, and its whole life,
how many offences it has committed in former
lives, and whether it now suffers from its former
guilt. Io this life, also, many unjust actions
are c;oncealed from human knowledge, but are
known to the Gods, since neither is the same
• See the justice of providence in this respect most admir-
ably defended by Plotinus, in the first of his treatises on
Providence, which treatise forms one of the five books of
Plotinns translated by me, in 8vo. 1'794.
Digitized by Google
211
scope of justice proposed to them as to men.
For men, indeed; define justice to be the sours
performance of its'-0wn proper business•, and
the distribution of desert, conformably to the
established Jaws, and the prevailing polity.
But the Gods, looking to the who1e orderly
arrangement of the world, and to the sub-
serviency of souls to the Gods, form a judg-
ment of what is just. Hence the judgment of
just actions with the Gods is different from
what it is with us. Nor is it wonderful, if we
are unable, in most things, to arrive at the su-:
preme and most perfect judgment of more ex-
cellent natures. What also hinders, but that
to each thing by itself, and in conjunction with
the whole alliance of sou1s, justice may in a
very transcendent manner be decreed by the
Gods? For ifa communion of the same nature
in souls, both when they are in and when they
are out of bodies, produces a certain identical
connexion and common order with the life of
the world, it is likewise necessary that a fulfil-
ment of justice should be required by wholes,
and especia1ly when the magnitude of the un-
just deeds antecedently committed by one
soul transcends the infliction of one punish-
• In the original, r,,v '~'"" r"' lf!v'X.'1' aimnrpay1av, which
Gale very madequately translates }lroprivna aninrce <dficiam.
P2
Digitized by Google
212
ment due to the offences. But if any one should
add other definitions, through which he can
show that what is just subsists with the Gods
in a way different from that in which it is
.known by us, from these also our design will
be facilitated. For me, however, the before-
inentioned canons are alone sufficient for the
.purpose of manifesting the universal genus,
·and which comprehends every thing pertaining
to the medicinal punishment:S inflicted by di-
vine justice.
CHAP. VI.
IN order, therefore, that from an abundance of
arguments we may contend against the objec-
tion which is now adduced,' we will grant, if
you please, the contrary to what we have
. asserted, viz.. that certain unjust things are
·performed in this business of invocations. _
That
the Gods, however, are not to be accused as
the causes of these is immediately manifest.
For those that are good are the causes of.good;
and the Go~s possess good essentially. They
do nothing, therefore, that is unjust. Hence
other causes of guilty deeds must be investi-
gated. And if we are not able to discover
these causes, it is not proper to throw away
Digitized by Google
213
the true cooception respecting the Gods, nor
on account of the doubts whether these unjust
deeds are performed, and how they are effected,
to depart from notions concerning the Gods .
which are truly clear. For it is much better
to acknowledge the insufficiency of our power
to explain how unjust actions are perpetrated,
than to admit any thing impossible and false
respecting the Gods ; since all the Greeks and
Barbarians truly opine the contrary to be the
case with divine natures. After this manner,
therefore, the truth respecting these particulars
subsists.
CHAP. VU.
MoREOVER, it is necessary to add the causes
whence evils• sometimes arise, and to show
ho,,,. many and of what kind they are. For the
i>rm of them is not simple; but, being various,
is the leader of the generation of various evils.
For if what we a little before said, concerning
images and evil dmmons, who assume the ap-
pearance of Gods and good dremons, is true, an
abundant evil-producing tribe, about which a
• See my translation of Proclus on the Subsistence of
Evil, at the end of my translation of his six bOoks on the
Theology of Plato.
Digitized by Google
214
contrariety of this kind usually happens, wm
from hence appear to flow. For an evil dtl!11Wfl.
requires that his worshipper should be just, be-
cause he assumes the appearance of one belong-
ing to the divine genus; "bttt he is subservient to
what is unjwt, ·because he is depraved. The
same thing, likewise, that is said of good and
evil may be asserted of the true and the false.
As, therefore, in divinations we attribute true
predictions to the Gods alone, but when we
detect any falsehood in predictions we refer
this to another genus of cause, viz. tba.t of
dremons; thus, also, in things just and unjust,
the beautiful and the just are to be alone
ascribed to Gods and good dremons; but such
dremons as are naturally depraved, perpetrate
what is unjust and base. And that, indeed,
which consents and accords with itself, and
always subsists with invariable sameness, per-
tains to more excellent natures ; but that which
is hostile to itself, "which is discordant, and
never the same, is the peculiarity in the most
eminent degree ofdremoniacal dissension, about
whicli.it is not at all wonderful that ·things of
an opposing nature should subsist ; but perhaps·
the very contrary, that this should not be· the
case, would be more wonderful.
Digitized by Google
~16
CHAP~ VIII.
WE may, however, beginning from: another
hypothesis, demonstrate the same thing. We
must admit that the corporeal parts of the
universe are neither sluggish nor destitute of
power, but as much as they excel our concerns
in perfection, beauty, and magnitude, by so
much also is the power which is present with
them greater. Each, likewise, by itself is capa-
ble of effecting different things, and produces
certain different energies. They are alsG capa.-
ble of effecting things much more numerous on
each other. And.besides this, a certain multi-
.form production extends to parts from wholes;
partly from sympathy, through similitude of
powers, and partly from the aptitude of the
agent to the patient. . If, therefore, cert~iri evils
and destructions happen to parts, they al'e
salutary and good as with reference to wholes
and the harmony of the.universe, but to parts
they introduce a necessary corruption, either
.from not being abJe to bear the energies of
wholes, or from a certain other commixture and
temperament of their own imbecility, or, in the
third place, from the privation of symmetry in
the parts to each other.
Digitized by Google
116
CH.AP..IX.
J\r'n.t: the. body.·o1·the tJDiHr~· ~o•..rma,
ihihgs-,Jilre:generated .by the aatui'e of it.. For
1Jle concbrd:of:. similare, .Od the conttariety .of
·dissimilara, effect:riDt a few things. Farther
.till,::the assemhkige of many things into the
(one.tn\nial of the univerae, and •e powers '.in
:the.world,.whatever.the number aod·quality.of
-them .inay .be, · eWect; in . short, .one thing :ill
.whole!! arid another.in.parts, on account of the
..-divided imbecility of parts. Thus,.fo.r.instance,
.the frieBidship, love, and contention whichsolJi.
-siat in ;enngy in the universe; become pasaioos
in :the:partial 11at.ures by which:tlaey are pan-
.ticipated. Those things, ljkewise, that . ue
pre~tablishe~ - in ·fonl18 aQd·:pqre reasons.~
:the ·nature of wboles, :~rticipate •fa cutai.D
.material indige41cer and pri-fation of tltOl"flM,•ia
things which subsist ac~ordiog ~ a.paJ1;. And
·thinrs..w.hich· are coojoiuoo t.o each:other ,.
·whole1n1re $eparate.din parts.; Hence pa1'ible
·mtt#~s;··"hkb participate ·of .wholes in ! eon-
jnQctian ·lfith matter, degenerate from .them. in
tJ} things, ;loo alSo~from, what is bea11tifol. :and
perfuot. ·Butsome parts are:corrupted,. ~ ordei-
that wholes may be preaened in_ a con<lition
•
Digitized by Google
217
cOOformable to nature. Sometimes, ·likewise.,
partsarecompreseed and weighed don, though
at ;the sa.oie time.wholes remain impassive to a
mole1tation of this kind•
.CHAP. X.
WE shall collect, therefore, what.happens from
these conclusions. For if certain in•oeators
employ the physical .or corporeal powers... of
the ,universe, .an involuntary gift of energy
[hm these powers], and which is without 'rice,
takes place. · He, likewise, who uses thi$ gift
Esometimes] pe"erts it to ·things of·a contrary
nature, and to base- purposes. And the ·gi~
itlde~d, is .moved contrarily together with .tile
passions, and sympathetically through similb:
tride; but he who uses the thing which is im-
parted, deliberately draws it, contrary tojustice,
to what is evil and base. And the gift, indeed,
causes things which ·are most remote to co-
operate through the one harmony. of the W()l'Jd.
But if some one understanding this to be tM
ease ·shoukl iniquitously endeavour to tlraw
certain portions Of the unh1erse to other parts,
· • See cap. 40, 41, 42, of Eunead iv. lib. iY. of Plotinus,
from which the doctrine of this chapter ii deriYed. .
Digitized by Google
218
these parts are not the cause of the evil ·tlaat
ensues; but the audacity of men, .and 'the
transgression of the order in the world, pervert
things that are beautiful and legal. Hence
neither do the Gods effect what appears to be
base, but this is accomplished by the natures
and bodies that proc~ed from them ; nor do
these very natures and bodies impart improbity
from themselves, as.it is thought they do ; but
they send their proper eftluxions to places about
the earth, for the salvation of wholes, and those
who receive them transmute _
them by their
commixture and perversion, and transfer what
is given to a purpose different from· that for
which it was imparted. Froio all these par-
ticulars, therefore, it is demonstrated that a
divine nature is not the cause of evils and un-
just.deecls,
I
CHAP. XI.
;MOREOVER, you inquire, and at the same time
douht, " 1ww it comes to pass tkat tlie Godl th>
JWt kear kim who invokes them, if lie is impure
from venereal connexions ; but, at tile same time,
they do not refuse ta lead ang one to illegal
venery." You have, indeed, a clear solution
of these things from what has been befo1·e said;
Digitized by Google
219
if they are dorie contrary to [human] laws, but
are effected according to another order and
cause more excellent than laws. Or if it hap-
pens that things of this kind are conformable
to the mundane harmony .and friendship, yet
produce a conflict in parts through a certaiD'
sympathy. Or if the communication of good,
which is beautifully imparted, is perverted by
those that receive it to the contrary.
CHAP. XII.
IT is necessary, however, to discuss these
things particularly, and to show how they sub-
sist, and what reason they po$sess. It is requi-
sit.e, therefore, to understand that the universe
is one animal; and that the parts in it·are, in-
deed, separated by places, but through the
possession ofone nature hasten to each other•.
The whole collective power, however, and the
cause of mixture, spontaneously draws the
• Agreeably to this, Plotinus, also, in Eunead iv. lib. iv.
cap. 32, says, rav T"o11ro T"o ev, 1eai 1.1r (,.,ov ev· (1.1011 ,., OYror,
"a' eir tv T"EXOllVT"O(", 011~tv 0117"61 'trOPP" T"W011 61f µ,, 1yy11r
"vai '"?! 7"011 1vor (t.1011 1tpor T"O t111µ:tra8nv 4111t1ti. i. e. " This
universe is one, and is as one animal. Bot being an animal
and completely effecting one thing, nothing in it is so distant
in place as not to be near to the nature of the one animal,
on account of its sympathy with the whole ofitself."
Digitized by Google
!20
parts k>.a millgling with each qther. But it is
aim pessible for this spontaneous attraction to
he excited and extended by art more than is
&t. The·cause itself, therefore, of this mixture
extending nm itself to t.he whole world, is
good, and the source of plenitude; has the
powet ·.ofhannooically procuring communion,
0,9nsent, and .symmetry ; and inserts, by union,
the indissol..ble principle of 1-0ve, which ptin-
ciple retains and preserves both things that
are in existence, and such as are becoming
to be. But in the parts, through.their sepa-
ration from e_
ach other and from wholes, and
because, frOm their own proper nature, they
are imperfect, indigent, and imbecile, their
mutual .connexion is accompanied ,with pas-
sion-; by which, in most of them, desire and
a connasceni appetite are inherent. Art~ there-
'
"' This art is no other than magic, or w:bieh tlle Collowiq
account, from a very rare Greek manuscript of Psellua, 0..
DtnnOfU according to the Dog""" of the Greeb, will, I
doul>t not, be acceptable to the 1'.eader, as- it illustrates what
is here said by Iamblichos, and shows that magic is not an
empty name, but possesses a real power, theogh at present
~is art see.ms to be totally lost. Ficinus.pobU.hea solll&
extracts from this manuscript in Latin; but Ga,le does llO'
appear to ha'fe .had it in his p~ession. H yG'JTHCI Oi E'>& TIX>'9.
T,, ffEp& TOV' &vX011' ""' x&.-co~ OCIY60)1CIC fal'TllO'UXTICO'lr011'1a
TO" erorra" TCI . TOllT•W uo.,Xa. 111«& FQllC p.c,, """'EP l~ a0011
«f'ayovO"a, T~c . OE vi/xl8i,, 1Car~.11aa, ""' rovTovc ·KRIC"1r&~
Kovc. Kai ,aco.,Xa aTTa ,Vf&<F'I'(& t;a,,Ta,l44JTa ro" fk.,pou rw.-
Digitized by Google
fore, perce1v10g this innate desire thus im-
planted by nature, and distributed abQut it
TOllTt.Jv. icai TOit; p.Ev pwµaTa T111a E1Cu8i11 1C11p.ai110J1Ta wa-
'Ji111tr1• TOI!; OE Ottrp.1.o111 avttTEI!; ""' rpv+at;, ICtll xa,oirai; nay-
~cu• .way.ara1 aa 1'Cll: T'OlllVTClt 01/JfCJ/UCC, &'Qi tulf'CJtTI ICCll
111<M1µ.atr1.Y. ,, o.t µay11a 'tf'o'A.vov,,aµ.o,, n X/J11µ.a To" Eu,,.,,,
EOo~E. µ~pioa yo11J1 uvai TaVT'IJI 'Jiatr1J1 EtTX,aT'lJI T'll: upaT'""'
tti-;11µ.111;. a11ix.11wo1111a yap r1o111 1111'0 .,.,,,, 11E'X'1J1'1J1 'll'aJ1T1.o1v
""' rt Ol/tTaJI Kiili flltTIJI, KtJi 01111aµ.1" ICCU fl'OiOf"JTa. >..ay"
OE C'O'X""',,. '"" .,..,,, To11r1t111 µ11"&.1111 ,_,,., trailr~a1J1t.1JI' (/>vr~11,
icai r"'" EYTE118E11 ""P'lf'"'ll• >..181.o111, {3orav"'"• icai a'11'X1.o1c Et'll'Et"•
'11"G,..roc trpayp.aTfK, wo-;atr111 TE ""' OvJ1ap.111. EJ1TE118E11 apa
ra tavr111; tpya,tra1. aya).,uaTa TE v'(u<;'JtTiv vynac 7rtp1'11'oitf
r"ca, ica1 · tl'Xfll'-ara 11'01E1ra1 ra.Jl'T'oOa'lra· ""' 1101101ro1a OIJ'I·
f!llP'Y'1!'-tlra Erlpa. IClll aETOI µ.Ev, Ktli OpGICOffrEi;, ~"'"p.01
11111ro1f 11'pot; 11yuav wo81tr1i;· a1>..ovpoi OE ""' ic11n(, ica4
icopaic« aypw1111riica tr11µ.{30>..a. ic11poc OE ica1 ,..,,>..oi; El( ra(
Tltlll µ.op'"" tTllf'1r'XatTE1( 7rapa>..aµ./3a11offra1. f/lanaCu oe 11'0X-
MIClt;, ""' 11'ilp0t; OllptlYIOIJ EllQOt/EI(, icai oiaµt10l61tll "" r.ou-
. ""'" aya).,uaTa'. 11'11p1 OE avroµ.aT'I >..aµ.11'aOEi; a11a11'rona1.
i. e. " Goeteia, or witchcraft, is a certain art respecting
material and terrestrial diemoos, whose images it causes to
become visible to the spectators of this art. And some of
the8e da?mons it leads up, as it were from Hades, but others
it draws down from on high; and these, too, such as are of
an evil species. Thu art, theref<>re, causes certain phan-
taltic intagu to ap~ar before the apectators. And before
the eyea of some, indeed, it pours exuberant streams; but to
others it promises freedom from bonds, delicacies, and fa-
vours. They draw down, too, powers of this kind by songs
and incantations. But magic, according to the Greeks, is a
thing of a very powerful nature. For they 1ay that tlai8
for1111 the last part of tlt.e 1acerdotal scieace. Magic, indeed,
investigates the nature, power, and quality of every thing
sublunary; viz. of the elements, and their parts, of animals,
all various plants and their fruits, of stones, and herbs: and
Digitized by Google
(art itself also being multiformly distributed
about nature), variously attracts and derives it
as through a channel. · Hence it transft>rs that
which in itself is· orderly and arranged into the
privation of order, and filJs that which is beau-
tiful and commensurate with deformity. But
the venerable end in each particular thing,
which is connascent with union, it transfers to
another indecorous plenitude, which is an
in short, it explores the essence and power of every thing.
From hence, therefore, it produces its effects. And it forms
statues which procure health, makes all various figures, and
things which become the instruments of disease. It asserts,
too, that eagles and dragons contribute to health ; bot that
cats, dogs, and crows are symbols of vigilance, to which,
therefore, they contribute. Bot for the fashioning of certain
parts wax and clay are used. Often, too, celestial fire is
made to appear through magic; and then statues laugh, and
lamps are spontaneously enkindled."
This curious passage throws light on the following extract
from the first book ofthe Metaphorsis ofApuleius: " Magico
susurranime, amnes agiles reverti, mare pigrum colligari,
ventos inanimes expirare, solem inhiberi, lunam despumari,
stellas e\ielli, diem tolli, noctem teneri." i. e. " By magical
incantation rapid rivers may be made to run back to their
fountains, the sea be congealed, winds become destitute of
spirit, the sun be held back in his course, the moon be forced
to t!catter her foam, the stars be torn from their orbits, the
day be taken away, and the night be detained." For it may
be inferred from Psellus, that witches formerly were able to
eause the appearance of all this to take place. It must also
be observed, that this MS. of PseJlus On D<J!'IRO'lll forms no
part of his treatise On the Energy of Dtm&Om, published by
Gaulminus; for it never was pu~lished.
Digitized by Google
223
assemblage of diJferent things according to a
common passion. It likewise imparts a matter
from itself, which is unadapted to the whole
generation of what is beautiful, either because
it does not entirely receive it, or because it
transfers it to other things. It also mingles
. many different physical powers, which it ma-
nages as it pleases for the purposes ofgenera-
tion. Hence we have universally shown, that
the apparatus of a venereal connexion of this
kind proceeds from a certain human art, and
not from a certain dmmooiacal or divine ne-
cessity.
CHAP. XIII.
CONSIDER, therefore, also another genus of
causes; how a stone or a herb frequently
possess from themselves a nature corruptive, or
again collective of generated natures. For this
is not only the case with these, but this physical
power is also in greater natures and greater
things, which those who are not able to infer by
a reasoning process, will perhaps transfer the
works and energies of nature to more excellent
beings [i. e. to Gods, angels,· and dmmons].
Now, therefore, it is acknowledged that the
tribe of evil dremons bas a very extended
Digitized by Google
PQwer in generation~ in human alfairs, and io
wch things .as subsist about the earth. Hence,
why is it wonderful that a tribe of this kind
abGuld effect such works as these? For every
man i1 not able to distinguish a good from aa
evil d~on,. or by what p~uliarities the one it
s.~ted from the other; Hence those, who
are rwt able to perceiv~ the di.lference between
the two, absurdly reason concerning the cause
of them, and refer this cause to genera superior
to nature and the d~moniacal order. If, also,
etttain powers of a partial soul are assumed in
order to effect these things, whether sue~ a soul
is detained in body, or has left the testaceous
and terrestrial body, but wanders. about the
places of generation in a turbid and humid
spirit ; this, indeed, will be a true opinion, but
separates the causeofthese things at thegreatesi
distance from more e.xceUent oahues. By no
means, therefore, is that which is divine, or any
good dremoo, subservient to the illegal desires
of men in venereal concerns. For of these
things there are many other causes.
Digitized by Google
SECTION V.
CHAP. I.
THE doubt· mentioned by you in the next place, .
is, as I may say, an inquiry which is made in
common both by the learned and the unlearned,
J. mean concerning sacrifices, " what utility or
power they possess in the universe, and with the
Gods, and on what account tltey are performed,
approJwiately indeed to the .powers who are
ko,ioured by them, but usefully to those by whom
the gij~s are offered." In the same place, also,
another objection occurs, viz. " that the inter-
preters ofprophecies and oracles ought to abstain
fi·om animals, lest the Gods should be polluted
by the vapours arising from them. For this i$
cont_rary ·to the a.ssertion, that the Gods are
especially allured by the vapours ofanimals."
CHAP. II.
THE hostile opposition, therefore, in the things
that are now proposed, may be easily dissolved
by demonstrating the dignity of wholes with
Q
Digitized by Google
.,
respect to parts, and by recalling to your
recollection the exempt traoscendency of the
Gods above men. But what I mean is this,
that the soul, which ranks as a whole, presides
over all the mundane body•, and that the
• Hence Iamblichus (apud Stob. Eclog. Phys. p. 114),
says, Ovx .,, allTfl E~' 'lratJ"'>' 1/J"X"'>' Koc>'"'>''" 'lrpoc Ta ""'p.ara.
aU'.,, P,EY o>..,, t.JtrrEp nx..r,..~ OOKU, 'rp0t1&0Y ea'"' TO ""'fl4
EXEC EY Eal!TrJ• aU' ou avr.,, 'rpoatca1 Tf ""'P."T', ovoE 'rEP•EX,E-
rac w' avrov. ai OE µEpi~ai 'lrpOaEpxo~rai TOit; ""'"'""'• Ka~
r"'>' ,,..µar""" 'Y''Y>'oYrai. i. e. " There is not the same com-
munion of all sools with bodies; but the soul which ranks •
a whole (as it also appeared to Plotinus), approaching to
itself, contains body in itself, but does not itself approach to
body, nor is comptehended by it. Partible souls, however,
aocede to bodies, and give themselves up to them."
Conformably to this Porphyry also, in bis A;opµaa frpot;
ra Yo.,,ra, No. 30, says," No whole and perfect essence is
converted to its own progeny; but 311 perfect natures are led
back: to the cause.a by which they were generated, even as
far as '1;the mundane body. For this body, being perfect,
is elevated to the mundane soul which is intellectual, and
through this is circularly moved. But the·soul of this body
is elevated to intellect, and intellect to that which is first.
A.11 things, therefore, extend themselves to this, begioning
from that which is last, according to the peculiar ability of
each. But the reduction to that which is first is either
proximate or remote. Hence these are not only said to
aspire after divinity, but also to enjoy him as far as they are
able. But in partial natures, and which are able to verge to
many things, a conversion to their progeny belongs. Hence
in these guilt, in these disgraceful perfidy, is found. Matter,
therefore, defiles these, because they decline to it, at the
same time that they possess the power of' converting them•
selves to a diTine nature."
Digitized by Google
celestial Gods ascend, as into a vehicle, in.to a
cele8tial body, neither receiriog any '. injury
from thence, nor any impediment in their in-
tellections. But to ~ partjal .soul, the :com-
munion with body is noxious in both these
respects. If, therefore, some one perceiving
this, should nevertheless introduce such a doubt
as the following, that if the body is a bond to
our soul, it will also be a bond to the soul of
the universe, ~nd that if a partial soul is con-
verted to the body on account of generation, in
a similar manner the power of the Gods is con-
verted to generation ; in answer to this every
one may reply, that he who thus·doubts does
not know how much superior beings transcend
men, and wholes parts. Since, therefore, the
objections pertain to t~ings different from each
·other, they do not produce any ambiguity.
CHAP. Ill..
HERE, therefore, the same reasoning is like-
wise sufficient. For with us the enjoyment of
bodies wh_
ich once were united to soul, im-
presses in us heaviness and defilement, ingene-
rates in us voluptuousness, and produces many
other diseases in the soul. But with the Gods,
and with mundane aod total causes, this ie.by
Q 2
Digitized by Google
228
no means the case. For the.exhalation which
ascends after a divine manDer from animals
that ·are sacrificed, as it is comprehended by,
a.od 1 d~s not comprehend, the Gods, and as it
:is also connected with the universe, but does
·not·conjoin wholes and the Gods to itself, is in
consequence of this coadapted to superior her
ings anCI to total ·causes, but does not restrain
them and coadapt them to itself.
CHAP. IV.
NoR is that which .so greatly disturbs you, and
for which you so strenuously contend, attended
:with any difficulty, I mean abstinence from
anilpals•, if it is rightly understo~d. For those
who worship the Gods do no~ abstain from ani-
mals, lest the Gods should be defiled by the
vapours arising from them. For what exhala-
tion from bodies can approach those who, be-
fore any thing material can come into contact
.with their power, intangibly amputate matter?
Nor .is it the power of the Gods only that
abolishes all bodies, and causes them to vanish,
• lamblicbus here alludes to the excellent treatise ofPor-
phyry, 'tl'EP' Tfl( T61if tµl/lv.x.wv a'll'OX,fl(, o,. Ab1ti11ence from
Animal Food, Crom which work the English reader will find
several admirable extracts in one of the Introductory Disser-
tations prefixed to my translation of Proclas on Euclid.
Digitized by Google
229
with-Out any approximation to .them ; but a
celestial body, also, is uniningJed with all the
material elements• ; nor does it receive in.to
itself. any thing extraneous, nor impart:·any:
portion of itself to things of a foreign nature.
How, therefore, can any terrestrial vapour,
which is not elevated five stadia from the:earth:
before it again flows down 'to the earth, either
nourish a circulating and immaterial body, ·or,
in short, produce in it a certain defilement, or
any other passion? For it ·is acknowledgedi
that an etherial body is void of all contrariety,t
is liberated from all mutation, is entirely pure
from the possibility of being transmuted into
any thing else, and is perfectly free from a ten-
dency to, and from the mid.dle,11because it is
either without any tendency, o~; is convolved
in a circle. Hence, it is not possible that
bodies, which consist of different powers .and
motions, which are al.J-variously changed, and
are moved either upwards or downwards,
should have any communfon of nature or power
with celestial bodies, or that any exhalation of
the former should be mingled with the latter.
As the former, therefore, are entirely separated
• A celestial body, as is beautifully shown by Proclus in
Tim. lib. iii. contains the summits of all the elements, but is
characterized by vivific unburning fire; so that, in short, it
is vitalized extension.
Digitized by Google
230
from the latter, they will not effect any thing in
them. For celestial bodies being unbegotten,
are not capable of receiving any mutation from
generated natures. How, therefore, can the
Gods be defiled by such like vapours, who
suddenly, as I may say, at one stroke, ampu-
tate the vapours ascending from all matter and
material bodies ?
This, therefore, it is not fit to suspect of the
Gods [viz. that they can be defiled by vapours];
but it ·is much more requisite to think that
things of this kind are foreign to us and to 'our
nature. For things which are divided, and
also material and kindred natures, are able to
have a certain communion with each other in
acting and suffering; but things which are
essentiaJly different, and such •as are entirely
transcendent, and·which employ other natures
and powers, these cannot act on or receiTe any
thing from each other. The defilement, the~
fore, produced by material natures, falls on
things which are detained by a material body;
and from these it is necessary those should be
purified who are capable of being defiled by
matter. But how can those beings be defiled
by material essences who neither have a divisi-
ble nature nor possess the power of receiving
in themselves the passions of matter? How,
likewise, can divinity, who has nothing in com-
Digitized by Google
231
mon with us, in consequence of antecedent1y
existing superior to huQian.imbecility, be pol-
luted by my passions, or by those of any other
man?
Neither of these, therefore, at all pertains to
the Gods· ; neither our being filled with. mate-
rial bodies ; (fur there is nothing, in short, of
this kind with them, nor·are they defiled by our
stains, since they are entirely pure and incor-
. ruptible), .nor if there are certain material
V;lpours of bodies which are emitted about the
earth ; for these vapours are most remote from
the essence and pow~r of the Gods. Het1ce
the whole hypothesis ofcontrariety is subverted
if no part of it pertains·to the_Gods. For how,
in short, can that which is not·possess in itself
a certain contest [with any thing]? You in
vain, therefore, suspect things of this kind ·to
be absurd, and you adduce doubts unworthy of
the Gods, since they ,can.not be reasonably
appli~ even to good men. For no man who
possesses intellect, and is free from passion,.
would ever permit himselfto be allured by the
exhalation o( vapours, and much less would
any.one of the.beings more excellent than man
suffer himself to be thus allured. These things,
however, will :t>e discussed shortly after. But
now, since this contrariety is, through many
solutions, subverted, we shall here finish what
we have to say about the first doubt.
Digitized by Google
232
CHAP. V.
YouR nex,t inquiry is of greater consequence,
and is concerning things of a: greater nature.
How, therefore, shall I be able, briefly and
sufficiently, to give you an answer to a question
which is extremely difficult, and requires a
long .explanation? Nevertheless I will answer
it, and without failing in alacrity. I will also.
endeavour to follow what you have concisely
indicated and tacitly signified. .But I will un-
fold to you my dogma concerning sacrifices
[which is as follows]. It is by no means requi•
site that sacrifices .should be offered for the
sake ·of honour alone, in the same manner as
.we honour benefactors ; nor for the sake of
returning thanks for the goods imparted to us
by the Gods; ·nor yet for .the sake of first
fruits, or as a remuneration by certain gifts of
more venerable goods best.owed on us by the
Gods. For these things are also common to
men, and are assumed from. the common polity
of mankind, hut by no means preserve the
transcendency of the Gods and the order of
them as exempt causes.
Digitized by Google
23~
CHAP. VI. '.
. ;.
BUT the greatest thing in sacrifices, viz. their
efficacious power, and why especiaUy they are
so very beneficial Jhat without. them we ·are
neither ·liberated from pestilence, 'nor famine,
nor sterili,ty of fruits, nor obtain .seasonable
showers of rain, nor thi~gs Qf much 'greater
consequence.·than these, I mean such as·con..:
tribute to the purification of ·the soul,- or .an
emancipation from·generation; these are not at
all indicated by·such modes ofsacrifices as you
adduce. Hence no one can justly approve of
them, because they assign a cause of the works
performed in sacrifices unadapted to their dig-
nity. And if some one should approve of them
it will be only fo.a secondary way, and as sus-
pended from primary, more ancient, and vener-
able causes.
CHAP. VII.
THE discussion therefore requires that we
should.show what it is through which sacri-
fices are effective of things, and are suspended
from the Gods, the precedaneous causes of
Digitized by Google
effects. If then we say that the ~ommunion
of similar powers, or th~ dissension of contra-
ries, or a certain aptitude of the agent to the
patien.t in the univerEte, as in oue animal, ev.ery
w·here possessing one .and.the same life, c~
excites adapted similars, pervadipg with in-
l'&rlable A1Dene.as .acCC!rding to one sympathy,
and,existing.most near in things most remote:
if we should..say this~ we should thus assert
something of .what is true, and which neces..,
sarily accompanies sacrifi.ces, yet we should
not demonstrate the .true mode of their sub-
sistence. For the essence of the Gods is ·not
placed.in nature and in physical necessities, so
as to be coexcited.by physical passions, or by
the powers which extend thre>ugh all nature;
but independently ofthese, itis defined by itself,
having nothing in common with them, ne'Mber:
according to essence, nor according to power,
nor any thiµg else.
CHAP. VIII.
THE same absurdities· likewise happen from
assigning~ as the causes of w;
hat is ·eB'ected by
sacrifices, either certain .nnmberi that are=
with
us, such, for ~ instance, as assuming the number
Digitized by Google
235
sixty in the crocodile•, as adapted to the sun;
or physical reasons, as the power.s and .ener-
gies of animals,.ror .instance; of the 'dog t, the
• The number sixty is no less manifest in the crocodile
than in the sun. For according to.Aristotle (in Bisl Anim.
lib. v.) the crocodile brings forth sixty eggs of a white colour
and sits on them .for sixty days.
t " Isis," says Gale, " is the moon. And a dog attended
Isis when she was diligently seeking her husband Osiris~
But the moon perpetually seeks the sun, and therefore that
sagacious animal, the dog, accords with Isis. In the solem-
nities, also, of Isis, dogs preceded the procession." After
this manner others besides Gale, who have not penetrated
the ·depths of the philosophy and theology of Plato, would
doubtless explain what is fabulously said of Isis. In reality,
however, Isis is uot the moon, but one of the divinities that
revolve in the lunar sphere as an attendant on the moon, and
who, in modern language, is one of the satellites of that
planel For, as.I have shown from Proclus, in the Intro-
duction to my translation of the Timreus of Plato, every
planetary sphere is en o~oT'l~. or a part of the uaiirene
hamag a total lttbmtettce, i. e. raakiag as a V?kole, and is
surrounded with a number of satellites analogous to the
choir of the fixed stars. Of these satellites, likewise, the
leaders of which are the planets, the first in order are Gods ;
after these, dremons revolve in lucid orbicular bodies ; and
these are followed by partial souls, such as ours. See.
·Proclus in Tim. p. 276 and p. 279. This theory, as I have.
elsewhere observed, is the grand key to the theology and
mythology of the ancients, as it shows at one view why the
same God is so often celebrated with the names of other
Gods ; which induced Macrobius to think that all the Gods
were nothing more than different powers of the sun. The
English reader will find an abundan.t confirmation ofwbat is
here said in the fourth book of my translation of the above
mentioned admirable work of Proclus.
Digitized by Google
236
cynocephalus•, and the weasel t, these being
· common to the m9on ; or matecial forms, such
as are seen in sacred anioials't ; according to
• " The Egyptians," 1&ys Horapollo, lib. i. " wishing to
signify the moon, paint a cynocephalus, because this animal
is variously aft'ected by the course of the moon./'
t In the original µ.vyaX11. "This word," says Gale," is
written variously, 1'iz. as µ.vya?.11, µ.vya>.t;, and µvyaXi;. It
is also variously translated, for it is eithei: rattu, or """
tira11eu.'' Plutarch, in the fourth book of bis Symposiacs,
Quest. 6, says, " that the Egyptians were of opinion that
darkness was prior to light, and that the latter was produced
from mice in the fifth generation, 11-t the time of the new
Jiloon. And farther still, they assert that the liver of the
weasel diminishes in the wane of the moon.''
t With the Egyptians many animals were sacred; for the
worship of which the following admirable apology is made
by Plutarch in his treatise of Isis and Osiris:
·u It now remains that we should speak of the utility of
these animals to man, and of their symbolical meaning;
some of them partaking of one of 1hese only, but many of
them of both. It is evident, therefore, that the Egyptians
worshiped the ox, the sheep, and the ichneumon, on account
of their use and benefit, as the Lemnians did larks, for dis-
covering the eggs of caterpillars and breaking them ; and the
Thessalians storks, because, as their land produced abun-
dance of serpents, the storks destroyed all of them as soon as
they appeared. Hence, also~ they enacted a law, that who-·
~ver killed a stork should be banished. But the Egyptians ·
honoured the asp, the weasel, and the beetle, in consequence
of observing in them certain dark resemblances of the power
of the Gods, Hke that of the son in drops of water. For at
present, many believe· and assert that the weasel engenders
by the ear, and brings forth by the mouth, being thus an
image of the generation of reason [or the productive princi-
ple of things]. But the genus of beetles has no female :
Digitized by Google
237
the colours, and all the forms of the body ; ·
and all the males emit their sperm into a sphericle piece of
earth, which· they roll about, thrusting it backwards with
tlieir hind feet, while they themselves move forward; just as
the son appears to revowe in a :direction contrary to that
of the heavens, in consequence of moving from west to east.
·They also assimilated the asp to a star, as being exempt
·from old age, and performing iu motions, unassisted by
organs, with agility and ease. Nor was the .
crocodile
honoured by them without a probable cause; bot is said to
·have been considered by them as a resemblance of divinity,
as being the orily animal that is without a tongue. For the
divine reason is uniodigent of voice, and proceeding through
a silentpath, and accompanied with• justice, conducts mortal
alfairsaccording to it. They also say it is the only animalliving
in water that bas the sight ofits eyes covered wi~h a thin and
transpare~t film, which descends from his forehead, so that
he sees without being seen, which is likewise the case with
the first God. But in whatever place the female crocodile
may lay her eggs, this may with certainty be concluded to be
the boundary of the increase of the Nile. For not being
able to lay their eggs in the water, and fearing to lay them
far from· it, they have such an accurate presensation of
futurity, that though they enjoy the benefit of the river in its
access, during the time of their laying and hatching, yet they
·preserve their eggs dry and untouched by the water. They
also lay sixty eggs, are the·same number of days in hatching
them, and those that are the longest lived among them live
just so many years, which numberis the first of the measures
employed by those who are conversant with the heavenly
bodies.
" Moreover, of those animals that were honoured for both
reasons, we have before spoken of the dog. But the ibis,
killing indeed all deadly reptiles, was the first that taught
men the use of medical evacuation, in consequence of ob-
serving that she is after this manner washed and purified by
•,Jnstead of *"'a1xt1s, I rf'tld ..., ,......,, ~IX'lf.
Digitized by Google
· or ·any thi.rig else pertaining to the bodies of
benelf. Those priests, also, that are most attentive to the
laws o£sacred rites, when they oonsecrate water for luatra:
.tion, fetch it from tbat place where the ibis had-been drink-
ing; for she will neither drink nor come near unwholesome
or infected water; but with the distance ofller feet from each
other and her bill she makes .an equilateral triangle. Farther
1till, tke variety and millttare of her blaek wings about the
white represents the moon when she is gibboils.
" ·We ought not, however, to wonder i[ the Egyptians
love such slender similitudes, since the Greeks also, both in
their pictures and statues, employ many such like resem-
blances of the Gods. Thus in Crete there was a statue of
Jupiter without ears. For it is fit that he who is the ruler
.
and lord of all things should bear no one•. Phidias also
placed a dragon by the statue of Minerva, and a 1nail by that
of Venus at Elis, to show that virgins require ·a guard, and
• that keeping at home and silence become married women.
But the trident of Neptune is a symbol of the third region ·
of the world, which the sea possesses, having an arrange-
ment after the heavens and the air. Hence, also, they thua
denominated Amphitrite and the Tritons. The Pythago-
reans, likewise, adorned numbers and figures with the
appellations of the Gods. For they called the equilateral
triangle, Minerva Corypbagenes, or begotten from the sum-
mit, and Tritogeneia because it is divided by three perpen-
diculars drawn fr~ the three angles. But they called IAe
-0ae Apollo, being persuaded to this by the obvious meaning
of the word Apollo [which signifies a privation of multitude]
and by the simplicity ofthe monadt. The duad they deJlO.
minated strife and audacity, and the triad justice. For
since injuring and being injured are two extremes subsisting
according to excess and defect, justice, through equality, baa
a situation in the middle. But what ia called the tetracty~
. • i. •· Should he perfectly impartial.
t Instead of 31<rAoT"1'01' ,..o...Oor, as lo the origaal, which is nonaeue, it
ii neoe11ary to read, u io the above trualatioo, -AOT11T( 'Mii ,..ordot.
Digitized by Google
239
animals, .or of ot.her things which are,offered ;
being the number 36, was, as is reported, their greatest oath,
and was denominated the world. For this number is formed
fr&a the composition of the four first even and the four first
~d numbers; collected into one sum•. If, therefore, the
m.ost approved of the philosophers did not think it proper to
neglect or despise any occult signification of a divine nature
'1rhen they perceived it even in things which are inanimate
11Dd. incorporeal, it appears to me that they,'in a still greater
degree, venerated tho.se peculiarities depending on mannera
which they saw in such natures as bad sense, and were en-
dued with soul, with passion, and ethical habits. We must
mbrace, therefore, not those who honour these things, but
tbo11e who reverence divinity through these, as through mo4t
clear mirrors, and which are produced by nature, in_ a be-
coming manner, conceiving them to be the instruments or the
art of the God by whom all things are perpetually adorned.
But we oughtto think that no inanimate being can be more ex.
cellent than one that is animated, nor an insensible than asen-
sitive being, not even though some one should collect together
all the gold and emeralds. in the universe. For the divinity
_
is not ingenerated either in colours, or figures, or 11mooth-
-ness; but such things as neither ever did, nor are naturally
adapted Jo participate of life, have an allotment more ignoble
than that of dead bodies. But the nature which lives and
sees, and has the principle of motion from itself, and a know-
ledge of things appropriate and foreign to its being, has cer-
tainly derived an elBux and portion of that wisdom which,
as Heraclitus says, considers bow both itself and the uni-
verse is governed. Hence the divinity is not worse repre-
sented in these animals than in the workmanships ofcopper
and stone, which in a similar manner.suffer corruption and
decay, but are naturally deprived ofall sense and conscious-
ness. This then I consider as the best defence that can be
given of the adoration of animals by the Egyptians."
• For 2+4~::;20; Incl I+s+@+7=16; ancl 2o+t6=36.
Digitized by Google
240
or a certain.nieinher, as the heart of a cock•;
or other things of the like kind which are sur-
veyed about nature, if they are considered as
the .cau$es .of the efficacy in sacrifices. For
from these things the Gods are not demon-
strated to be supernatural causes; nor, as such,
to he excited by sacrlfic~s. But they .are con-
sidered as physical causes detained by matter,
and as physically invo]ved in bodies, and co-
excited and becoming quiescent together with
them, these things also existing about nature.
If, therefore, any thing of this kind takes place
in sacrifices, it follows as a concause, and as
'1aving the relation of that without which a
thing is not effected; and thus it is suspended
from precedaneous causes.
CHAP. IX.
IT is better, therefore, to assign as the cause of
the efficacy of sacrifices friendship and fami-
liarity, and a hahitude which binds fabricators
to the things fabricated, and generators to the
• The cock was sacred to Apollo, and therefore its heart
was believed to be the instrument of divination in sacrifices.
The chemic Olympiodorus says, " that the cock obscurely
signifies the essence of the sun and moon." See, in the
addition~} notes, what is said by Proclus concerning the
cock, in his treatise On Magic.
Digitized by Google
241
things generated. Hence when, this common
principle preceding, we take a certain anim~J,
()r any thing -which germisiates in the earth,
and which genuinely and purely preserves the
wi11 of its maker; then, through a thing of this
kind, we appropriately move the demiurgic
cause, which presides over it in an undefiled
manner. But these causes being m~ny, and
some, as the dremoniacal causes, having a
proximate arrangement; but others, as divine
causes, being arranged above these ; and far-
ther still, one most ancient and venerable cause
being the leader of these ; all the causefl are
moved in conjunction by a perfect sacrifice.
·Each thing, likewise, is in a kindred manner
adapted to the sacrifice, according to the order
which it is allotted. But if any sacrifice is
imperfect, it proceeds to a certain extent, hut
is not capable ofproceeding any further. Hence
many are of opinion that sacrifices are to be
offered to good dremons, many to the last pow-
ers of the Gods, and many to the mundane or
terrestrial powers of dremons or Gods. These
things, therefore, as being a part of sacrifices,
are not falsely asserted ; but they do not com-
prehend the whole of the power of sacrifice,
and all the goods it contains, which extend to
every thing divine.
R
Digitized by Google
242
CHAP. X.
WE, howt;ver, admit all these assertions; pbjsi-
cal essences, indeed, being coexcited as in one
animal, according to aptitude or sympathy, as
in another respect being subjects, and foUowing
and being subservient to the cause of the effi-
cacy of sacrifices; but dremons, and terrene or
mundane divine powers, being primarily fami-
liarized to our order; nevertheless, we must
say, that the most perfect and leading cause of
the efficacy of sacrifices is to· be conjoined to
demiurgic and the most perfect powers. . But
since these comprehend· in themselves all the
causes of sacrifice, we say that all the effective
causes of it are at once coexcited together
with these. And from all these a common
utility is imparted to the whole of generation ;
sometimes through cities and people, or _all
various nations, or circumscriptions moreor less
_extended than these; but at other times through
houses, or an individual, these causes impart
good with an unenvying and exuberant wilJ,
unaccompanied with passion; conferring their
benefits with an impassive intellect, according
to adaptation and alliance; one friendship at
the same time which connectedly contains all
Digitized by Google
248
things, producing this bond through a certain
ineffable communion.
For these assertions are much more true,
and more characteristic of the essence and
power of the Gods, than what you suspect to
be the case, viz. " that the Gods are especiall'!I
allured by the vapours produced in the sacrifices
ofanimals." For if dremons are invested with
a certain body, which some think is nourished
by sacrifices, yet this body is immutable .and
impassive, luciform and unindigent; so that
neither does any thing flow from it, nor is it in
want of any influx externally introduced. And
if some one should admit that there is this
influx, yet since the world and the air con-
tained in it have a never failing abundance of
exhalations from terrene places, an eftlux of
this kind being equally diffused on all sides~
what use can there be of sacrifices to dremons?
But neither do the intluxions equally and com-
mensurately fill the 'place of the efHuxions, so
as that neither excess should at any time pre•
dominate, nor deficiency be produced, but that
there should be a perfect equality and simili-
tude of the bodies of dremons, and this invaria-
bly the same. For the Demiurgus of the uni-
verise has not provided abundant nutriment,
and which may be easily obtained, for all the
animals in the earth and the sea, hut has made
R2
Digitized by Google
244
the beings superior to us to be in want of it;
nor has he imparted to other animals a native
abundance of what is daily requisite, but given
to dremons nutriment which is adscititious and
procured by us men; so that if we through in-
dolence, or some other pretext, should neglect
an offering of this kind, the bodies of dreoions
would be in want of food, and would partici-
pate of incommensuration and disorder. Why,
therefore, do not the authors of these assertions
subvert the whole order of things, so as to
make us to be in a better and more powerful
class of beings? For if we supply dremons
with nutriment, we shall much more be the
-causes of their existence. For every thing re-
ceives nutriment and perfection from that by
which it was generated. And this, indeed, may
be seen in the visible generations of things; but
it may also be surveyed in the heavens and the
earth. For terrestrial are nourished by celes-
tial natures. But this becomes most eminently
manifest in invisible causes: For soul, indeed,
is perfected by intellect ; but nature by soul.
And other things are in a similar manner
11ourished by their causes. It; therefore, it is
impossible that we should be the primordial
causes of dremons, it is~ for the same reason,
impossible that we should be the .causes of
their nutriment.
Digitized by Google
CHAP.XI.
l'r appears to me, also, that the present ques-
tion errs in another respect. · For it is ignorant
that the offering of sacrifices ·through fire has
the power of consuming and destroying the
matter of them in a greater degree; that it
assimilates this matter to itself, but is not itself
assimilated to the matter; and that it elevates
to divine, celestial, and immaterial fire, but
does·.pot tend downwards to matter and gene-
ration. For if the enjoyment of the vapours
from matter allured dremons; it would be requi·'
site that the matter should be pure and entire ;
since thus there would be a more abundant
efflux from it to its pa~ticipants. But now all
the matter is enkindled and consumed, and is·
changed into the purity and tenuity of fire;
which is itself a clear indication of the contrary
to what you assert. For superior beings [i.e.
demons] are impassive, and they are delighted
to amputate matter through fire, and render us
impassive. They likewise assimilate whatever
16 m us to the Gods, in the same· manner as
fire• assimilates all solid and resisting sub-
• It ia well obse"ed by Ficinus, in lib. i. Eunead. ii.
Plotin. " that the fire which is enkindled by us is more
similar to the heavens than otl!er terrestrial substance$.
Digitized by Google
246
stances to luminous and attenuated bodies.
And they elevate us through sacrifices and the
sacrific fire to the fire of the Gods, in the same
manner as fire elevates to fire, and dta'A's-u~
ward gravitating and resisting substances to
divine and celestial natures~
CHAP. xn.
Foa, in short, the vehicle• which is subsenient
t-0 dmmons neither consists of matter, nor.of
the elements, nor of any other of the bodies
known ·to us. What perfect supply of food,
therefore, can there be from one essence to an-
other (specifically different]? Or what enjoy-
ment can accede from foreign to foreign natures?
There cannot be any. But much more, as the
Gods by the tire of lightning ·divide matter,
and separate from it things which are essen-
Beoee it participates of light, which is something incorpO-
real, ~ the most powerful of all things, is as it were vital, is
perpetually moved, divides all things, without being itself
divided, absorbs all things in itself, and avoids any foreign
mixture: and lastly, when the fuel ofit is consumed, it &!Jd-
denly flies back again to the celestial fire, which is every
where latent." ·
• For this vehicle is luciform, and consists ofpure, imma-
terial, unburning, and vivific fire. See the fiftlt book of my
translation of Proclus on the Timieus.
Digitized by Google
~47
tially immaterial, but which are vanquished
and bound by it, and render them imp~ssive
from being passive ; thus also the fire that is ,
with us, imitating the energy of divine .fire,
destr-0ys every thing which is material in sacri-
fices, purifies the things which are offered,
liberates them from the bonds of matter, and
renders them, through purity ofnature, adapted
to the communion of the Gods. It likewise·
liberates• us after the same manner from the
bonds ofgeneration, assimilates us to the Gods,
causes us to be adapted to their friendship.
and·conducts our material nature to an imma-
terial essence•
. • Proclus in Tim. lib. v. observes concerping the telestic
art, or the art which operates through mystic ceremonies,
" that, as the oracles teach, it obliterates through divine fire
all the stains produced by generation." H TtXm1C'1 01a Toll
61&011 'l'llf?Of ~t{>iilft(ti ra( . ffC T'1<; 'YflfEO'Et.I( a11'aO'a<; ICfl>.tCa(, Uf
ru Xoyiu oicaO'rm. Hente another Chaldean oracle says,
Ti" 'lrvp·, yap {3poro.( tµ71't\aO'a<; OtoOt" cpao<; t~u. i. e. " The
mortal who approaches to fire will have a light frotn divi-
nity." Hercules, as we also learn from Proclus, was an
e:mample :of this telestic purification. For he says, HpaicXJ#c
cia TEXE1'UC'1<; ica6ypaµ£1fO<;, icai Tt.IJI a'XPaJITt.IJI r:ap7t't.1JI µtraO'-
X"'"• rtXua~ ETV~l ti<; rove Otovc a7t'or:ara~aO't"1<;, in Plat.
Polit. p•. 382. i.e.·" Hercules being purified through the
teleatic art, and participating of undefiled fruits, obtained a
perfect restoration to the Gods."
Digitized by Google
248
CHAP. Xlll.
SUBVERTING, therefore, in this manner the
common absurd opinions concerning sacrifices,,
we shaJl introduce in their place true concep-
tions about them ; omitting the particular .dis- ·
cuss.ion of each species of sacrifice, which.the
peculiar and distinct consideration of sacrifices
requires, because this pertains to another in-
quiry, and because, at the same time, every
one who is intelligent may be able to accom-
plish this from what has been already said; aQd.
from one thing may extend his reasoning pow.
er
to many, and may easily know what is omitted
from what has been discussed. And I, indeed,
think that these things have been sufficiently
explained, both in other respects .and because
the explanation pays attention in a becoming
manner .to the purity of the Gods. Becau~,
however, it may perhaps appear to others to be
incredible, and not sufficiently µianifest, and
the veracity of it may be suspected, as not ex-
citing the discursive energy of reason, I wish
to consider these things a little more fully ;
and, if possible, to add arguments more evident
than those which have been adduced.
Digitized by Google
249
CHAP. XIV.
WE shall ~egio, however, the elucidatic;m of.
this subject in the best possible manner, if we
demonstrate that the.sacr~d law,of sacrifi,ces is.
coon.
ected with the order of the G9ds. In ~h~.
first place, therefore, we say, that of the Gods,
some are.material, but others immaterial. And,
the .material, indee4, are those that compre-,
bend .Watter in themselves, and ;idorn it ;_but
the .immaterial are . thos~ _
that are p~rfectly.
eJCenipt from,. and transceqd, . rµatte~. B,ut,.
acco1.;ding to the sacrific art, it. is requisite t<>;
begin sacred operations from the ~aterial Gods·:
for the:ascenl to the immater~al Gods will no~
otherw,ise be etfected. The material .God~
therefore, have a certain comruu~iou with mat;
ter, so far as they preside over it. Hence they
have dominion over things which happen about
matter, such as the division, percussion, re- .
percussion1 mutation, generation, and corrup-
tion of all material bodies. .He, therefore, whQ.
wishes to worship these theurgically, in a man:i:
oer adapted to them,, and to the dominion
which they are a1lotted, should, as they are
material, employ a material mode of worship.
For thus we-shall be wholly led to a familiarity
with ~hem, . and worship them in an a11ied :anc\
Digitized by Google
250
appropriate manner. Dead bodies, therefore,
and things deprived of life, the slaying of ani-
mals, and the consumption of victims, and, in
shott, the rtiutation of the matter which is
offered, pertain to .these Gods, not by them-
selves, but on account of the matter over,which
tbey ·preside. For though they are in the most
eminent degree separate from it, yet at the same
time they are present with it. And though they
comprehend matter in an immaterial power,.
yet they are coexistent with it. Things that
are governed, also, are not foreign .from theiir
governors ; and things which are subsel"fient
as instruments, are ·not unadapted to those
that use them.. Hence, it is foreign to the im-
material Gods, to offer matter to them through
sacrifices, but this is most adapted .to all the
material Gods.
CHAP. XV.
LET .u~ then, in the next .place, direct our
attention to that :Which accords with what has
been before said, and with ,our twofold con-
dition of being. For there is a time when we
become wholly soul, are out of the body, and
sublimely revolve on high, .in conjunction with
all the immaterial Gods. And there is also a
Digitized by Google
2:)1
time when we are boned in the testaceous
body, are detained by matter, and are of a
corp0real-formed nature. Again, therefore,
there.will be atwofold tnode of worship. For
one mode, indeed, wiU be simple, incorp0real,
and pure from all generation, ancl this mode
pertains to undefiled souls. But the other is
tUted with b6dies, and every thing of a material
nature,' and is adapted to souls wfrich are
neither pure nor liberated· from all generation.-
We must admit, therefore, that there are two..\
mid species of sacrifices; one kind, indeed, per-
taining to men who are entirely purified, which,
as Heraclitus says, rarely happens to one
man, or to a certain easily to be numbered feVf'.
of mankind ; but the <?ther kind, being material ·
and corporeal-formed, and consisting in muta-
tion, is adapted to souls that are still detained
by the body. Hence, to cities and people not
yet liberated from genesiurgic fate and the im-
peding communion of bodies; ifisuch a mode of
sacrifice as this latter is ·not permitted, ·they
will wander both from immaterial and material
go.od. For· they will not he able · to receive·
· the:former, and to the latter they will not offer
what is appropriate. At the same time, like-
wise, every one in sacrificing performs the
sacrifice with reference to what he is, and riot
. with reference to what he is not. It is not
Digitized by Google
252
proper, therefore, that the sacrifice should tran-
scend the proper measure of him by whom it
is offered. The same thing will also be said by
me concerning the connexion which appropri.. .
ateJy coadapifJ the men who worship and the
powers that are worshiped. For this con.
nexion requires that a mode of w~rship should
·be chosen adapted to itself; viz; an immaterial
cq[}nexion, a mode of worship immaterially
mingled, and purely conjoiniog by pure incor-
poreal powers, incorporeal natures to them-
selves; but a corppreal..formed connexion, a
corporeal-formed mode which depends on bo-
dies, and is mingled with tbe essences that pre'!"
side over bodies,
CHAP. XVI.
·FAR'l'HER still, therefore, we must not disdain
to add what follows ; that we frequently per-
form something to the Gods who are the in-
spective guardiansofbody, and to good dalmoos,
for the sake of the necessary use:of the body;
as, for instance, when [by sacrifices] we purify
it from ancient stains, or liberate it from ·dis..
eases, and fill it with health, or remove from it
heaviness and torpor, or procure for it any other
good. · In this case, ·therefore, we evidently
Digitized by Google
253
must not busy ourselves with the body in an
intellectual and incorporeal manner. For the
body is not adapted to participate of modes
of this kind; but, obtaining things which are
allied to itself, it is meliorated and purified by
·bodies. The rites of ~acrifices, therefore, will
necessarily, for a purpose of this kind, be cor-
poreal-formed ; partly cutting offwhat is super...
fiuous in us; partly supplying us with that of
which we are in want; and partly leading into
symmetry and order such things in us as are
immoderately disturbed. We a)so frequently
engage in sacred operations, entreating supe-
rior beings to grant us such things as are
adapted to. the wants of human life. And
·these are such as preserve the body in health,
or pertain to those things which we procure for
the sake of the body.
CHAP. XVII.
WHAT, therefor~ shall we derive from the ·
Gods. who are entirely exempt from all human
generation, with respect to sterility, or abun-
dance, or any thing else pertaining to [the
mortal] life? Nothing whatever. For it is not
the province of those who are liberated from
all things to meddle with gifts of this kind.
Digitized by Google
264
But if some one should say that the perfectly
immaterial comprehend in themselves the ma-
terial Gods, and that through this tney also
contain in themselves their gifts according to
one first cause; such a one will also say, that
in consequence of this an abundance of divine
gifts ·descend from the immaterial Gods. It
must not, however, be granted to any one to
say that the immaterial Gods bestow these
gifts by proximately interfering with the actions
of human life. For such an administration of
of our affairs is partible, is accomplished with a
certain conversion [to the subjects of its care],
is not entirely separate from bodies, and is in-
capable of receiving a pure and undefiled domi-
nation. Will not, therefore, that mode of
sacrifice in works of this kind be most appro-
priate which is mingled with bodies, and ad•
heres to generation; and not that which is
entirely immaterial and incorporeal? For-the
pure mode of sacrific_e is perfectly transcendent
and incommensurate [with our concerns]. But
the mode which employs bodies,- and the powers
that subsist through bodies, is in the most emi-
nent degree allied to human affairs. It is .also
capable of producing a certain prosperous con-
dition ofthings, and ofimparting symmetry and
temperament to the mortal race.
Digitized by Google
256 .
CHAP. XVIIl.
AccoRDING to another division, therefore, the
numerous herd [or the great mass] of men is
arranged under nature, is governed by physical
powers, looks downward to the works ofnature,
gives completion to the administration of Fate,
and to things pertaining to.Fate, because it be-
longs to the order of it, and always employs
practical reasoning about such particulars alone
as subsist according to nature. But there are
a certain few who, by employing a certain
supernatural power of intellect, are removed
indeed from nature, but are conducted to a
separate and unming1ed intellect; and these,
at the same time, become superior to physical
powers. Others again, who are the media be-
tween these, tend to things which subsist be-
tween nature and a pure intellect. And of
these, some indeed equally follow both nature
and an immaculate intellect; others embrace a
life which .is mingled from both ; and others
are liberated from things subordinate, and be~
take themselves to such as are more excel~
lent..
This division, therefore, being made, that
which fol.lows will inost manifestly take place.
For those who are governed by the n~lture of
Digitized by Google
256
the universe, who live cooformably to this, and
employ the powers of nature, these should
embrace a mode of worship adapted to nature,
and to the bodies that ·are moved by nature,
and should choose for this purpose appropriate
places, air, matter, the powers of matter, bodies,
and the habits of bodies, qualities, and ·proper
motions, the mutations of things in generation,
and other things connected with these, both in
other parts of piety and in that part of it which
pertains to sacrifice. But those who live con"'.'
formably to intellect alone, and to the life of in-
tellect, and are liberated from the bonds of
nature, these should exercise in all the parts of
theurgy the intellectual and incorporeal mode
of wor!!ship. And those who are the media be-
tween these, should labour differently in the
paths of piety, conformably to the difference~
of this middle condition of life, either by em-
bracing both modes of piety, or separating
themselves from one of the modes [and adhering
to the other], or receiving both these·modes as
the foundation of things of a more honourable
nature. For without these they never can
arrive at things supereminent. Or, in some
other way, they should thus, in a becoming
manner, labour in the paths.?f sanctity.
Digitized by Google
•
CHAP. XIX.
ON this subject; however, theJ,"e is also .the fol·
lowing division. Ofdivine essences and powers
some have [a geuesiurgic] soul and nature.sub.
ject and ministrant to their fabrications, when.
ever they wish to use them. But others are
entirely separate from soul and nature, I mean
from a divine, and not only from a mundane
and genesiurgic soul and nature•. And others
are the mediat. between these; and afford to
the extremes a communion with each other,
either according to an exuberant participation
of.greater good, or according to an unimpeded
reception of less good, or according to a con·
cord which binds together both the extremes.
When, therefore, we worship the Gods who
"' In.the original, X''Y"' ;le Tfl( Bua~ i/Jvx.11~ re ""' <;vrm~(,
aXX' ovx_i T1]( 1upo:ot1µ.iov TE icai yEvetriovpyov. But it ap-
pears to me that we should here read, conformably to the
above translation, AE'Y"' iE Tfl( Beia( i/Jvx.11~ TE ica1 tpVO'E"'(•
aM' ovx.i µ.011011 Tfl' 'r_Epo:ot1µ.io11 TE ""' "(EllEtltOVp"(OV.
t These media consist of the order of Gods denominated
apx_a,, or rulers, and of those called aroXvroi, or liberated;
the rormer.of which also are denominated supennu'"'4rae.
and the .latter npercelestial, in consequence of existing im-
medi~tely above the celestial Gods. See, concerning these
media,· the' sixth book of my translation of Proclus on the
Theology of Plato.
s
'
Digitized by Google
258
reign over soul and nature, it is not foreign to
these to offer to them physical powers, and
bodies which are governed by nature. For all
the works of nature are eubservient to them,
and contribute to their government. But when
we undertake to honour those Goas who are
essentially uniform, then it is requisite to vene-
rate them with liberated honours. Hence, in-
tellectual gifts are adapted to these, and things
which pertain to an incorporeal life, together
with the fruits of virtue and wisdom, and what-
ever perfect and total goods of the soul there
may be. Moreover, to the Gods who subsist
as media, and who are the leaders of goods ofa
middle nature, sometimes twofold gifts will be
adapted, and sometimes such as have a com-
munication with both these; or such as are
separated from inferiors, and pertain to more
elevated natures ; or, in short, such as in one
of the modes give completion to the medium.
CHAP. XX.
. BEING impelled, therefore, from another prin-
. ciple, viz. from the world and the mundane
Gods·, from the arrangement ofthe four elements
in the world, and the association ofthe elements
according to [appropriate] measures, and also
Digitized by Google
269
from the orderly circulation of bodies about
centres,·we shall have an easy -ascent to th'e
truth Of the piety respecting sacrific_
es. For if
~e are in the world, are contained as parts in
the universe, are primarily produced by it, anrl
perfected by the total powers that are in it,
and if we consist of its elements, and receive
from it a certain portion of life and nature; if
this be the case, it is not proper to pass be-
yond the world and the mundane orders. We
must admit, therefore, that in each part of the
world there is this visible body, and that there
are also incorporeal powers, which are divided
about bodies. Hence the law of religion dis-
tributes similars to similars, and thus extends
from on high, through wholes, as far as to the
last of things; assigning, indeed, incorporeals
to incorporeals, but bodies to bodies, and this
.conirnensurately to the 'nature of each. If,
however, some theurgist should participate of
the supermundane Gods, }Vhich is the rarest
of all things, he, indeed, in the worship of the
Gods- will transcend both bodies and matter;
being united to the Gods by a supermundane
power.· . But that which happens to one person
with difficulty and late, and at the end of the
sacerdotal office, ought not to be promulgated
f
as common to all nien ; nor ought it to be
made a thing common to _
those who are com-
s 2
' I
Digitized by Google
260
mencing theurgic operations, oor to .those who
have made a middle proficiency in ·it. For
these, after a manner, pay a <;:orporeal-formed
attention to sanctity.
' .
CHAP. XXI.
I 'l'HINK, therefore, that all who are lovers of
the contemplation oftheurgic truth will acknow;
. . .
ledge this, that the piety which pertains to
divine natures ought_not to he exercised to-
wards them partiaUy or imperfectly. Hence,
since prior to the appearance of the Gods, all
such powers as are presubjacent to them are
moved, and when the Gods are about to de-
scend to the earth, precede them as in a solemn
procession•; he who does not distribute to all
these powers that which is adapted _
to them,
• Proclos on the First Alcibiades observes, " that about
every God there is an innumerable multitude of dremons,
who have the same appellations with their leaders. And
that these are delighted when they are called by the names of
Apollo or Jupiter, because they express in themselves the
characteristic peculiarity of their leading Gods." In the
same 1¥1mirable commentary, also, he says, " that in the
most holy of the mysteries [i.e. in the Eleusinian mysteries],
prior to the appearance of divinity, the incursions of certain
terrestrial dremons present themselves to the view, alluring
ibe souls of the spectators from undefiled good to matter.''
Digitized by Google
261
and does not honour each in an appropriate
nianner, will depart imperfect, and destitute of
the participation of the Gods. But be who
propitiates all of them, and offers to · each
acceptable·gifm; and such as are to the utmost
of his power adapted to them, will always
remair;i secure·and irreprebensible, giving com-
pletion in a proper inanner tO the perfect and
entire receptacle of the divine choir. · Since
this, therefore, is the case, whether is it.neces-_
sary that the mode of sanctity should be simple,
and .consist of a certain ·few things, or that it
should be multiform and all-harmonic, 'and
I • . . . , . ,
mingled, as .I may. say, 'from every thing cQn..
tained in the world ? If, indeed, the power
which is invoked, and is excited in the per-
formance of sacred rites, was simple, the mode
of sacrifice should necessarily be simple. But
if the multitude of powers which are excited
when the Gocis descend and are moved, is not
to be comprehended by any one, except theur-
gists alone, who accurately know this through
experience in sacred operations ; if this be the
case, they alone are capable of knowing what
the perfection is of the sacrific art; and they
also know that the omission, though of a few
things, subverts the whole work of religion;
just as in harmony, from the bursting of one
\
Digitized by Google
262
chord, :the whole becomes dissonant and. in-
commensurate•.. As, therefore, in the visible
descents of the Gods, a manifest injury is
sustained by those who )eave some one of the
_more exceJlent genera unhonouredt, thus also
• It is beautifully observed by Simpliciaa on Epictetus,
" that as if you take away letters from a sentence, or change
them, the form of the sentence no longer remains, thus also
in divine works or words, if any thing is deficient, or is
changed, or is confused, divine illumination does not take
place, but the indolence of him who does this dissolves the
power of what is effected." !lwtp yap Eav ~oixua TOii
>..oyo11 m/1EX?J'• ,f 111ra>..>..a£?1'• 011ic nriytJ1ETat ro ro11 >..oyo11
nco,, oVT"' icai r"'"· 0
8£&"'" EP'Y"'" if Xo'Y"'" n EXXmrn n, q
1111''1Uaicrai. ,f O'V')'ICEXVTai, 011ic eiriy1J1Erai '1 TOV 8uo&1 EX-
>..aµtfiir, aUa ""' i£uoapo' T'Jll T'~" 'Y'"oµiv"'" cv,,ap.i11 '1
TOii 'll'O&OIWTO' pa8vµia.
t Conformably to this, Servius, in his Annotations on the
words .
Diique, dereque omnes-
in the sixth book of the lEneid observes, "more pontificum,
per quos ritu veteri in omnibus sacris post speciales Deos,
qnos ad ipsum sacrum, quod fiebat necesse erat invocari,
generaliter omnia numina invocabantur." . i. e. " This is
spoken after the manner of the pontiffs, by whom, according
to ancient rites, in all sacrifices, after the appropriate Gods
whom it was necessary to invoke· to the sacrifice, all tho
divinities were invoked in general." And in his Annota-
tions on the seventh of the lEneid he informs us, " that king
<Eneus offered a sacrifice of first fruits to all the divinities
bot Diana, who being.enraged sent a boar [as a p~ishment
for the neglect]." With respect to this anger, however, of
Digitized by Google
263
in the invisible appearances of the Gods·in
sacrifices, it is not proper to · honour ~e of
them, and ·not honour another, but jtis entiPely
requisite to honour each of them ·according to
the order which .he is allqtted. ·.But: he who
leaves some one of them unhonou~d:,; com
founds the whole work Of piety, and .divnlses ·
the one and whole orderly distribution of it;
not, in so doing, as some one may think;imper-
fectly receiving the Gods, but entirely sub-
verting all the ceremonies of religion,
CHAP. XXII.
WHAT then [it may be said], does not the sum-
mit of the sacrific art recur to the most pt·inci-
pal one of the whole multitude of Gods, and
at one and the same time worship the many
essences and principles that are .[rooted an'd
concentred] in it? Entirely so, but this happens
at the latest period, and .to a very few, and we
must be satisfied if it takes place when the sun
of life is setting. Our presentdiscussion, how-
Diana, it is necessary to observe with Proclos, " that the
anger of the Gods does not refer any passion to them, but in-
dicates our inaptitude to participate of them." 0 yap r""
Ouw xoXo~, OlllC m; EICE&Va( a11aff6/.'1fU Ti 1fa8o,, aUa TIJJI
"""~" ~E&ICJll/11£ avwi,.,,~tioT.,ra T'I~ tKUV61V µt8t~t"''·
Digitized by Google
•
"·
ever, .does;'not ordain -laws for a man of this
kind; . for he .is saperior to an law•; but it
promulgates a ·1aw.such as that of which we
are now speaking, to.those who are in want of
a certain ·divine legislation t. It ·says, there-
fore, that as the world ·has one.coal'rangement
from. many orders, thus also it is· necessary
that the •c0nsummation of..sacrifices, being
00~'311 failing and entire,. should ·be c'onjoined to
the· w'ole ! order of oiore excellent natures.
If, however," the world is multiform, and all-
perfect, and is united from many orders, it is
also necessary that sacred operations should
imitate its omniform variety through the whole
of the powers which they employ. Hence, in
a similar manner, since the things which sur-
round us are all-various, it is not fit that we
should be ;eonnected :with the divine causes
• ·Plounus ~a8 a man.of this description, to whom, most
probably, Ianiblichii!f alludes in what .he now say&
· t In the original 811µ011 rc.,o, : but it is doubtless requisite
tq read with Qale, 81t1µ011 TiJ10~. .
This l have translated
a cerlaix divixe legu{O,tion. because we are informed by
Proclus, in Platon.' Theol. lib. iv. p. 200, " that 8Et1µ0' is
connected with deity, and pertains more to intelligibles ;
but that· ~oµo,, which unfolds intellectual distribution, is
adapt.ed to the intellectual fathers." 0 "'ftJP 8Et1µof t111µrr°A.E-
crii Tt> 81t'• mi rp'«111i:tu ,µaA>..o., rOH' "O'ITO"" 0 iE JIOJ'Ot
Tfr >'OEf>OJ! EJ'f'UJ!.l#Ji ccaJ10µ.11.,. oiimoc ~' roic J!OEf>O" rraT-
pat1i.
Digitized by Google
that _'preside over them, from a certain ·part
':'hicb they contain. Nor is·it pr.oper that ~e
should ascerid :imperfectly to the ·primol'dial
causes ·orthem. .:
. 'CHAP. XXlll.
THE various mode, therefore, of sanctity in
~red .ope.ratiOns partly purifies .and: partly
perfects ·some one of the things that are in us
or about us. And some things, indeed, it re-
·stores to symmetry and order; but others it
liberates from mortal-formed error. But it
renders all things familiar and friendly to all
the natures that .are superior to us.. .More-
over, when divine causes, and human prepara·
tions which are assimilated to'th~m, conspire.in
one and·the.same, then the perfection ofsacred
operations imparts·all the perfect and great
benefits.ofsacri~ce. .It will not be.amiss, also, to
add such particulars as the following, in order
to the accurate comprehension of these things.
An exuberance ofpower is always presellt with
the highest causes, and at the same time tJ:iat
this power transcends all things, it is equally
present with all with unimpeded energy. Hence,
cooformably to this, the 6rst illuminate the last
of things, and immaterial are,present with ma..
Digitized by Google
266
terial natures immaterially. . Nor should it be
considered_
by any one as wonderful, if we say
that there is a certain pur.e and divine mattert'.
For matter being generated by the father and
demiurgus of wholes, receives a perfection
adapted to itself, in order to its becoming the
receptacle of the Gods. At the same time
nothing prevents more excellent beings from
being able to impart their light to subordinate
natures. Neither, therefore, is matter sepa-
.rat~ from the participation of better causes;
so that such matter as is ·perfect, _
pure, and
bonifonn, is not unadapted to the reception of
the Gods. For, since it is reqnisite that ter-
' restrial natures should by no means be desti-
tute of divine communion, the earth also re-
ceives a certain divine portion from it, sufficient
for the participaiion ofthe Gods. The theurgic
art., therefore, perceiving this to be·the case,
and thus having discovered in common, appro-
priate receptacles, ~onformably to the pecu-
• " Perhaps," say11 Prpclns, in MS. Comment. in Par-
menid. " ii is nece88ar1 that, as in souls, natures, and bodies,
fabrication does not begin from the imperfect ; so likewise in
matter, prior to that which is formless, and which has an
evanescent being, there is that which is in a certain respect
form, and which is beheld in one boundary and permanency."
This, therefore, will be th~ pore and divine matter of which
laioblichus is now speaking. Damascios also says, that
matter is from the saQle order whence form is derived.
Digitized by Google
267
liarity of each of the Gods, it frequently con-
nects together stones, herbs, aoimals, aromatics,
and other sacred, perfect, and deiform sub-
stances of the like kind ; and afterwards; from
all these, it produces an entire and pure re-
ceptacle. For it is not proper to despise all
matter; but that alone which is foreign from
the Gods. · But that matter is to be chosen
I
which is adapted to them, as being able to
accord with the·edifices of the Gods, the dedi-
cation of statues, and the sacred. operations
of_ sacrifices. For no otherwise can a. partici-
pation of superior beings be obtained by places
in the earth, or by men that dwell in it, unle8s
a foundation of this kind is first established.
It is <ilso requisite to be persuaded h!J arcane
assertions, that a certain,matter is imparted h!J
the Gods, through blessed visions. This matter,
therefore; is ·doubtless connascent with those
by whom it is imparted. Hence, does it not
follow that the sacrifice of a matter of this
kind excites the Gods to present themselves to
the view, immediately calls forth the ·participa-
tion of them, receives them when they accede~
and perfectly unfolds them into light?
Digitized by Google
268
CHAP. XXIV.
Ta~ same things also may be learned from
the di.$tribution ofthe Gods according to places;
and from this, and the partible dominion over
each particular thing, it may be seen how many
allotments, greater or less, superior beings are
assigned according to· their different orders.
For it is evident,.that to the Gods who preside
over certain places, the things produced by
tb~m are most appropriately offered fo sacri-
fice; and that what pertains to the governed is
w-0st adapted to be sacrificed. to the·governors.
For· always to makers their own works are
particularly grateful; and to those who pri-
marily produce certain things, such things are
primarily acceptable. Whether, therefore, cer-
tain animals, or plants, or any other produc-
UQns of the earth, are governed by superior
beings, at one and the same time, they partici.
pate.of their inspective care, and impart to us
aa indivisible communion with the Gods. Some
things, therefore~ of this kind, if they are care-
fully preserve.d, iocr~ase the familiarity of those
that retain them with the Gods ; and these are
such as by remaining entire, preserve the com-
munion between .Gods and men. Of this kind
are some of the ani~als in Egypt, and man,
Digitized by Google
wbo i$ .everywhere sacred. But.sQme things; .
wh~n ,consecrated, produce .a.more manifest
familiarity.; and these are s.uch .
as by an .analy-
sis. into the principle of the first elements, effect
Rn.alliance more·sacredly adapted to superior
causes. For the more perfect this alliance is,
ihe· more perfect .always is the good which is
imparted by it..
CHAP. XXV. ·
IF, therefore, these things 'Were human customs
alone, and derived their autl:tprity through our
legal institutions, it might be said that the
worship of the Gods was the invention of our
conceptions. Now, ho:wever, divinity is the
leader of it, who is .thus invoked by sacrifices,
and who is surrounded by a numerous multi-
tude of Gods and ange1s. Under him, li~e­
wise, a certain common presiding power, is
aUotted dominion according to each nation of
the earth. And a peculiar presiding power is
allotted to each temple. Of the sacrifices,
also, which are performed tQ the Gods, the
inspective guardian is a, God; but an angel, of
those which are performed to angels ; and a
dremon, of such as are performed to dremons..
After the same manner, also, in other sa~red
Digitized by Google
270
operations, the presiding power is allotted do-
minion over each, in a way aUied to his proper
genus. W~en, therefore, we ·offer $8.Crifices to
the Gods, accompanied by the presiding Gods,
who give completion to sacred operations, then
at the same time, it is necessary in sacrifices to
venerate the sacred Jaw of divine sanctity;
and at the same time, also, we ought to be
confident, as sacrificing under the Gods who
are the rulers of such works. We ought, like-
wise, to be very cautious, Jest we should offer
any gift unworthy of, or foreign from, the
Gods. And, as the last admonition, we should
in a manner entirely perfect, pay attention to
aH that surrounds us, and to the Gods, angels,
and dremons that are distributed according to
genera in the universe. And to all these, in a
similar manner, an acceptable sacrifice should .
be offered; for thus alone sanctity can be pre-
served in a way worthy of the Gods who pre-
side over it.
CHAP. XXVI.
S1NcE, however, prayers are not the smallest
[but on the contrary a very great] part of sacri-
fices, especially give completion to them, and
through these the whole operation of them is
corroborated and effected; and ,since, besides
Digitized by Google .
271
this, they afford a common utility to religion~
~nd produce an indissoluble and .sacred ·com-
~union with the Gods, it will not be ·improper
to discuss a few particulars concerning prayer.
For this is of i~elf a thing worthy to be known,
and renders more perfect the science concern-
ing the Gods. I say, therefore, that the first
species of prayer is collective; and that it is
also the leader of contact with, and a know-
ledge of, divinity. The sec~d speciei,;1 is the
hond of concordant communion, ca1ling forth,
prior to the energy of speech, the gifts im~
parted by the Gods, and perfecting the whole
of our operations prior to our intellectual con-
ceptions. And the third and most perfect
species of prayer is the seal of ineffable union
with tke divinities, in whom it establishes all
the ·power and authority of prayer; and thus
causes the soul to repose in the Gods, as in ~
never failing port. But from these three terms,
in which all the divine measures are contained,
suppliant .adoration not only conciliates to us
the friendship of the Gods, but supernally ex-
tends to us three fruits, being as it were three
Hesperian apples of gold•. Thejfrst of these
• This particular respecting the apples of gold is added
from the version of Scutellius, who appears to have trans-
lated this work from a more perfect manuscript than that ·
which was used by Gale.
Digitized by Google
272
pertains to ill'U11llination; the.second, to a com-
munion of operation; but through the energy
of the third, we receive a perfect plenit'Utk of
tJiVine fire. And sometimes, iqdeed, supplica-
tion precede$;. like a precursor preparing the
~ay before the sacrifice appears. But some-
times it intercedes as a mediator; and some-
tim~s accomplishes tke end of sacrificing. No
operation, however, in sacred concerns, can
succeed without the intervention of prayer.
Lastly,thecontinualexerciseofprayernourishes
the vigour of our intellect, and renders the
receptacles of the soul far more capacious for
the communications of the Gods. It likewise
is the divine key, which opens to men the pene-
tralia of the Gods ; accustoms us to the splen-
did rivers of supernal light; in. a short time
pe~~ts oar inmost recesses, and disposes them
for th~ ineffable. embrace and contact of the
Ood&; and does not desist till it raises us to
the summit ofall. It also gradually and silently
draws upward the manners of our soul, by
dive~ting the~ of every thing foreign to a divine
nature, and .clothes us with the perfections of
the Gods. Besides this, it produces a~ in-
dissoluble communion and friendship with di-
vinity, nourishes a divine love, and inflamefJ
the divine part of the so~I. Whatever is of an
opposing and contrary nature in the soul. it
· Digitized by Google
273
expiates and purifies; expels whatever is prone
to generation, and retains any thing of the dregs
of mortality in its etherial and splendid spirit;
perfects a good hope and ·faith concerning the
reception of divine light; and, in one·word,
renders those by whom ·it is employed the
familiars and domestics of the Gods. Ifsuch,
then, are the advantages of prayer, and such
its connexion with sacrifice, does it not appear
from hence that the end of sacrifice is a con-
junction with the Demiurgus of the world ?
And the benefit of prayer is of the same extent
with the good which is conferred by the demi-
urgic causes on the race of lllOrtals. Again,
from hence the anagogic, perfective, and re-
pleniskin,g power of prayer appears; likewise
how it becomes ·efficacious and unific ; and
.how -it possesses a common bond imparted by
the Gods. And, in the third and last place, it
may easily be conceived from ~ence how prayer
and sacrifice mutually corroborate and confer
on each other a sacred and perfect power in
divine concerns.
Hence, since it appears that there is a per-
fect conspiration and cooperation of the sacer-
dotal discipline with itself, and that the parts
of it are more connascent than those of any
animal, being entirely conjoined through one
T
Digitized by Google
27f
connexion ; this being the cai;e, it is not by any
means proper to neglect this concord, nor to
admit some of its parts aQ,d r.ej~ct Qthers ; but
it is fit that all ofthem should be exercised in a
similar manner, and that tho~e shqulcJ be per-
fected through all of them who whih to be
genuinely conjoined to the Gods. Tbes~ things
therefore, cannot subsist otherwise.
Digitized by Google
275
SECTION VI.
CHAP. I.
IT is now, however, time for me to pass on to the
next doubt which you propose, viz. " Why it is
requisite that tke inspector [who presides over
sacred rites] ought not to touch a dead body,
thouglt most sac1·ed operations are performed
througlt dead bodies ?" Again, therefore, that
we may disso]ve this doubt, we shall direct
our attention to- this apparent opposition; for.
there is not in reality any, but these things
alone seem to subsist contrarily. For if the
laws of sacred rites ordered that the same dead
bodies should not be to~1ched and should be
touched, this wou]d be a thing contrary. to
itself. But if they order that some dead bodies
should be abstained from as impure, but that
otherswhich are consecrated should betouched,
this ii;; not attended with any contrariety. Far-
ther still, it is not lawful to touch human
,
bodies when the soul has left them, since a cer-
tain vestige, image, or representation of divine
T2
Digitized by Google
~76
life is extingui~hed in the body by death. But
it is no longer unholy t.o touch other dead
bodies, because they did not [when living] par-
ticipate of a more divine life. To other Gods,
therefore, who are pure from matter, our not
touching dead bodies is adapted'; but to those
Gods who preside over animals, and are proxi-
mately connected with them, invocation through
animals is properly made. According to this,
therefore, no contrariety takeH place.
CHAP. II.
-
AFTER another manner, also, this doubt may be
dissolved. , For iu men, indeed, who are de-
tained in J.!latter, bodies deprived of life pro-
duce a certain stain ; because that which is
not alive inserts a certain defilement in that
which is living, in the same manner as the im-
pure in that which is pure, and t.hat which is in .
privation in that which is in habit ; and also
because .that which is dead produces a certain
po1lutioo, ,through a physical aptitude to a
worse condition, in consequence.of having pos-
sessed the power of dying. But a dead body
canuot produce any defilement in a dremon
who is perfectly incorpore:al, and does not re-
cei\'e any corruption. For it is necessary that
Digitized by Google
277
he should transcend a corrupti.hle body, and
not participate of any· representation of" cor-
ruption from·it. And thus much in answer to
the contrariety of the doubt.
CHAP. III.
IN the next place we shall explain how divi-
nation is ~ffected through sacred animals, such,
for instance, as hawks. We must never say,
therefore, that the Gods accede through bodies
that are thns procured, being employed. For
they do not preside over animals, either parti-
bly, or proximately, or materialJy, or with a
certain habitude towards them. But to dremons
and these such as are ver~ much divided, to
·different orders ofwhom different animals are
aJlotted, and who proximately exercisea govern~
ment of this kind, and do not obtain ·their
proper dominion in a way perfectly·indepen-
dent and immaterial, such a contact with the
organs of divination must be ascribed. Or, if
some one is willing so to admit, a seat must be
attributed to· them, through which we may he
able to associate with and employ them. It is
necessary, therefore, to think · that this seat
should be pure from .bodies. For there can
be no ·communion whatever between ·the pure
Digitized by Google
278
and its contrary; but it is r~onab1e to admit
that this seat is conjoined with ·men, thtough
the soul of anima]s. For this soul has a certain
alliance to men, through homogeneity of life ;
but it is al1ied to dremons, because, being libe-
rated from body, it 'has in a certain respect a
separate subsistence. Hence, being a medium
between both, it is subservient to its presiding
dremon, but announces to those who are yet
.detained in body that which its prefect com-
mands. · And it imparts to both these a com-
mon bond with each other.
CHAP. IV.
IT is necessary, however, to think that the soul
which uses divination of this kind, not only
becomes an auditOr of the prediction, but also
contributes in no small degree from itself to
the consummation of it, and of what pertains
to its operations. For this soul is coexcited
and cooper~es, and at the same time fore-
knows, through a certain necessary sympathy.
Such a mode, therefore, of divination as this
,is entire1y different from the divine and true
mode, being alone able to predict respecting
small and diurnal concerns, viz. respecting such
as being placed in a divided nature, are borne
Digitized by Google
279
along about generation. and which impart mo-
tions from themselves to those things that are
able to receive them, and produce multiform
passions in things which are naturally adapted
to be copassive. Perfect foreknowledge, how-
ever, can never he effected t~rough passion.
· For that which is itself especially immutable,
immaterial, and entirely pttre, is accustomed
to apprehend the future; but that which is
mingled with the most irrational and dark
nature of a corporeal-formed and material
essence is filJed with abundant ignorance. All
artificial apparatus, therefore, of this kind does
not deserve to be called divination; nor is it
proper to bestow much attention upon· it, nor
to believe in any other person who uses it, as
if it possessed in itself a certain clear and
known indication of truth. And thus modt
concerning divination of this kind.
CHAP. V.
LET us, therefore, now discuss another species
of doubts, the cause of which is occult, and
which, as you say, is accompanied with " ·
Vio-
lent threats." But it is variously divided about
the multitude of threats. '' For it tkreatelt6
either to btwst the lieavens,' or to uin/ohl tlie
Digitized by Google
280
secrets ef Ins, or to point out tlte <1rcan•m· in
tlie adytum•, or to stop Baris, or to •c.atter tlie
members of Osiris to Typhon, or to do something
else of tlie like kind." Men do not,·how·
ever,
as you think, threaten by such words as these
the sun or the moon, or any of the celestial
Gods; for if they did, more dire absurdities
would ensue than those which you lament.
But, as we before observed, there is a certain
genus of powers in the world which is partible,
inconsiderate, and most irrational, and which.
receives reason from another, and is obedient
to it ; neither itself employing a proper intelli-
gence, nor distinguishing what is true ·and
false, or what is possible or impossible. A genus,
.therefore, of this kind, .when threatenings are
extended, is immediately ·coexcited and asto-
nished, because, as it appears to me, it is natu-
rally a_
dapted to be led by representations, and
to allure other things, through an astounded
and unstable phantasy.
• The conjecture of Gale, that for if To Ell A/3vo'I in this
place, we should read q TO Ell aovr'I, is, I have no doubt,
right. For the highest order of intclligibles is denominated
by Orpheus t/ae adytu11i, as we are informed by Proclus in
Tim. By the arc11Dum in the adytu114 therefore, is meant
the deity who subsists .at the extremity of the intelligible
order (i.e. Phanes); and of whom it is said in the Chaldean
Oracles," that he rem.ains in the paternal profundity, and in
- ~ adytuw, near to the god-w>uri:shed silence."
,.
281
CHAP. VI.
. THESE tbings also admit of another explanation
of the following kind. The theurgist, ·through
the· power of arcane signatures, commands
mundane natures, no longer as man, nor as
employing a human soul; but as existing supe-
rfor to them in the order of the Gods, he makes
use of ·greater mandates than pertain to him-
self, so far as he is human. This, however,
.does not take .place as if he effected .every
thing which he vehemently threatens to accom-
plish; but he teaches us by such , a use of
words the magnitude ·and quality of the power
which he possesses through a union with the
Gods, and which he·obtains from the knowledge
of arcane symbols. This, likewise, may be
said, that .the dmmoos who are distributed ac-
cording to parts7 and who guard the parts of
the universe, pay so much attention to the
parts over which they preside, that they cannot
endure a word contrary [to the safety of these],
but they preserve the permanency of mundane
natures immutable. They preserve this per-
manency, therefore, in an unchanged condition,
because the order of the Gods remains invaria-
bly the same. Hence they cannot endure even
to hear that threatened in which the aerial aud
terrestrial dremons have their existence.
Digitized by Google
282
·CHAP. VII.
OK this thing may likewise be explained as
follows: Dremons preside with a guardian
power O'fer arcane mysteries, and this in SO
remarkable a degree, becall$e the orderly dis-
tribution of things in.the universe is primarily
contained in dremons. For the parts of the
universe remain in order, because the benefi-
cent power bf Osiris continues sacred and un-
defiled, and is not mingled with any .
opposing
error and perturbation. The life of all things
likewise remains pure and incorruptible, be-
cau8e the occult vivific beauties of the produc-
tive principles in Isis do not descend into body
which is borne along•, and is the object of
sight. But all things continue immoveable and
.perpetual, because the course of the sun is
never stopped. And all things remMn perfect
and entire, because the arcana in the adytumt
are never disclosed. Hence, in those particu.;.
Jars in which the whole of things possesses Its
safety, I mean in arcana being always preserved
occult, and in the ineffable essence of the
·Gods, never rec~iviug a contrary condition ; in
these1 terrestrial dremons cannot endure, even
* For u~ TO patvoµEvov ica1 op"'µEvov ""'µa, I read Et~ TO
'fiFpoµtvov "· T. X.
t Here too for Aj3wi'I I r.ead aovTt'·
Digitized by Google
283
in words, to hear that they subsist otherwise
than they do, or that they become profaned ;
and on this account threatening language has a
certain power when employed against them.
No one, however, threatens the Gods, nor is
such a mode of invocation addressed to them.
Hence with the Chaldeans, by whom words
used to the Gods aJone are preserved distinct
and pure, no threats are employed. ·But the
Egyptians, mingling dremoniacal words with
divine signatures, sometimes einploy threats.
You have, therefore, an answer to these doubts,
·concise indeed, but I think sufficiently free from
error.
Digitized by Google
284
SECTION VII.
CHAP. I.
THE doubts also that follow in the next place
require for tlieir solution the assistance of the
same divinely-wise Muse. But I am desirous,
previous to this, to unfold to you the pecu-
liarity of the theology of the Egyptians. for
they, imitating the nature of the uriiverse, and
the fabricative .energy of the Gods, exhibit
certain il!lages through symbols of mystic,
occult, and invisible inteHections ; just as na-
ture, after a certain manner, expresses invisible
reasons [or productive powers] through visible
forms. But the fabricative energy of the Gods
delineates the truth of forms, through visible
images. Hence the Egyptians, perceiving that
all superior .natures rejoice in the similitude to
them of inferior beings, and thus wishing to
fill the latter with goo<l, through the greatest
possible imitation of the former, very properly
exhibit a mode of theologizing adapted to the
mystic doctrine concealed in the symbols.
Digitized by Google
·.
285·
CHAP. II.
HEAR, therefore, the intellectual interpretation
of symbols, according to the conceptions of the
Egyptians; at the same time removing from
your imagination and your.ears the image of
things symbolical, hut elevating yourself to in-
tellectual truth. By "mire," therefo~e, under-
stand every thing corporeal-formed· and mate-
rial; or that which is nutritive and proJific; or
such as the material species of nature is, which
is borne along in conjunction with the unstable
flux of matter; or a thing of such a kind as
that whioh the river of generation receives, and
which subsides together with it; or the pri-
mordial cause of the elements, and of all the
powers distributed about the elements, and
which must be antecedently conceived to exist
amJogous to a foundation. Being, therefore, a
thing of this kind, the God who is the cause.of
generation, of all nature, and of all the powers
io the elements, as transcending these, and as
being immaterial,incorporeal, and supernatural,
unbegotten and impartible, wholly derived from
himself, and concealed in hims.elf,-tbis God
precedes all things, and comprehends all things
· in himself. And because, indeed, he compre-
heuds a]) things, and imparts himself to all
Digitized by Google
286
mun<lane natures, he is from these unfolded
into light. Because, however, he transcends
all things, and is by himself expanded above
them; on this account be presents himself t.o
the view as separate, exempt, elevated, and
expanded by himself above the powers and
elements in the world. The following symbol,
likewise, testifies the truth of this. For by
the God "sitting above the lot'Ull," a· transcen-
dency and strength which by no means come
into·contact with the mire, are obscurely signi-
ti.ed, and also indicate his intellectual and em-
pyrean empire. For every thing belonging to
the lotus is seen to be circular, viz. both the fonn
of the leaves and the fruit ; and circulation is
alone allied to the motion of intellect, which
energizeswith invariablesameness, in one order,
and according to one reason. But the God is
established by himself, and above a dominion
and energy of this kind, venerable and holy,
superexpanded, and abiding io himself, which
his being seated is intended to signify. When
the God, also, is ,represented as " sailing in a
sltip.•," it exhibits to· us the power which
" Conformably to this, Martianus Capella also, in lib. ii.
De Nuptiis Philo]. &c. speaking of the sun, says, " lbi
quandam navim, totius naturre cursus diversa cupiditate
moderantem, cunctAque ftammarum congestione plenissi-
mam, et beatis circumactam mercibus coospicatur. Cui
Digitized by Google
287
governs the world. As, therefore, the pilot
being separate f1·om the ship presides over the
rudder of it, thus the sun having a separate
subsistence, governs the helm of the whole
world. And as the pilot directs all things
from the stern, giving from himself a small
principle of motion to the vessel; thus, also,
by a much greater priority, the God indivisibly
imparts supernally from the fii"lilt principles
Qf nature, the primordial causes of motions.
These partic.ulars, therefore, and still more
than these, are iu.dicated by the God sailing
in a. ship.
nautal septem, germani tamen, suique similes pr1ESidebant
in prora. Praisidebat in prora felis forma depicta, leonis in
arbore, crocodili in extimo." For these animals, the cat,
the lion, and the crocodile were peculiarlysacred to the sun.
Mf.rtiaous adds, " In eadem vero rate, fona quidem lucis
aithereai,,arcanisque ftuoribus manans, in totius mundi lumina
fundebatur." i. e. " In the same ship there was a fountain
of etberial light flowing with 11rcane streams, which were
ponred into .it the IUJJJinaries of the world." Porphyry,
likewise, in his treatise De Antro Nymph. says, " that the
Egyptians placed the sun and all dremons not connected
with any thing solid· or stable, but raised on a sailing
vessel."
Digitized by Google
288
CHAP. III.
S1NcE, however, every part of the heavens,
every sign of the zodiac•, all the motion of the
heavens, every ·period of time according to
which the worJd is moved, and aJI things con-
tained in the wholes of the universe, receive
the powers which descend from the sun, some
of which are complicated with these wholes,
but others transcend a commixture with them,
the .symbolical mode of signification represents
thes~ also, indicating " tkat tke sun is diversi·
fied according to tlte si,gns of the zodiac, and
tkat every kour lte ckanges kis form." At the
same time, also, it indicates his immutable,
stable, never fai1ing, and ,at once collected
communication of good to the whole world.
But since the recipients of the impartible gift
of the God are variously affected towards it,
and receive multiform powers from the sun,
according to their peculiar motions, hence the
symbolical doctrine evinces through the multi-
tude of the gifts, that the God is one, and ex-
hibits his one power through multiform powers.
Hence, likewise, it says th~t he is one and the
'" In the original rav ("'oiov, which Gale erroneously
translates aaimalia omnia.
Digitized by Google
305,
skilled in philosophy. But Cbreremon•, and
any others who have at all discussed 'the first
causes of mundane natures, have unfolded the
last rulers of thes.e. And such as have written
concerning the planets, the zodiac, the ~eeaos,
horoscopes, ~nd wbat are called powerful and
leading planets, these have unfolded the parti-
ble djstribotions ofthe rulers. The particulars,
also,.contained in the Calendars comprehend a
certain very small part ofthe Hermaic arrange-
~-ents. And the causes of such thjngs as per-
tain to the phases or occolations of the stars,
or to the increments and decrements of the
moon,_are assigned by the Egyptians the last
of all. The Egyptians, likewise, do not say
that all things are physical. For they separate
the life of the soul and the intellectual life from
nature, not only· in the universe, but also in us.
And admitting intellect and reason to subsist
by themselves, they say that generated essepces
were thus fabricated. They likewise arrange
the Demiurgus as the primary father of things
in generation; and they acknowledge the ex-
• This is most probably the Chairemon who is said by
Porphyry, in lib; iv. De Abstinentia, " to.be.,. lover oftruth,
.,n ac<'.urate writer, and yery conversant wit). the Stoic phi-
losophy/' Toicivra f'EV .Ta icar' .A'yll'l"T',ellf w' av~pof ~'·
:\.aX118ovf .Tl icai aicp,{3ov~, .1i.<r1 Toif :Ir6l~Ol.f rpay,..artK6•·
rara 'fl1>-:o1101f>'JllaYTO$ .p.1µapTvp,p.wa~ ..·
x
Digitized by Google
aoo
istence of a :vital power, prior to.the heavens',
and 'subsisting fo the heavens. They also
establish a· pure intellect above the world, and
one impartible intellect in· the whole World,
and ·another which is· distributed ii:tto alt the
spheres. And the8e thing8 they do·not survey
by mere reason alone, but through the sacet~
dotal theurgy, they announce' that they are
:able to ascend to more elevated and universal
-essences,· and to those··that are ·established
11bove Fate, ·viz. to· God and the Demiurgus;
- neither ·employing matter, nor assuming any
ethe~-thing besides, except the observation of a
suitable time.
CHAP~ V.
Ta1s·deific and-anagogic path Hermes, indeed,
narrated, but Bitys, the prophet Of King Am-
mon•, explained it, having found it in the adyta
of Sa'ist ·in Egypt, written in hieroglyphics;
• This was th~ ninth king in the twenty-sixth dynasty of
the Saitan k~gs.
t This city is mentioned ·by Plato in the Tbnaeus, who
represents Critias as saying " that there iS acertain region
of Egypt, ealled Delfa, abotit 'the !ium'init ~r which the
stream• ()f the1·~Nile ~ are diVided,'ind m wlrich'·tliere is a
province called Saitical." · He adds, •• 'O( this pro\'ince the
Digitized by Google
and .tfle ~~ propl;tet also delivered the name
Qf G_pd, which pervades through the whole
world•. :J}ut there _are, likewise, many othf;r
coarrang~ments of the same things ; so that
you d9 1~ot appear to me to act rightly in re-
ferring all things with the Egyptians to physi-
cal causes. For there are, according to them,
many principles and many essences; and also
supermundane powers,' which they worship
. thr~ogh sacerdotal.sanctimony. To ~e, there-
fore, ·these things appear to afford comm~
~uxiJi~ries to the solution of all the remainio~
. greatest ·city is Sais, from which also King Amasis derived
his oi:igin. The city has a presiding divinity, whose name
is, ill the Egyptian tongue, N eith, bu\ in the Greek Athena,
or Minerva." It is singular that Gale, who is not deficient
·in philology; tbo0gh but a smatterer in philosophy, should
have ~1'iHe.fl to.reptlU'k in his notes this passage,of Plato. ,
:• i~las; in MS:.Comment. in Alcibiad. cites one of the
CJuW!e;ap oracles,.which says-.
--------·'lf'o,p8µip11 q~11oµa ro ~· '11 f11rttpo1-'
' Koa,uo1r zy()f,uaico11•
. ·i -e.. " There .is a transmittiug i;iame which leaps into the iii-
finjte worlds." And in his MS. Scbolia in Cratyl. be quotes
another of these oracles, clz. ·
AU~ i<>ir 01111oµa atµ11011 .aicoiµrrr~ -i-po~a"Ji:.1yy1, .
' Ko0'µ01r t118p610'teo11, icpa1'1f'111111 ~1a 'lt'arpor tvi'IT'?jv•
. i~ e. "There is a venerable name with asleepless.revol~tion,
· leaping into the worlds through the rapid reproofs ·of' the
fl@er."
• x2
Digitized by Google
808
·inqumes. But since it is necessary not to
leave any one of them uninvestigated, we shall
·add them to these problems, and examine them
on all sides, in order that we may see where
there is any thing futile in your opinions.
CHAP. VI.
·You say, therefore, "that according to~ of
the Egyptians, that whici is in our pOUJer de-
pends on tke motion of the stars." What the
truth, however, is respecting this, it is neces-
sary to unfold to you from the Hermaic con-
ceptions. For man, as these writings say, has
two souls. And one, indeed, is derived from
the first intelligible,. and participates of the
power of the Demiurgus; but the other is im-
parted.from the circulation of the celestial bo-
dies, to which the soul that sees God returns.
These things, therefore, th.us subsisting, the
soul that descends to us from the worlds fol-
lows the periods of the worlds ; but that which
is intelligibly present from the intelligible>
transcends the genesiurgic motion, and through
this a liberation from fate, and the ascent to
the intelligible Gods, are e.ffected. ·Such the-
.urgy, likewise, as leads to an qnbegotten nature
.is perfected conformably to a life of this kind.
•
Digitized by Google
309-.
. I
CHAP. VII. · . •·
HENCE that of :which you are. dubious:is ~p't
tr~e, ." t/µJ.t all .t.kings ar~ bound wit/, J~ i1';
(liuollli>le bon.ds .of.Necessj,t!J,"· which we .~
Fate. For the soul has a proper principle of
.circumduction to the intelligible, and of a sepa-
ration from generated nature~ ; and also of ~
·contact with real being, a~d , that .which is diT
vine. ·" Nor ~~l we,ascri~./ate to.t4e Gqds,
w/aom we worship in temples. a1Ul stat:ues,..as the
dissolvers of/ate." For the Gods, indeed, dis-
solve fate; but the last mrtures which proceed
from them, and are complicated with the gene-
. ration of the· world ·and:with ''body, give com-
pletion to fate. Hence .we very p.roperly ;W:OJi:-
sbip ·the ;Gods with all ·possible ·sanctity, aod
·the observance of all religioas: rit~ in·;order
tltat . ~hey may liberate··us'. from the·e¥ils im~
pending from fate, as they alone rule over
.necessity tbro~gh intellectwtl,..p~rs.ua8.iqn. : But
'neither aTe all things comprehended• in .the
'nature of fate, but there is another principle' o.f
,the soul, which 'is superior to ail nature' ~n~
•generation, and through "'.hich .we are cap&.ble
of being united .to the Gods~ of transcendin~
. j • : ~
. .
•· For .txfrai. in.this place, I read .
11'EfJIE}(tra1• .
\
Digitized by Google
310
the mundane order, and of participating eternal
life, and the energy of the,supercelestial Gods.
Through this principle, therefore, we are able
to liberate ourselves from fate. For :when the
more-'·exeellent·parts of us ..energize; and the
~oul is elevated to natures better than·itselfilt,
. .
then it is entirely ·separated from things which
detain . if in generation; departs ·from subor-
dinate natures; exchanges the present for an~
tither lire, and gives -itself to another ·order of
things, entirely ,abandoning the former otder
~th which it was connected.- . ··• · ··· ..·:·
• ' \, '\'. \ I
; ., "" ·; ". ' I : -...=i~= ' . : ; ~ I • '
...
• j , · · ' '
,CHAP. VIII.
• t•• • •
.. I ,.
WHAT · th~n, ; i~ it not possible. for a . man to
liberate.himself [fr.om tate] .through ·the .Gods
tll&t revoJve;indi~·. heavens, -and to. consider
the same as the'.leaders 'of'fate, an~ yet 88
!. . ; .' .l
. ; ·• •Gale;.in his '.translatiolf of.,tbis part, b9s entirely uDi-
tabruthe meabiugiOf·Jamblicho,, wfdcll .h~ '""1e'1'1..t d9f!.8
·in, other.places•.·. E'erthe wotds of Iamblichu ate, orcu• 1.
ap
~'1 r~ {?JEX~io~a,·T;,,~ E~ 'lf"V E~EPY1J• .Kai 7rpoc. ra Kpm-Tova
avayE'rai avr~c,; i/lvx,, ;_·and the ver~i.on of Gale is," qo8.ttdo
·eni'ni.pei's ne&trt melior operari incipiat, et ad.8lli pol!tion~
meJ,l9reP\ r~~g!WJ~ 8JUqi•." For ra y~~mn•a. ia ; q~ 1)ie
better part of the soul: but when the better parts'of the soul
energize, the soul is then intimatel,r converted to itself, and
through 'this conversion is elevated to superior natures.
Digitized by Google
311
- '•
those Jl,iat ;bi&d, ow.JivtiS .with . i~qissoJµl~J~
.bond~? .,P~haps notbir~g .prevents this.,frop}
_bcl~ the C3$e. .For,if.the Gods comp.r:ehencJ
in .
themselves .many e~seoces and powers, there
are also in.them other immense dHference~. ~Q
c.ontrarie~ie~. Moreover, this also Qlay he said,
that in e.acb of the God~, .t~Qugh such .~s
~r~ visible~ there are certain in~elligible prin~i­
ple~ .through. which a Jib~ratio~ to .souis, from
,n,~nd!lne generation is eft;ected. Bu·t if .s~..m:e
90~ l~v~ Daly tw~ :g~~era o~ Gods~ w,.z. _
tpe
mundane..and..s~per1nun~~ne, the liberation.to
~ouls will·be .effected. tbro.ugh the s1.1pei:mu~:
dane Gods. These tpings, therefore, are ;mor.~
accurately discussed in our treatise Ccnicerning
tke Gods, in which it is shown who are the ana-
gogic Gods, and according to what ki~d of
powers they are so ; how they liberate from
fate, and through what sacred regressions; and
what the order is of mundane nature, and how
the most perfect intellectual energy rules over -·
this. So that what you add from Homer, "that
the Gods are 'flexible," it is not holy to assert.
For the. works of the sacred ceremonies of re-
ligion have long since been defined by pure and
· intellectual laws. Subordinate natures, also,
are liberated through a greater. order and
power; and when we abandon inferior natures,
we ar~ transferred into a more excellent allot-
Digitized by Google
312
ment. This, however, is not effected contrary
to any original sacred law, so as to cause the
Gods to be changed, through a sacred operation
being afterwards performed ; but from the first
divinity sent souls hither, in order that they
might again return to him. Neither, therefore,
is any mutation produced through a reascent
of this kind, nor do the descents and ascents of
souls oppose each other. For as generation
and this universe are suspended from an intel-
lectnal essence; thus, also, in the orderly dis-
tribution ofsouls, the liberation from generation
accords with the care employed by them about
generation.
Digitized by Google
313
SECTION IX.
CHAP. I.
LET us now, therefore, to the utmost of -Out
'power, endeavour to discuss the manifold doubt
concerning the peculiar dremon, and which «lso
is subject to various objections. Since, how-
ever; to speak summarily, the consideration
of the peculiar dremon is twofold, the one being
theurgic, but the other artificial ; and the one
drawing this dremondown from supernal causes~
but the other from the visible periods in gene-
ration ; and the one making no use whatever
of the calculation of nativities, but the other
meddJing with methods of this kind; and the
one worshiping this dremon in a way more
universal and supernatural, but the other p'arti-
bly conformable to nature ; this being the
case, you appear to me to have absurdly trans-
ferred a more perfect sacred operation to one
that is human, and in this to have exercised
your.inquiries.
Digitized by Google
314
CHAP. II.
IN the next place, here also you appear to me
to have cut otf only a certain small part of the
discussion concerning the peculiar dremon.
For since it is usual with those who artificially
operate about nature to invoke this dremon in
an orderly manner from the 4ecans, from the
.dispensators of influxes,.from the.signs of t~
zodiac, 'the star~~ .the sun and mOOl]~ (rOµt th~
greater, &od l.eE!ser bear, from the whole ele..
·!J,l.ents, and fronl the world, this being.the (;~se.
you do not .act ·rightly jn ~sumlng one,. aqd
that the smallest.part of all thes~, 11~~. the lprd
of the . genitQre,. and · µiaking 1qµi inq:uiries
about thl~ ,alone. Her~, lik~}Vise, agait;a fro~
one pf the tbfogs prORO.se(i to b~ C()~sidered~
yo:u.foqu,ire " kow. tke lor,d of t1te geni.t"'t:e, gip~$
tke .peC.~iar· d(.(!mon.; (Ind ,ac~or{tiM Jo .
whaJ
kiftf~ <>/ejftiµ,;,. or life, or ~~, il .desl(fm~ tQ
U$,from 4im." You ~'so speak concernis;1g tbe
_calcul~tlon .of .natiyities, ·. and. aisk . '' wket/J,er
t~re is.any reality in i.t.or nO,t;~' .and ).\kewjse
_
con<:eming the invention o( t\l~ Jor4 .of tbe
geQ.it~re, ." w.h~_tker # is impossf,,b'1e t<> .be /01(,114,
or po,sible." I~ w:bAt .respect, however, do
these things pertain to the domination of the
drem.
on? ·For it is evident that our knowledge
Digitized by Google
SJ5
ofth'e manner in·which he subsist.s, contributes·
nothing to his : essence and the ~ause, of·his
existence. ·:For in tltings whfoh.belong.to ·the
empire of nature, such as are generated in 1ihe
universe have ·:a :proper stability of,their own
essence, though .we should -
be· ignorant bow
th·ey -
are proclu~ed; · In this wiy, 'therefore;we
reply in comnUn. •to'. your c~Qulits~ · :But·direetl
ing··our atteDtion jlariicabwl!f to ·the 'wbjectS
ofyour inquiry, -
-We shaU endeavour to giva yau
solutions of them. '
.. ! . ~
'.\ j .
·.
. ' : . .,.
CHAP. IIJ.'.
' . . , ... , .
You ·•ay, therl, ·" tiat 1u is /iappg 't1Jho. Aamng
IMmed ·tke sekime of ki1 Mtndy, and: lmoUJing
Ais·proper dtftunl, ia tlatu liieratetl from fate)'
To me, _
however, you appear to assert t~
things in a way µeither consonant. 'O themselves
nor to truth. .For if our proper dmmon is
distributed to :us from the,scheme of our aa:..
tmty, and from thence we .are able to discov.er
him, how £an we be liberafAldfromfate., tbro1tglh
a..knowledge :of the.dremoit .imparted to us b.y
fate? :But i(.as you say, we:a.re·truly liberated
from neeessity through tJl.is..dremon, how is be
allotted to us by fate? . Thus, therefore; what
is •now said by you opposes what you before
Digitized by Google
anerted.; aqd is 'also discordant with truth.·
For ·the proper :da:tmon of every one.does not·
entirely accedelfr<im the.seheme·of the peculiar
nativity; .but. bis origin is more ancient. than
this_ .which.· we .shall hereafter discuss. To
which may . be .adcled, that .if the descending
dequm was to be a!Qne :surveyed from hence,
Ile ·will not be .happy who obtains the know~
~ of his ,genesiurgic dmmoo. And who
would .[willingly] receive this diemon .as his
leader to a liberation from fate, if he was given
to him for this purpose, that he might accom-
.plish the distributions of fate? Farther still,
this appears to m~ to be only a certain and the
last part ofthe tbeo1~y pertaining to this dremon ;
-~d . -that. the. .~ole theory .of .his es~eoce is
9oiitted.by.a -.etliod. of.\this·kind.· But these
things, indeed, though·they·are falsely a~m:ted,
·yet at. the .same ti0;t~ are not. utterly foreign
from the .purpo1.e. · .The doubts, however, ad~
duced by y<M,1 ·in the next place,. concerning
" the eaunaeralimi t>f tAe·c011D1M;arul .Jlie geaet/t.
lialogical 1cience;~'1 :as..they. :are inscrutable, aJe
.ootiaitteJ;Lde4.-.w.it1(aay.aaibigu.ity in the present
discuseion. ;,~Fpe:Whether these arts ar.e known;
or are;in~mprehs&ib~e, y.et,. at the same time,
the.ealux from ;the,stars:.distributes to .as .the
demqn• :whether, we know ~t or D.Qt. .But
divine div~atioo is>a~le : to ~a.ch .us concern~
Digitized by Google
' '
317
iog the stars, in a way whieh is most true,
and [when we are in possession of this] we are
not entirely in want of the enumeration of
canons, or of the divining art.
CHAP. IV.
IF, however, it be necessary, dismissing these
particulars, to speak what appears to me to be
the truth, you do not rightly infer "tluzt a know-
ledge of tkis mathematical science • cannot be
obtained, because tliere is muck dissonance con-
cerni"K it, or because Ckteremon, or some other,
Aas written against it." For if this reason
were admitted, all things will be incompre-
hensible. . For all sciences have ten thousand
controvertists, and the doubts with which they
are attended are innumerable. AR, therefore,
we are accustomed to say in opposition to the
contentious, that contraries in things that are
true are naturally discordant, and that it is not
falsities alone that are hostile to each other;
thus, also, we say respecting this mathematica_
l
science, that it is indeed true ; but that those
who wander from the scope of it, being ignorant
of the truth, contradict it. This, however,
• Viz. The scieace of calculating nativitie11.
Digitized by Google
happens oot: in·this science alOJi~ but likewise
·in.all the.sciences, which ar~ imparted by the
.Gods to m.
en.. For time· always . proceeding
the divine mode of knowledge becomes evan-
escent, through being frequently mingled and
contaminated with much of what is mortal.
This divine mode is indeed [in astrology also],
and a certain clear indication of truth, though
·it iS but small~ is.at the same time preserved in
it. For it places before our eyes manifest
signs of the mensuration of the divine periods,
when it predicts the eclipses of the sun and
.moon, and the concursions• of the moon with
the fixed stars, and when the experience of the
:sight is seen .to accord with the prediction.
·Moreover, tke observations oftile celutial 'bodies
'llwm1gh the wlwle of timet, 'both by tlu C/uJl-
deans and by u, tutif!J tkat tnis acie.ce is ttw.
.Indications, also, more known than these might
be adduced, if the present discussion was
precedaneously about these particulars. But
• i. e. The joint risings and aettiaga•
.
t i. e. Tb.rough a period of 300,000 years ; and P-:ocl. ~
Tim. lib. iv. p. 27'7, informs 118 that the Chaldeans had obser-
vations of the stars which embraced whole mundane periods.
What Proclus likewise asserts of the Chaldeans is confirmed
by Cicero in his first book on Divination, who says that they
had records of the stars for the space of 370,000 years; and
by Diodorus Siculus, Bihl. lib. xi. p. 118, who says that their
observations comprehended tlie space of 473,000 years.
Digitized by Google
319
as they am superfluous, and do ·not pertain to
·the knowledge of the peculiar·dremon, I shall,
as'it is fit so to do,•omit 'them, and pass on to
things more appro1>riate than these.
CHAP. V.
You say then, in your epistle, " th.at tke dis-
covery of the lord or lords of t/1£ getait•re, if
there Me more tkan tme in a nativity, ClllR scarcely
be obtained, and by astrologera themselves is co.
fessed to be ?Jnattainable; and yet tkey say t/ust
tke peculiar damwn is from thence t~ be knowtt,."
But how can astrologers confess that the know;.
ledge of the lord of the geniture is not to be
obtained by them, 1Vheo they delh1er clear
m~thods for the discovery of it, and teach us
rules by which we may discover the doubts;
some, indeed, giving us five•, others more and
others less than five rules ? Omitting this,
ho,wever, let us direct our attention·to a thing
of greater consequence, viz. the accidents per-
• "We say," says Hephestion, "that a star is the lord of
the geniture, which has five conditions of the lord of the
nativity in the horoscope ; viz. if that star recefves the lumi-
naries in their proper boundaries, in their proper house, in
their proper altitude, and in the proper triangle." He also
adds, .. and ifbesides it has contact, emuxion, and configura-
tion." Sec likewise Porphyry in Ptolemamm, p. 191.
Digitized by Google
320
t~ioing to both these. For if it is possible to
.discover .the lord of the geniture, the ruemoo
imparted by him will be known; hut if this
knowledge is unattainable, we shall be ignorant
of the lord of the geoiture according to this
hypothesis, and yet, nevertheless, he will have
an existence, and also the dremon imparted by
him. What therefore hinders, hut that the dis-
covery of him may he difficult through predic-
tion from the nativity, and yet through sacred
divination, or theurgy, there may be a great
abundance of scientific knowledge on this sub-
ject? In short, the dremon is not alone im-
parted by the lord of the genitnre, hut ~here
are many,other principles of it more universal•
than this. And farther still, a method of this
kind introduces a certain artificial and human
disquisition concerning the peculiar dremoo.
Hence, in these doubts of yours there is no-
-thing sane.
• According to the Egyptians every one received his
proper daimon at the hour of his birth ; nor did they ascend
any higher; in order to obtain a knowledge of it. For they
alone coDSidered the horoscope. See Porphyry apud Sto-
bieum, p. tot, and Bennes in Revolut. cap. iv.
Digitized by Google
32{
.CHAP. VI.
:1
..
• J
b, however, it he requisite to unfold to you the
truth concerning the peculiar dremon, we must
say that he is not distributed to us from one
part of 'the heavens, or from 'some one of the
visible ; elements ; ·buf ·that from the who~
world, the aU· various life contained in it,- and
the all. various body ithrough which the soet
descends ibto generaiion, a certaifi peciiliat
portion is distributed to each· of the parts il\
us; .according to1 a ·peenliar pr~fectut'e~ i ·mis
dmman, therefore~is'establisbedioitbe paliid~
brefure the soul dl3scentts i.ito ·genera.tMjo:; ·and
when the·sool has received him as its:; l~ad~1'
the diremon immediately presides ··over'. the
"ul, gives completion to its lives, and binds it
fA>,body whenit descends. He lik-ewise governs
the. common .animal of the soul, directs ·its .
peovliar life, and imparts 'to us 'the principles
of.all ·our thoughts and rea8onings. ·we· also
perform such things as besuggests to our intel·
lect, and' he centinues to govern us till, through
sacerdotal theurgy, we obtain a God for the in-
spective guardian and leader of the soul. For
then. the dremon ·either yields or delivers· his
government to a more excellent nature,:or i~
y
Digitized by Google
subjected to him, as contributing to bis guar-
dianship, or in sor~e other way ·is ministrant to
him as to his lord: ' · ·
CHAP. VII.
.FaoM these things, therefore, it is .easy to
answer yom·.next qu~~ion. For the peculiar
~mQn. does aot rule (tver one of the parts in
-
µs. ·hut, ia slwrt over all the parts at once, and
~"t'nd~ .to ~ver,y principle .within us, in die
jl8Jlle tD~HJ(ff QB he Was distributed to US from
the..total .~f®rs .in the 1111hr,ne. For that
wbjch it appe.ars .tQ.yoo. proper io add as an ifi,.
dic'1tiOn ~· tlwt dflm0f&8 ,_.eside voer llie parts qt.
our 'iHHlJJ, so l/ud -~ is ti~ K-'11tanliQflt of kaltlt,
am>tAer oftile j"wni ofl'M iod11_, ufUl anotitt f#.{
the corporeal ~bits. and llW there is oae _
dtna•
U1ilo presides Uri com'll'lf(m ove~· all tlteu ;" this you
should consjder as an argument that then is
one dmmon who; is the guardian and governor
of every thing that is in us. YC)u must no~
therefore, <Jistribu~ ooe demwJl ta the body,
but another to the soul, and another ti> in·
tellect: for it is absurd that t.he animal sboul<J
L>e oue, hut the d;emoo that presidei Q:Vtt it
multiform. For every where the- natures that
323
i
govern are more simple than the natures that
are governed. And it will be still more absurd
if the many demons that rule over the parts
are ·not connasceot, bat aeparated from each
other. But you· also make contrariety among
them. For yeu ·"peak as if" some oftllem wer~
good, but others iad." Evil dmmons, however,
have no where a.ruling allotment, nor are they
oppositely divided to such as are good with
equ'al authority and power.
(
I •
CHAP. VIII.
AFTERWARDS, abandoning tbese particulars.
you pass on to the opinion of philosophy. But
y0ti· subvert the whole hypothesis concerning
the peculiar demon. For if [as you say] "this
dMntm is fl part of tire sO'Ul," such, for instance,
as the intellectual part, " and he is ham wlw
is in posaessi011, ef" wise intellect," there wiJl no
longer be any other more excellent or da!moni-
~al order, presiding over, as transcending the
human soul. . But certain pai·ts of the soul, or
a certain divided power, will have dominion
over many of the Jorms of life that are in us;
and will rule over .these, not coon~cently, but
as naturally exempt, and as trall8CencJing the
whole of onr,c0mpositiou.
Digitized by Google
32•
.CHAP. IX~·
.,.
.. I•·. ' I • ' '.
A F'l'Elt this, lhereb>re, )'*ii alto meo•n another.
disquisitioo..cGacerning. the. pec~liar · d;emoa,.
which.represe11ts "some a ~. two, bid
<>tluFS l/.ree~ -~ · of this kffld." The whele.
of this,. howev.er,. is era:oneous. .For it ·is. a
false mode of preceedieg.to diYide the ca~
that preside over us, .a~ not .refer them .to·
one ; since this wanders from the union which
bas dominion over all things. The opinion,
likewi8e, which distributes this dremon into
body, and thegovemment ofbOdy,drawsdown
his domination to a certain most minute part.
So that. what necessity is there for those _
who.
embrace thi8 opinion to direct their attention.
to sacred operations, 'the first principle of them
being futile?. There is, therefore, of each· of.
us one p~liar presiding dremon ; but it is not.
proper to think that this dmmon is common to
all men; nor again, that he is common, but is:
peculiarly pr6Sent with each individual.. For.
div~ion, according to species and difference·of
matter, do not receive the communion ,aad
• sameness . of things essentially .incorporeal.
·~ Why tken [you say] is the .penili,tJr ~ i•.
voked by a cemmon·mode by all _,. ?" Because.
the invocation of him is effect.eel ,tbfough one.
Digitized by Google
God, who· is· the .ford of dremons ; who from
the first .de&ned· to every one his peculiar
d~mon ; and iwho, in sacred operatfons, unfoldM
to mety ~ne :his proper damum, acc01'dtng .to
hi8:;own proper_will. Ftir oah\'ays in thei !De.:
urgic •ordet' secondary are ihvoked throtigii
primary natures. · Among dremons~ ·therefore,
one common leader of the cosrrlocrators about
gE!oeration sends- tO eac'1 ;of· us ·his peeuliar
demon. ,llence, when thie: pectdiar dremon is
present :with each of' ·us, he ihet\ unfolds thE!
worship which is proper to be paid to him and
bis name, and likewise delivers the proper
mode of invoking him.
CHAP. X.
AND this order is adapted to dremons; one
part of it being allied to those that are invoked ;
another being derived from more ancient causes;
and the third part effecting a coo;1mon com-
pletion from both the others. Do not, there-
fore, assimilate divine invocations to such as
are human, nor those that are Ineffable to those
that are effable ; nor compare those that are
prior to every boundary, and every indefinite
mode, to those that are defined by men, or to
indefinite actions. For our concerns hav~ no-
Digitized by Google
thing hi common with ·theirs,.· wboMi whole
genus and whole order transcend and govern
· the whole ofQur essence and nature. But here.
especially, the great.est e~ . lMt.ppea to men,
when f~om human imbeciliiy .they infer any
. I
thing. concerniog th& d()minatiQQ qi·dam\ODs,
and frOD) things which are s01alJ, of _.o worth~
and distributed into parts, .form a ~onjecture of
great, excellent. and perfect natures. And thua
much .in-answer to you concerning t~epeculiar
· .d~~ in acidition :to what ba8 .~ befo.-e
said. ·'
' .
Digitized by Google
Si?
SECTION X.
CHAP. I.
IT now remains, in the last place, t.hat we
should speak eonceming felicity, about which
yon make various inquiries, first of all propos-
ing objectioos, afterwards doubting, and then
interrogating. Adducing, therefore, all that is
said by you, we shall answer it appropriately.
You inquire, then, " wlietlter there is not some
other latent wa9 tofelicil9." But how, in that
path which recedes from the Gods, is it proba-
ble there can be an ascent to felicity? For if
the essence and perfection of all good are com-
prehended in the Gods, and the first a1id an-
cfent power of them is with us priests, and if
by those who similarly adhere to· more excel-
lent .natures, and genuinely obtain . a union
witJi them, the begioniog and end of an g-0od
is earnestly pursued ; if this he the case, here
the contemplation of truth, and th<> pO!i!l'lession
Digitized by Google
328
of intellectual science are ,to be found•. And
, a knowledge of the Gods is accompanied with
a conversion to, and the knowledge of, our-
selves.
CHAP. II.
HENCE you io vain doubt, " that at is 1Wt proper
to look to human dpimons.'' ·. For what leisure
~an be ha~e wbose intellect is directed to the
Gods .to loo~ downward to the praises of men?
Nor do ~ou righdy doubtjn what follows, viz.
" tluzt t{ie soul. devises great things frO'(n cq,st«Jl
cfrcU-.s~a.~es." For what priaciple ~f fic~cms
can ,th~re be in truly existiog be~ogs.? .bjt1not
the pbantastic power in us which is.tb·~ . rpaker
of ir;uages? , Bui tie.,pka11t~ is never .~
when tie intelle4;1wd. life energiz~ '. perje¢9.
And .is ~ot truth essentially COftX~te~t ·~jth
the Gods? Is it not, likewise, ~oncQrdan~ly
establish~d in in~elligibles? It is ip·~~ia,, there-
fore, that things ·of.. this ki.nd ~e ~~~emioated
by ·you and , other&. JSu.t.: n.e~t~~r 'do ·tho~e
* In the Otiginal EVTa~8a C>/ .011,; IC~t .? T'l~ ~A;/8EtQt; 'tf«,PE'H
8ea, ""' , r~ v~pitt: E'tft-r11µ.11t;.' · ·BUt instead of .,, r11t; i votpar
w&~'l/l'l~ which appears to ~ to lae def~tive, !read 'I
KT'111tt; T'lt; vp,ipat; "'~'lf.''lt;·
Digitized by Google ,J
819
things .for which .~ertain. : futile ,and.; arrop.9'
~ calu.mniate'. .t~..w,onbipers .of die; God•,
the..liik,e-w wl-ich .i.ve- ~. •serted by you;
~t aJl .pert.;Ji-. ~ · trte theology .$nd the'Ugl'..
And.if cer~in . tl\iugs '.of.this kind germinate in
the: sciences ofdivin.e concerns; as in-otbei; arUt
evil arts, blossom M>r.th ; ,these are doobtlees
inore contr.-y··to ·S~h sci~oees than tA> any
•hing else.. ·. F..- •evil .is ·tnore ~.aile .to .good.
thfm.ro that w;llich is.uot good.
'CHAP. III.
I WUIH, in the next place,, to reply to such
assertions as c~IWD~ia~ divine predicti~. , FOJ
you..compare. with it " certain ot'Mr:·metiotU:
wiicli ._
are conversant with ti~ ·pre"""'- ef
.future events." . To ~• .i.>wever, it does not
appear to be any thing honourable if a certain
natural aptitude is ingenerated in us to the in-
dication of the future, just as in animals there
is a foreknowledge of earthquakes, or winds,
or tempests. For ,an innate presage of this
kind is the con~quence of acutf3Dess of sensa-
tion, or sympathy, ~r some oth~r conjQint
ipc;>~iori · of the phy&ical powers, aud .is ~ot
att~ded with.3i'JY tping .v.eoerable.and .super-
l)atu.~al. N9r if,some one, by1ht.•man reasoning~
Digitized by Google
330
&r artikial-obsenatioli, conjectares from •s
tliole;·thiugs of wbieta tit" sips- ate mtfieame
(u physicians •~tnow · th~t a lever will take
place vom the $f8toleand torpor of-the pulse),
neither d&ea he appear to me ·to pessees any
thing. llonot.lrable and· good. For he conjec..
tares after .& haman tnanaer, and concludes
.... oor reasoning1power about things·whicli
.are acknowledged .to be effected aatvraUy. and
forms a judgment not •ery remote A-om the
corporeal-formed order. Hence, if there is iu
us a certain natural presentiment of the future,
in the same manner ,
as in all other animals, this
power is clearly seen to .energize; this pre-
sentiment does not in reality possess any thing
which is 1D1>St blessed.· For what is there
among the things which are implanted in· ·us
by nature in the- realms of generation tflat is·Ii
genuine, perfect, and eternal good r
CHAP. IV:.
DIVINE divination, thettfore, which is' con-
joined with the Gods, alone truly imparts to
us a divine life; since it participates of[divine)
foreknowledge, and di•ine intellections, and
renders us in reality diYine. .Itlikewise causes
us to be gf'!tuioe participants of tie good, be-
Digitized by Google
S!ll
cause the most' blessed intellectual perception
of the Gods is filled wiUi all good. Hence
those who possess this divination " do not," as
you conjecture, " j<Yres~ f'llture tvenls, and m"e
'MOertheless tt'ltluzPP!J.1' For>all divine,foreknow•
ledge is boniform. Nor " do· tltey fm-esee, in..
deed, wkat is future, '/mt do not know kofJ!J· to
'ltSt· tliis knowledge properl9." For, together
with the foreknowledge, they receive the beau.1
tifol itself, and·true and. appropriate order : and
utility is also present with it. For the 'Gods,
in conjunction with it, deliver a transcendent
power of defenee against the inconveniences
which accede from nature. And when it is
necessary to exercise 'rirtue, .and the ignorance
of fnture events contributes to this~ then the
Gods ·conceal what ·will be for the sake of Ten-
dering the soul better. ·But when ·the ign~
:ranee of 'what is future does ' not at .an icon-
tribute to ·this, and. foreknowledge is ad•aD-
tageous t& soul&, fOr the sake·oftheir salYatioll
and reascent [to diYinity], .then the Gods insert
the rorekliowJedge which pertains to difination
in the penetralfa of·the·essences of souls.
Digitized by Google
I 1 • ' 'i ' . '
CHAP. V.
BvT.why am.I prolix.about these.particulars?
For.I have ~1,1c;l;pit1y shown, in·what has heeo
before said, the trapecendency of. div~e above
h~n~a.n divlp~tion. . -It is better, ~erefore, in.
colfl~iaµc.e .with your request,· "to·poiM O'Nl
toy<>U the Wf1.!1 tofdici,l!/, tJ1lll dt.!w !JOf1- in wltat,,
~he .&~e of it is placed.'' For fram this :the.
~rnth will be discovered, .and at the• $31be time
all the doubts may bereasily dissolved. I say,
therefore, that the more divine• intelligible
man, who was formerly united to the Gods· by
the vision of:tbem, afte,rwardil:eeter.ed ·into an-
0,thet. $~UJ, WIJicJi ,is .coadapted .to .tlie human,
fQr«i,·.and thrQugh this became.fett.,:fred witb·the
'hon<ls ofnece$~ty and fate: H~e it is r.equi-
s1te t~ conwc\el how .he may be •ibtl.J:.&~ ft;om
~bonds. Titer~ is, t4ef"ejpre, ~ IJl/ier, d'6solu-
tjot,,.ojtAew& thc1t {Ae,kn<>tl;ledgt o.f.tlle Gods. For.
~·.know scientifically lie ·good is:the idea o(
felicity ; ·just as the oblivion of good, and de-
ception about evil; .happen to be .the idea oi.
evil. The former, therefore, is present with
divinity ; but the latter, which is an inferior
destiny, is inseparable from the mortal nature.
' ,.
Digitized by Google
838
And the.funner, indeed, .measures the essen~f.
of.i11telligibles~. by saered ways; but the \at~r~
abandoning "principles, .gives itself up to the
measurement of the idea ofbody. The.;former
is a knowledge of the father; but the latter is
a departure from him, and an oblivion of the
God who is a· superes$entia1 father, and suffi-
cient to himself. The former, likewise, pre-.
serves the true ·life of the soul, and leads it
back to its father; but the latter draws dowtl
the generation-roJiogt man, as far as io that
which is never permanent, but is always flow•
iog. You must understand,· therefore, :that
this is the first path to felicity, affording to·
souls an intellectual plenitude of divine \iniooi
But the sacetdotal•and theurgic gift ·of fellcit,;
is.ealled; indeed, the .gate··to .the Demiurgus·
of wholes, or the ·seat, or ·palace, of tie 'good.:
lo the first place; likewise, it possesses: a-power.
of purifying the soul, much ·more peYfect than.'.
the. power .which purifies the body;· afterJ
war~s it: causes a coaptation of the. reasonins
power to ·the participation and ·vision of·tluJ:
. .
..... I '.
• In the original, by a ..irauge mi.stake, T6111 811r,ru11 is.in~
serted here instead of Tt.111 v01JTt.111, which is obviously the
true'reading. The version of Gale also has inteUagibilium:
t i.·e. Man, considered as a rational soul, connected with
the irrational life; for this man bas dominion in the realms
ofgeneration. .
Digitized by Google
184
g"4,.-aed :a liberation.from eTeq diiog of a
C01Jtruy.nature ; .aacl, ·.in .th~ ·laal place, pro.
duces1a union with the Gods. :woo ar& the
pers of every good•
·: .·.
CHAP. VI.
Jrloasovaa, after it bas conjoi11ed the soul to
$he 1everal parts of the universe, and to the
'°tal divine powers which ~s through it;
then· it leads the soul to, and deposits .it in,
•4'whole Demiurgus, and c~ses it to·be in-
dependent of .all maUer, and to be counited
wiih the eternal reast>n alooe. But lbJ mean-
iJig.is, that it p~uliarly ~ooneets the soul with
the eelf..begott~ and self-moved God, ~nd ' with
tl.e:all~taining; i-&teUectual, and all-adotning
powers of the God, and likew~ with .tb•t
~weri of t.im which elevates to truth, and with
bi@. self-perfect, eWective. and· other demiurgic
po.wen; so that the theargic iOul becomes per-
fectly established in.the enetgietf and demiurgic
intellections of these powers. Then, also, it
iosert& the soul in the whole demiurgic God.
And this is the end with the Egyptians of the
sacerdotal elevation of the 80ul to divinity.
Digitized by Google
•
386
CHAP. VII.
WITH respect to the good, likewise, tlt.ey COii"!'
ceiye that one kind is divine, and this (s. the
God who i& prior to the intelligible; but. that
the other is humao, aed is a union with the
former. "Aud these two kinds of good Bitys
has unfolded from the Hermaic books.. This
part, therefore, is not, as you IQBpect, omitte4
by the Egyptiau.s, but is divinely_ delivered b1
tllem. Nor do " tJ.eurguu disltlrl> ·t'lae diWM
i»teUect ab9'tt trifling coneema;" bot they cont
suit it about things which pertain to ~e puriD+
cation, liberation, and salvation of the soul.,
Neithe1· do they studiously employ themselves
in things which are indeed difficult, yet useless
to mankind; but, on the contrary, they direct
their attention to things which are of all others
most beneficial to the soul. Nor, in the last
place, are " tltey deceived lfg a certain fraudx-
lent dtl!mon," who, having vanquished a falla-
cious and d~moniacal nature, ascend to au in-
telligible and divine essence.
.L
Digitized by Googk
336
CHA:P. VIII.
AND thut!! .we·have answered, to the utmost of
our ability, your inquiries cionceming divination
.tmd theurgy. It remains, therefore, at the·end
of this discussion, that I ·Should beseech the
G.ods to afford me an immutable guard of true
ci>rreeptions, to insert in me truth eternally, and
to supply me abuodautly with the participation
Qf more perfect ·cooceptioris ·f1f ·the Gods; in
which the most blessed end of our good is
posited, and the confirmation ofeur concordant
frien~ship with each other; ·· .· · ,,· ·
' ' ' · · · I •
..~ .
' ~ .>
,,
. ~ . . .. . . .'
Digitized by Google
ADDITIONAL NOTES.
PAGB 9. Anebo. Porphyry in his I,ife of Plotinus, and
also in the second book of his Treatise on Abstinence from
.A.Jiimals, informs us that he was familiar with a certain
Egyptian priest, who, as Gale conjectures, is probably the
priest to whom Porphyry now writes. The diction, indeed,
as Gale obsenes, denotes that the person to whom this
Epistle is addressed was a very great prophet, who, never·
theless, is afterwards said to be a priest. This, however, is
not any thing novel or incongruous. For by Apuleius in
Metamorph. lib. :xi. the Egyptian Zaclas is said to be pro-
pheta primari'UI et aacerdo1, a chief prophet aad priat.
Page 9. Herwu!I the God who pruidu over lanrage.
The Egyptians celebrated two Hermes, the former of which
is here signified by lamblichus. This deity is the source of
ixoeation, and hence he is said to be the son of Maia; be.
cause 1earck, which is implied by Maia, leads inve11tion into
light. He bestows too mathem on souls, by unfolding the
will of his father Jupiter; and this he accomplishes as the
angel or messenger of Jupiter. Proclus in MS. Comment.
in Alcibiad. observes, " that this deity is the inspective
guardian of gy•nallic ezercile1 ; and hence lur7tta, or
carved statues ot Merc\lry, were placed in the Paliestrre; of
muic, and hence he is honoured as the lyrilt "'A.vpaio~ among
the celestial constellations; and of di&cipline1, because the
invention of geometry, reasoning, and discourse is referred
to this God. He presides, therefore, over every species of
erudition, leading us to an intelligible essence from this
mortal abode, governing the different herds of souls, and
dispersing the sleep and oblivion with which they are
oppressed. He is lileewist'I the supplier of recollection, the
end of which is a genuine intellectual apprehension of
divine natures." '
P. 10. The anciext pillar• of Henne.. These pillars,
according to Amm. Marcellinus, lib. xxii. were concealed
prior to the deluge in certain caverns, which were called
z
Digitized by Google
338
t111pin11;, ryringes, not far from the Egypt.Hm Thebes. The
second Hermes interpreted these pillars, and his interpreta-
tion formed many volumes, as lamblichus informs us in
Section viij. of thJS .work. These pillars are mentioned by
Laertius in his Life of Democritus; by Dio Chrysostom in
Orat. 49; by Ach~s Tatius on Aratus; and by others of
the ancient.s.
. P. 15. Tli.ere is, tl&erefore, tle good itselfwhich ii beyo•ul
esseace, aad tliere is that good whick ...Wmts according to
esseace. There are three orders of good; tiiz. that which is
imparticipable and superessential; that which is imparticipa-
ble and essential; and that which is essential and pai1ici-
pable. 0 f these, the last is such as our nature contains ; tke
good which ranks among forms is essential; and that which
is beyond essence is superessential. c;>r we say that tke
good which subsisl.8 in .us may be considered as a habit, in
consequence of subsisting in a subject ; the next to this
ranks as essence, and a part of essence, I mean the good
which ranks among forms; and the good which is beyond
~nee, is neither a habit, nor a part. With respect to the
good, also, which subsist.s according to essence, it must be
observed, that since forms are twofold, some alone distin-
guishing 'the euences of the things fashioned by form, but
()thers their perfections, the genus of essence, same and
different, and the form of animal, horse, and man, and every
thing of this kind, give distinction to essence and subjects ;
}>ut the form of the good, the beautiful, and the just, and in
like manner the form of virtue, of health, strength, and
every thing of a similar nature, are perfective of the beings
to which they belong : and of some, essence is the leader,
but of others the good. For, as Pl~to says, every thing
except the one, must necessarily participate of essence; and
whatever preserves, gives perfection to, or defends any being;
must be good. Hence, smce these two are leaders, the one
of forms which give subsistence to things, and the other of
such as are the sources of their perfection ; it is necessary
that one of these should be subordinate to the other; I mean
that the good which is•allotted ·a coordination among forms
that.are the sources of perfection, should be subordinate to
essence, which ranks among causes, whence subsistence
originates, if tlte good is being, and a certain being. For it
is either the same with, or different from, essencci, which the
Elean guest or stranger in the SophistaofPlato shows to be
I.he genus of being. And if the good iB. the saine -"·ith
Digitized by Google
4'ssence, an absurdity most ensue : for being and well-being
are not the same. But if the good is something di1ferent
from essence, it must necessarily participate of essence, in
consequence of essence being the genus of all forms. But if
genera are more ancient than forms, the good which ranks
among forms, and is posterior to their genus, will not be the
superessential good which reigns over intelligibles; but this
must be asserted of that good, under which this and every
form is arranged, which possesses being, and which is the
leader of the other genera of being.
P. 15. Bv.t the other medium, which is 81lS]>ended from the
Godl, thowgk it is far i11f.erim· to them, is that of tlamunu.
In addition to what is saJd in this work by Iambfichus con-
cerning daimons, the following information about them from
Olymfioaorus, in his MS. Scholia on the Phredo of Plato,
is wel worthy the attention of the philosophical reader:
" Since there are in the universe things which subsist
differently at different times, and since there are also natures
which are conjoined with the superessential unities, it is
necessary that there should be a certain middle genus, which
is neither immediately suspended from deity, nor subsista
differently at different times, according to better and worse,
but which is always perfect, and ·does not depart from its
proper virtue; and is immutable indeed, but is not conjoined
with the superessential [which is the characteristic of deity].
The whole of this genus is dremoniacal. There are, also,
di1ferent genera of dremon!I: for they .are placed under the
mundane Gods. The highest of these subsists according te
the oae of the Gods, and is called an unific and divine genus
of dremons. The next subsists according to the intellect
which is suspended from deity, and is called intellectual.
The third subsists according to soul, and is called rational.
The fourth, according to nature, and is denominated physi-
cal.- The fit\b according to body, which is called corporeal-
formed. ·And the sixth according to matter, and this ia
· denominated material." Olympiodorns adds, " or after
another manner it may be said, that some of these are celes-
tial, others etheria), others aerial, others aquatic,· others
terrei1trial, and others subterranean. With respect to this
division also, it is ·evident that it is derived from the parts of
the universe. But irrational dremons originate from the
aerial governors, whence, also, the Chaldean Oracle says,
'
HEptt~I' EAfl.,r11pa i:vvuv x.Oovwv Tf 1q:u ll"fP"'"·
z2
Digitized by Google
340
i.e. being the charioteet of the aerial, terreatrial, and aquatic.
dogs." Our guardian daimons, however, belong to that order
of diemons which is arranged under the Gods that preside
over the ascent and descent of. souls. For a more copious
account of dmmons see the notes on the First Alcibiades in
vol. i. of my translation of Plato.
P.'2!. One and the best 1olvtim& will be obtaiaed by ncr-
"eyiflg t/U! mode ofdimfle allotmeflt.
The manner in which divine allotments subsist is admira-
bly unfolded by Proclu.s in Tim. p. 43, as follows: " Since,
according to a division of the universe into two parts, we
have distributed allotments into the celestial and sublunary,
there can be no doubt what the former are, and whether
they-possess an invariable sameneaa of subsistence. But the
sublunary allotments are deservedly a subject of admiration,
·whether they are said to be perpetual or not. For since
all things in generation are continually changing and flowing,
bow can the allotments of the providential rulers ofthem be
said to be perpetilal1 For things in generation are not
perpetual. But if their allotments are not perpetual, how is
1t possible .to suppose that divine government can subsist
differently at different times1 For an allotment is neither a
certain separate energy of the Gods, so that sublunary
natures changing, we might say that. it is exempt, and
remains immutable, nor is it that which is governed alone,
so that no absurdity would follow from admitting that an
allotment is in a flowing condition, and is conversant with
all various mutations·: but it is a providential inspection,
and unrestrained government ofdivinity oversublunary coo-
cems. Such being the doubts with whieh this eubject is
attended, the following appears to be a solution of the diffi-
culty.
" We must say, then, that it is not proper to consider all
the natures that are in generation, and generation itself, as
alone c~osisting of things mutable and flowing, but that
there is also something immutable in these, and which is
naturally adapted to remain perpetually th~ same. For the
interval which receiYes and compreheµds in itself all the
parts of the world, and which has an arrangement through'
all bodies, is immoveab)e,1est, beingmoved, it should require
another place, and thus should proceed from one receptacle
to another. ad iajirrit11m. The etherial vehicles, also, of
divine souls, with which they are circularly invested, and
which imitate the lives in the heavens, have a perpetual
rn~itized by Google
341
-essence, and are eternally suspended from ·these divine
souls themselves, being full of prolific powers, and perform-
ing a circular motion, according to a certain secondary
revolution of the celestial orbs. And, in the third place,
the wholeness (oXor,,r) of the elements has a permanent.sub-
sistence, though the parts are all-variously corrupted. For
it is necessary that every form in the universe should be
nevel'-fililing, in order that the universe may be perfect, and ·
that, being generated from an immoveable cause, it ma] be
immoveable in its essence. But every wholeJ&e.11 is a Jorm,
or rather it is that which it is said to be through the pa1-tici-
pati01t o.fone all-perfectform. ·
" .AD.d h~re we may see the orderly progression of the
nature of bodies. For the intenal of the uqiverse is im-
moveable according ·to every kind of .motion. But the
vehicles of divine souls alone receive a mutation according to
place ; for such a motion as this is most remote from essen-
.tial mutation. And the wholeness of the elements admits
in its parts the other motions of bodies, but the whole
remains perfectly immutable. The celestial allotments also,
which proximately divide the interval of the universe, codis-
tribute likewise the heavens themselves. But these in the
aublunary region are primarily, indeed, allotted the parts
which -are in the interval of the universe, but afterwards
they make a distribution accerding to the definite vehicles
of souls. And, in the third place, they remain perpetually
the same, according to the total parts of generation. The
· allotments of the Gods, therefore, do not change, nor do
they subsist differently at different times; for they have not
their subsistence proximately in that which,may be changed.
· " How, therefore, do the illuminations of the Gods accede
to these 1 How are the dissolutions of sacred rites effected 1
And how is the same place at different times under the in-
fluence of different spirits? May it not be said, that since
the Gods have perpetual allotments, and diYide the earth
according to divine numbers, similarly to the sections of the
heavens, the parts of the earth also are illuminated, so far
as they participate of aptitude. Bot the circulation of the
heavenly bodies, through the figures which they posse,ss,
· produce this aptitude; divine illumination at the same time
imparting a power more excellent than the .nature which is
present with these parts of the earth. This aptitude is also
effected by nature herself as a whole, inserting divine im-
pressions in each of the illuminated parts, through which
they apontan60usly participate of the Gods. For as thci6
Digitized by Google
842
·parts depend OD the Gods, nature inseHs in such ofthem -
are different, different images of the divinities. Times too
cooperate in producing this aptitude, according to which
other things, also, are govemed; the proper temperature of
the air likewise; aud, in short, every thing by which we are
surrounded contributes to the increase and diminution of
this aptitude. When, therefore, conformably to a concur-
rence of these many cause$, an aptitude to the participation
of the Gods is ingenerated in some one of the natures which
are disposed to be changed, then a certain divinity is un-
folded mto light, which, prior to this, was concealed through
the inaptitude of the recipients; possessing, inde~d, bis
appropnate allotment eternally, and always ~tendmg ·the
participation of himself, similarly to illuminations from the
sun, but not being always participated by sublunary natures,
in consequence of their maptitude to such participation.
For as with respect to partial soals such as ours, which at
different times embrace different lives, some ofthem, indeed,
choose lives accommodated to their appropriate Gods, but
others foreign lives, through oblivien of the divinities to
whom they belong; thus, also, with respect to sacred places,
some are adapted to the power which there receives its
allotment, but others are ·suspended from a different order.
And on this account, as the Athenian guest in Plato says,
some places are more fortunate, but others more 11Dfor-
tunate.
" The divine lamblichus, however, doubts how the Gods
are said to be allotted certain places according to definite
, times, as, by Plato in the Timreus, Mine"a is said to have
been first allotted the guardianship of Athens, and after-
wards of Sais. For if their allotment commenced from a
certain time, it will also at a certain time cease. For every
thing which is measured by time is of this kind. And
farther still, was the place which at a certain time they are
allotted, without a presiding.deity prior to this allotment, or
was it under the government of other Gods? For if it was
without a presiding deity, how is it to be admitted that a
certain part of the universe was once entirely destitute of
. divinity1 How can any place remain without the guardian-
.ship of superior beings? And if any place is sufficient to
the preservation of itself, how does it afterwards become the
allotment of some one of the Gods 1 But if ii. should be
said, that it is afterwards 'under the government of another
God, of whom it becomes the allotment, this also is absurd.
For the second Goddoes not divulse the government and allot-
Digitized by Google
343
inent Qf the former, nor do tile GOOs altetnately occupy the
places of each other, nor diemons change their allotwents.
Such being the donbts on this subject, he solves them by
aaying, that the allotments of the Gods remain perpetually
unchanged, but that the participants of them at one time, in-
deed, enjoy the beneficent influence of the presiding powers,
but at another are deprived of it. He adds, that these are
the autatiom meanred by time, which sacred imtitutesfre-
9vently call the birthday ofthe Gods. . .
. P. 23. Whicli also the art ofdivine W<Jrks perceiving, 4-c•
This art of divine works is called theurgy, in which Pytha-
goras was iaitiated among the Syrians, as .we are informed
by lamblichus in his Life of that philosopher. (See p. 9 of
my translation of that work.) Proclus also was skilled in
this art, as may be seen in the Life of him by Marinus.
Psellus, in his MS. treatise on Dremollll, says, as we have
' before observed, " that magic formed the last part of the
sacerdotal science; in which place by magi-0 he doubtless
means that kind of it which is denominated theurgy. • And
tha.t theurgy was employed by the ancients in their myste-
ries, I have fully proved in my treatise on the Eleusinian
and Bacchic Mysteries•. This theurgy, too, is doubtless the
same as the magic of Zoroaster, which Plato in the First
Alcibiades says, consisted in the worship of the Gods; on
which passage the following.account of theurgy by Proclus
waa, I have no doubt, originally part of a commentary.
For the MS. Commentary of Proclus, which is extant on
this dialogue, does not extend to more than a third part of
it; and this Dissertation on Theurgy,. which is only extaJtt
in Latin, was published by Ficinus the translator, ioune-.
diately after his Excerpta, from this Commentary. So that
it seems highly probable that the manuscript from which
Ficinus translated his Excerpta, was much more perfect
than that which has been preserved to us, in consequence of
containing this account of the ·theurgy of the ancients.
" In the same manner ·as lovers gradually advance from
that beauty which is apparent in sensible forms, to that ·
which is divine; so the ancient priests, when they con-
sidered that there is a certain alliance and sympathy in
natural things to each other, and of things manifest to occult
powers, and discovered that all things subsist in all, tliey
• ~e the .second edition of this work io N111. XV. and XVI. of the
~ampbleteer.
Digitized by Google
344
fabricated a sacred science from this mutual sympathy and
similarity. Thus they reooguised things supreme in1luch &!'
are subordinate, and the subordinate in the supreme: in the
celestial regions, terrene properties subsisting in a causal
and celestial manner; and in earth celestial properties, but
according to a terrene condition. For how shall we account
for those plants called heliotropes, that is, attendants on the
'"l!lun, moving in correspondence with the r~volution of its
orb, but selenitropes, or attendants on the moon, turning in
exact conformity to her motion? It is because all things
pray, and hymn the leaders of their respective orders; but
some intellectually, and others rationally; some ina natural,
and others after a sensible, manner. Hence the sunflower,
as far as it is able, moves in a circular dance towards the
sun; so that if any one could hear the pulsation made by its
circuit in the air, he would perceive something composed by
a sound of this kind, in honour ofits king, such as a plant is
capable of framing. Hence, too, we may behold the SWI
and moon in the earth, but according to a terrene quality;
but . in ·the celestial regions, all plants, and stones, and
ani0)8ls, possessing an .intellectual life according to a celes-
tial nature. Now the ancients, having. contemplated tbis
mutual sympathy of things, applied for oooult purposes,
both celestial and terrene natures, by means· of which,
through a eertain similitude, they deduced divine virtuea
into this inferior abode. For, indeed, similitude itself is a
sutlicien.
t cause of binding things together in union and con-
sent. Thus, if a piece of paper is heated, and anerwards
placed near a lamp, though it does not touch the fire, the
paper will be SQddenJy inflamed, and the flame will descend
from the superior to the inferior parts. This heated paper
we may compare to a certain relation of inferiors to supe-
riors; and its approximation to the lamp, to the opportune
use of things according to time, place, and matter. Bot the
procession of fire into the paper, aptly represents the pre-
sence of divine light to that nature which is capable of it.
reception. Lastly, the inflammation of the paper may be
compared to the deification of mortals, and to the illumina-
tion of material natures, which are afterwards carried up-
wards, like the enk.indled paper, from a certain participation
of divine seed.
" Again, the lotus, before the rising of the sun, folds its
leaves into itself, but gradually expands them on its rising:
unfolding them in proportion to the sun's ascent to the
zenith! but as gradually contracting them as that luminary
Digitized by Google
346
descenas to the w~L Hence this plant, by the expanaioQ
and contraction of its leaves, appears no less to honour the
sun, than men by the gesture of their eyelids, aad the
motion of their lips. But this imitation and certain partici-
pation of supernal light is not only visible in plant.II, whieh
possess nothing more than a vestige of life, but likewise in
particular stones. Thus the sun-stone, by· its golden rays,
imitates those .of the sun; but the stone called the eye of
heaven, or of the sun, has a figure similar to the pupil of an
eye, and a ray shines from the middle of the pupil. Thus,
too, the lunar stone, which has a figure similar to the moqo
when horned, by a certain change of itself, follows the lunar
motion. Lastly, the stone called helioselenus, i.e. of the
sun and moon, imitates, after a manner, the congress of
those luminaries, which it images by its colour. So that all
things are fall ofdivine natures; terrestrial natures receiving
the plenitude of such as 'are celestial, but celestial of super-
celestial essences • ; while every order of things proceeds
gradually, in a beautiful descent, from the highest to the
lowest. For whatever particulars are collected inw one
above the order of things, are afterwards dilated in descend-
ing, various souls being distributed under their varioua
ruling divinities. .
" In the next place, there are many solar animals, S\lch
as lions and cocks, which participate, according to their
nature, of a certain solar divinity ; whence it is wonderful
how much inferiors yield to superiors in the same order,
though they do not yield in magnitude and power. Hence
it is said, that a cock is very.much feared, and, as it were,
reverenced, by a lion; the reason of which we cannot assign
from matter or sense, but from the contemplation alone of a
supernal order. For thus we shall find that the presence of
tl1e solar virtue accords more with a cock than with a lion.
This will be evident from considering that the cock, as it
were, with certain hymns, applauds and calls to the rising
sun, when be bends bis course to us from the antipodes ; and
that solar angels sometimes appear in forms of this kind,
who, though they are without shape, yet present themselves
to us, who are connected witli shape, in some sensible form.
Sometimes, too, there are dremons with a leonine front, who
when a cock is placed before them, unless they are of a
solar order, suddenly disappear; and this because those
natures · which have an interior rank in the same order
• i. e. Of natarea wb.ich an not connected with bod,r.
Digitized by Google
346
always reYerence their superiors; joat 8' m••Y, on lJebold-
ing the images of divine meo, are acc\lstomed, from the very
·Tiew, to be tearful of perpetrating any thing base. ·
· " lo fine, some things taro round correspondent to the
revolutions of the sun, as the plants which we have men-
tioned, and others after a manner imitate the solar rays, as
the palm and the date ; some the fiery nature of the sun, as
the laurel; and others a di1fereot property. For, indeed, we
may perceive that the properties which are collected in the
auo, are every where distributed to subsequent natures con-
stituted in a solar order, that is, to angels, diemons, souls.
animals, plants, and stones. Hence the authors of the
ancient priesthood discovered from things apparent the-
worship of superior powers, while they mingled some things
and purified others. They mingled many things indeed
together, because they saw that some simple substances
possessed a divine property (though not taken singly) suffi-
cient to call down that particular power, of which they were
participants. Hence, by the mingling of many things to-
gether, they attracted upon us a supernal infiux; and by the
composition of one thing from many, they produced an
assimilation to that one which is above many; and composed
statues from the mixture of various substances coospinng in
sympathy and coll8ent. Besides this, they collected compo-
site Odours, by a divine art, into ooe, comprehending a mul-
titude of po11'ers, and symbolizing with the unity of a divine
esseoee ; considering that division debilitates each of these,
but that mingling them together restores them to the idea of
their exemplar.
" But sometimes one herb, or one stone, is sufficient to a
divine operation. Thus a thistle is sufficient to prOC'ure the
sudden appearance of some superior power; but a laurel,
raccinum (or a thorny kind of sprig), the land and sea
onion, the coral, the diamond, and the jasper, operate as a
safeguard. The heart of a mole is subservient to divination,
but sulphur and marine water to purification. Hence the
ancient priest'!, by the mutual relation and sympathy of
things to each other, collected their virtues into ooe, but
expelled them by .-epugnancy and antipathy ; purifying
when it was requisite with sulphur and bitumen, and sprink-
ling with marine water. For sulphur purifies, from the
sharpness of its odour; but marine water on account of its
fiery portion. Besides this, in the worship of the Gods,
they !)ffered animals, and other substances congruous to
their nature; and received, in the first place, the powers of
Digitized by Google
ra41
umons, u proximate to natural anbetancea and operations ;
and by these natural substances they convoked into their pre-
sence those powers to which they approached. Afterwards
they proceeded from dremons to the powers and energies of
the Gods; partly, indeed, from dalmoniacal instruction, but
partly by their own industry, interpreting appropriate sym-
bols, and ascending to a proper intelligence qf the Gods. And
lastly, laying aside natural substances and their operations,
they received themselves into the communion and fellowship
of the Gods."
The Emperor Julian alludes to this thenrgical art, in the
following extract from his Arguments against the Christians,
preserved by Cyril. To yap tic 6tr.1v tir av6p611fovr a4/1iicvov-
p.tvov 'lf'VEvµa, o'lt'aviaicir µtv ·icac EV oXiyoir yn1ETac, ic1n
OVTE 'lt'avTa avopa TOVTOV µETatl')(.HV P'/OLOJI~ OVTE EJf ·'lt'aVT'
Ka'P't'· Tavry TO Kat TO 'lt'ap' E{3paioir E'lt'tXi'lt'EV, ov1eovv ovot
-rap' Acyvll'TiOir or TOVTO t161(ETac. ~aivtTac Ot 1eac Ta avTo-
tf>v11 "J(Prr;11pca Tatr T•w X.P0>'61>' uicovra 'lftpioooir. d' ot 1iiXav-
6p,,,.,,or 71µ,,,v Ottl'lf'OT71r 1eac 'lt'aT71p Ztvr tvvo71t1ar, "'" av µ71
-ravTa'lt'at1c T11f 'lrpor Tovr 6tovr a11'0'>tp71661µtv 1eoiv61vcar OE-
061KEY 71µiv Oca T61JI upr.1v TE"J(.>'611' E'lrLtlKEl}iv, vf 11f '1t'p0" Tat;
'}(PHar t(oµtv T71v a'lt'OXf'6HTav {30,,Buav. i. e. " For the in-
spiration which arrives to men from the Gods is r!ll'e, and
exists but in a few. Nor is it easy for every man to partake
of this, nor at every time. This has ceased among the
Hebrews, nor is it preserved to the present time among the
Egyptians. Spontaneous oracles, ·also, are seen to yield to
temporal periOds. This, however, our philanthropic lord
nnd father Jupiter understanding, that we might not be en-
tirely deprived of communion with the Gods, has given us
observation through sacred art•, by which we have at hand
sufficient assistance.'' For the cause why, at stated times,
.sacred arts, oracles, and inspiration fail, see the additional •
notes to my translation of Iamblichus's Life of Pythagoras.
P. 24. The participant of the ratioxal s<ml become• the
~awe of njf
ering to the comp<nite. . See my translation of
Plotinus on the Impassivity of Incorporeal Natures, in
which this is beautifully and profoundly demonstrated.
Proclus, also, in Tim. lib. v. p. 340, admirably obsenes, that
the motion of the nutritive t>ower, and the percussions of
sense, are the causes of the perturbation of the soul; but
that we must not fancy that the soul suffers any thing through
these. " For as if," says he, "some one standing on the
margin of a river should behold the image and. form of him-
·.
Digitized by Google
I
348
alf in the 8oating 1tream, he indeed will preserve his r.ce
unchanged ; but the stream, being all-variously moved, will
change the image, so that at dilferent times it will appear to
him different, oblique and erect, and perhaps divul.Sed and
continuous. Let us suppose too, that such a one, through
being unaccustomed to the spectacle, should think that it
was himself that suffered this distortion, in consequence of
surveying bis shadow in the water, and thus thinking, should
be aftlicted and disturbed, astonished and impeded. After
the same manner, the soul beholding the image of herself
in body, home along in the riYer of generation, and variously
.disposed at different times, through inward.passions and
external impulses, is indeed herself impassive, but thinks
that she suffers; and ·being ignorant of, and mistaking her
image for, herself, is disturbed, astonished, and perplexed."
P. 36. SiJ&Ce, Aotoetier, the order of all the GOO. iB pro-
f""ndly u7iited.--For the very ezistence in them, whatever
it may be, is the 6"e oftheir nature.
The Gods are self-perfect superessential unities, so far as
they are Gods. For the principal subsistence of every
thing is according to the summit of its e4sence, and this in
the Gods is the one, through which they are profoundly
united to each other and to the 07ae itself, or the ineffable
principle of things, from which they are ineffably unfeldetl
into light. Concerning this union of them with each other,
Proclus admirably observes as follows, in his MS. Com-
mentary on the Parmenides of Plato. ".All these unities
are in, and are profoundly united to, each other, and their
union is far greater than the communion and sameness which
subsist in beinga. For in the latter there is indeed a mutual
mixture of forms, similitude, and friendship, and a participa-
tion of each other; but the union of the Gods, as being a
union of unities, is much more uniform, ineffable, and
transcendent: for here all are in all, which does not take
place in forms or ideas• ; and their unmingled purity, and
the characteristic of each, in a manner far surpassing the
diversity in ideas, preserves their natures unconfused, and
distinguishes their peculiar powers. Hence, some of them
are more universal, and others more particular; some of
them are characterized by permanency, other8 by progres-
sion, and others by conversion, oi: regression. Some, again,
are generative, others anagogic, or of an elevating nature~
• For in tlteee, all are in'eae~, bat not all ia all.
Digitized by Google
349
and others deminrgic ; and universally, there are different
characteristics of different Gods, vi:. the connective, per-
fective, demiurgic, assimilative, and such others as are cele-
brated posterior to these ; so that all are in all, and yet each
is at the same time separate and distinct. .
" Indeed we obtain this knowledge of their union and
characteristics from the 11atures by which they are partici-
pated. For, with respect to the visible Gods, we $1Y that
there is one soul of the sun, and another of the earth,
directing our llttention to the visible b9dies of these divini-
ties, which posses8 much variety in their essence, powers,
and dignity among wholes. As, therefore, we apprehend
the difference of incorporeal essences from sensible inspec-
tion, in like manner from the variety of incorporeal essences,
we are enabled to know something of the unmingled dis-
tinction of the first and superessential unities, and of the
characteristics of each. For each unity has a multitude
suspended from its nature, which is e~ther intelligible alone;
or intelligible, and at the same time intellectual; or intellec-
tual alone ; and this last is either participated, or not par-
ticipated ; and this again, is either supermundane, or mun-
dane. A,nd thu& far does. the progression of the unities
extend." Shortly after he adds, " As trees by their ex-
tremities are rooted in the earth, and through this are
earthly in every part, in the same manner divine natures are
r.ooted by their summits in the one, and each is a wnity and
one, through its unconfused union with the one itself.., See
more on this most important of all subjects in the notes to
my translation of the Parmeuides.
P. 50. For as in all other things, such as are principal,
primarily begin from themseloes, 4-c.
. Hence every God begins his own energy from himself,
which Proclus thus demonstrates in Prop. 131 of his Ele-
ments of Theology. " F&r every God first exhibits the
peculiarity of his presence with secondary natures in him-
self; because he imparts himself to other things also .accord-
ing to his own exuberant plenitude. For neither is de-
ficiency adapted to the Gods, nor fulness alone. For every
thing deficient is imperfect, and not being itself perfect, it is
impossible it should make another thing to be perfect. But
that which is full is alone sufficient to itself, and is not yet
prepared to comQlunicate. It is necessary, therefore, that
the nature which fiHs other things,. and which extends. to
other things the communications of itself, should be super-
Digitized by Google
350
plenary, or exuberantly full. Hence, i(.a divine nature fills·
all things from itself with the good which it contains in
itself, it is exuberantly full. And if this be the case, estab-
lishing 6r&tin itself the peculiarity which it imparts to others,
it will extend to them the communicatiens of superplenary
goodness.
P. o9. It is requisite also to knoto what enthusia.m is,axd
lww-it ii prodw.ced.
The following account of enthusiasm, and of the different
kinds of mania mentioned by Plato in the Phredrns, from
the Soholia of Hermeas on that dialogue, is extracted from
the additional notes to my translation of Proclus on the
Timieus, and is ·given in this place for the sake of the
Platonic English reader, who may not have that translation
in his possession, as a valuable addition to what is _
here said
by lamblichu.s on this subject. '
" Since Plato here delivers four kinds of mania, by
"Which I mean enthusiasm, and possession or inspiration
from the Gods, viz. the musical, the telestic, the prophetic,
and the amatory, previous to the discussion ofeach, we most
first speak about enthusiasm, and show to what part of the
soul the enthusiastic energy pertains; whether each part of
it possesses this energy ; if all enthusiasm is from the Gods ;
and in what part of the soul it is ingenerated ; or whether it
subsists in something else more excellent than sou). Where,
then, does that which is properly and primarily called en-
thusiasm subsist, and what is it 1 orthe rational soul there
are two parts, one of which is dianoia, but the other opiniox.
Again, however, ofdianoia, one part is said to be the lowest.
and is properly dianoia, but another part of it is the highest,
which is said to be the iDtellect orit, according to which the
soul especially becomes intellectual, and which some call in-
tellect in capacity. There is also another thing above this,
which is the summit of the whole soul, and most allied to the
ou, which likewise wishes well to all things, and always
gives itself up to the.Gods, and is readily disposed to do
whatever they please. This, too, is said to be the one of the
soul, bears the image of the supert!ssential one, and unites
the whole soul. But that these thiogs necessarily thus sub-
si11t, we may learn as follows: The rational soul derives its
existence from all the causes pripr to itself, i. e. from in-
tellect and the Gods. But it subsists also from itself: for it
perfects itself. So far, therefore, as it ·subsists from the
Gods, it possesses tle 01te, which unites all its powers, aod-
..,.. G I
Digitized by oog e
351
all the multitude of itself, and conjoina ·them to the on•
itself, and is the ~rst recipient of the goods imparted by the
Gods. It likewise makes all the essence of the soul to be
boniform, according to which it is connected with the Gods,
aod united to them. But so far as it subsists from intellect
it possesses an intellectual nature, according to which it
apprehends forms, by simple projections, or intuitions, and
not discursively ; and is conjoined to the intellect which is
above itself. And so far as it constitutes itself, it possesses
the dianoetic power, according to which it generates sciences
and certain theorems, energizes discursively, and collects
conclusiQns from propositions. For that it constitutes or
gives subsistence to itself, is evident f~m its imparting per-
fection to itself; since that which·leads itself to perfection,
and imparts to itself well-being~ will much more impart to
itself existence. For well-being is a greater thiqg than
being. If, therefore, the soul imparts that which is greater
to itself, it will much more impart that which is less. Hence
that which is primarily, properly, and truly enthusiasm from
the Gods, is effected according to this one of the soul, which
is above dianoia, and above the intellect of the soul; which
one is at another time in a relaxed and dormant state. This
one, likewise, becoming illuminated [by the Gods], all the
life of the soul is illuminated, and also intellect, dianoia, and
the irrational part, and the resemblance of enthusiasm is
transmitted as far as to the body itself. ·
" Other enthusiasms, therefore, are produced about other
p!lrts of the soul•, certain dromons exciting them t, or the
Gods also, though not without the intervention of diemons.
For dianoia is said to energize enthusi,astically, when it dis-
covers sciences and theorems in a very short space of time,
and in a greater degree than other men. Opinion, like-
wise, and the phantasy, are said thlis to energize when they
discover arts, and accomplish admirable works, such, for in-
stance, as Phidias effected in the formation of statues, and
another in another art, as also Homer sayst of him who
made the belt of Hercules, ' that he neither did nor would
artificially produce such another.' Anger, likewise, is said
* By an unaccountable mistake here "'°" flt1pA'l'o; is iuserted instead or
.,.,,, 4-ux;'ls ; but the mistake is not noticed by the German editor of these
Soholia.
t And in consequence or this .mistake, for a11To in this place, we most
read &UTa.
t Odyas. xi. 612.
Digitized by Google
852
to energize enthusiastically, when in battle it energizt"s
, supernaturally.
Like Mars, when brandishing hi1 spear, he raged •,
Bu.t if some one, yielding to desire, should eat of that which
reason forbids, and through this should unexpectedly be-
come well, you may say that desire also, in this instance,
energized enthusiastically, though obscurely; so that enthu-
siasm is likewise produced about the other parts of the soul.
Enthusiasm, however, properly so called, is when this one
of the soul, which is above intellect, is excited to the Gods,
and is from thence inspired. But at different times it is
possessed about the aptitudes of itself, by different Gods;
and is more or less posses~ed when intellect or dianoia is
that which is moved. As, therefore, when we inquire what
philosophy is, we ,do not always accurately de6ne it, but
frequently, from an improper use of the word, call mathe-
matics or physics philosophy and science; we do the like
also with respect .to enthusiasm. For though it should be
the phantasy which is excited, we are accnstomed to call the
excitation enthusiasm. Moreover, those who ascribe en-
thusiasm to the temperatures ofbodies, or the excellent tem-
perament of the air, or the ascendency of exhalations, or the
aptitudes of times and places, or the agency of the bodies
that revolve in the heavens, speak rather of the cooperating
and material causes of the thing than of the .causes of it
properly so called. You have, therefore, for the producing
cause of enthusiasm, the Gods ; for the material cause, the
enthusiastically energizing soul itself, or the external sym-
bols,; for the formal cause, the insp~ation ofthe Gods about
the one of the soul; and for the 6nal cause, good.
" If, however, the Gods always wish the soul what is
good, why does not the soul always energize enthusiasti-
cally1 May we not say, that the Gods indeed always
wish the soul what is good, but they are also willing that the
order of the universe should prevail, and that the soul,
through many causes, is not always adapted to enthnsiasm, on
which account it does not always enthusiastically energize 1
But some say that the telestic art extends as far as to the
sublunary region. If, therefore, they mean that no one
of the superlunary and celestial natures energizes in the
sublunary region, they evidently assert what is absurd.
• lliad u. 605.
Digitized by Google
But if they mean'that the Telestm, or mystic operators, m·e
not able to energize above the lunar sphere, we say, that if
all the allotments of souls are sublunary, their assertion will
be true ; but if there are also allotments of souls above the
moon, as there are (for some are the attendants of the sun,
others of the moon, and others of Saturn, since the Demiur-
gns disseminated some ofthem into the earth, others into the·
moon, and others elsewhere), this being the case, it will be
possible for the soul to energize above the moon. For what·
the whole order of things imparts to the soul for a very ex-
tende4 period of time, this the soul is also able to impart to
itself for a short space of time, when assisted by the Gods
through the telestic art. For the soul can never energize
above.its own allotment, but can energize to the extent of it.
Thus, for instance, if the allotment of the soul was as far as
to philosophy, the soul would· be able, though it should not
choose a philosophic but some other life, to energize iu that
life somewhat philosophically. There are also said to be.
certain supermundane souls. And thus we have shown
how the soul energizes enthusiastically. ·
But how are statues said to have an enthusiastic energy 1
May we not say, that a statue being inanimate, does not
itselfenergize about divinity, but the telestic art, purifying
the matter of which the statue consists, and placing round it
certain characters and symbols, in the first place renders it,
through these means, animated, and causes it to receive a
certain life from the world; and, in the next place, after
this, it prepares the statue to be illuminated by a divine
nature, through \vhich it always deliv.ers oracles, as long as·
it is properly adapted. For the statue, when it has been
l't'lndered perfect by the telestic. art, remains afterwards
[endued with a prophetic power] till it becomes entirely
unadapted to divine illumination ; but he who receives the
inspiring inftuence of the Gods receives it only at certain
times, and not always. But the cause of this is, that the
soul, when filled with deity, energizes about it. Hence, in
conseciuence of energizing above its own P.ower, it becomes
weary. For it would be a God, and similar to the souls of
the stars~ jJ it did not become weary. But the statue, con-
formably to its participations, remains illuminated. Hence
the inaptitude of it entirely proceeds into privation, unless it
is again, de 1WTX>, perfected and animated by the mystic
operator. We have sufficiently shown, therefore, that en-
thusiasm, properly so called, is effected about the one of the
soul, and that it is an illumination of divinity.
AA
Digitized by Google
354
" In the nest place, let t1.1 W.c11SS the order and the uae ot
the four manias, and show why the pbiloaopher makes
mention of these alone. Is it because there are no other
than these, or because these were sufficient for his purpose 1
That there are, therefore, many other divine inapiratioqs and
manias Plato himself indicates as he proceeds, and prior to
this, he makea mention of the inspiration from the N ympba.
But there are alao inspirations from Pao, from the mother
of the Gods, and from the Corybantes, which are elsewhere
mentioned by Plato. Here, however, he alone delivers ·
these four manias; in the fint place, bdcause theae alone are
sufficient to the soul, in the attainment of its proper apecatu-
tasis, as we. shall afterwards show; and in the nest place,
because he delivers the proximate st.epa of aaoent to the
soul. For the gifts of the Gods to all beings are many and
incomprehensible. Bot now be deliven to us the energies
of the Gods which are ext.ended to souls. He deliven,
however, these four manias, not u if one of them was not
sufficient, and eseecially the amatory, to lead back the soul
to its eristine felicity ; but at present the series and regular
gradation of them, and the orderly perfection of tile soul,
are unfolded. As, therefore, it is pouible for the tyrannic
life, when suddenly changed, to become aristocratic, through
employing strenuous promptitude aod a divine allotment,
bot the gradual ascent is from a tyrannic to a democratic,
and from this to an oligarchic life, afterwards to a timocratie,
and at last to an aristocratic life, but the deacent and lapse ·
are vice versa ; thus also here, the soul being about to
ascend, and be restored to its former felicity, is in the fint
place posseased with the musical mania, afterwards with the
teleatic, then with the prophetic, and, in;_
the laat place, with
the amatory mania. 'fhese inspirations, however, conspire
with, and are in want of, each other; so abundant is their
communion. For the teleatic rettuires the prophetic• :mania;
since the lattert interprets many things pertaining to the
former. And .agam, the prophetic requires the telestic
mania. For the .telestic mania perfecta and establishes
oracullll' predictions. Farther atill, the propbe&ic uses dae
poetic and musical mania. For prophets, as I may say,
always speak in verse. And again, the musical Ol5eS the
prophetic mania spontaneously. ~ Plato says. But what
occasion is there to speak .about the ·amatory and musical
• Por "'°"""''" here, it ia neoeuary to read tMa"'"'"''
t And for ~'T"'~' reed ,.....,'=''""·
Digitized by Google
35:;
manias? For nearly the same persons exercise·both these,
as, for instance, Sappho, Anacreon, and the like, in con-
sequence of these not being able to subsist without each
other. But it is very evident that the amatory mania con-
tributes to all these, since it is subservient to enthusiasm of
Mery kind : for · no enthusiasm can be etrected without
amatory inspiration. And you may see how Orpheus
appears to have applied himself to all these, as being in
want of, aod adhering to, each other. For we learn that he
was most telestic, and most prophetic, and was excited by
Apollo; and besides this, that he was most poetic, on which
account he is said to have been the son of Calliope. He
was likewise most amatory, as he himself acknowledges to
Museeua, extending to him divine goods, and rendering him
perfect. Bence he appears to have been possessed with all
the manias, and this by a necessary consequence. For there
is an abundant union, conspiration, and alliance with each
other, of the Gods who preside over th
.ese manias, mz. of
the Muses, Bacchus, Apollo, and Love.
"It remains, therefore, that we should .unfold the nature
of each of the manias, previously observing that those which
are internal, and originate from the soul itself, and give
perfection to it, are of one kind ; but the extemal energies
of them, and which preserve the outward man, and our
nature, are of another. The four extemal, however, are
analogous to the four intemal manias. Let us .oorisider,
therefore, in the first place, the internal, and which alone
originate from the soul itself, and let us see what they effect
in the soul. In order, likewise, .that this may become
manifest, and also their arrangement, let us stll'Vey from on
high, the descent, as Plato say~ and defluxion of the wings
of the soul. From the beginning, therefore, and at first, the
soul was united to the Gods, and its unity to their one.
But afterwards the soul departing from this divine union
descended into int.elleet, and no longer possessed real beings
unitedly, aod in one, but apprehended and surveyed ihem
by simple projecti<ms, and, as- it were, contacts of its in-
tellect. In the nellit place, departing from intellect, and
descending into reasoning and dianoia, it no longer app~
bended real beings by simple intuitions, but syllogistically
and transitively, proceeding from one thing to anodrel', from
propositions to conclusions. · Afterwards, abandoning true
reasoning, and the dissolving peculiarity, it descended into
generation~ and became filled with much irrationality ·and
perturbation. It is necessary, therefore, that it should recur
AA2
Digitized by Google
356
to its proper principles and again return to the place from
llhence it came; To this ascent and apoeatastasis, however,
these four mauia8 contribute. Aud the musical mania, in-
deed, leads 0
to symphony and harmony, the agitated and
disturbed nature of the parts of the soul, 'Vhich were hurried
away to indefiniteness and inaptitude, and were filled :With
abundant tumult. But the telestic mania causes the soul to
be perfect and entire, and prepares it to energize intellectu-
ally. For the musical mania alone harmonizes and re-
presses the parts of the soul ; but the telestic causes the
whole of it to energize, and prepares it to become entire, so
that the intellectual part of it may energize. For the soul,
by de$cendiog into the realms of generation, resembles a
thing broken and relaxed. And the circle of the 1ame, or
the intellectual part of it, i~ fettered; but the circle of the
dijfer~t, or the d.oxastic part, sustai~s many fracttires and
turning!!. Henr,e, the soul energizes partially, and not
according to the whole of itSelf. The Dionysiacal inspira-
tion, therefore, after the 'parts of t1ae soul are coharmoDJzed~
renders·it perfect, ·aoo causes it to energize according to the
:whole of iti;ielf, a~d :to live ii:itellectnally. · But the Apolloni-
acal rnania. .converts and coexcites all the multiplied powers,
and the whole of the soul, to the one of it. Hence Apollo is
denominated as elevatieg the soul from multitude to the one.
And the.remaining mania, the amatory, receiving the soul
united~ conjpius thi& one of the sotil to the Gods, and to in-
telligi~le beauty. :.As the;givers, therefore, of these manias
are uan~eJidently united, ·and are in each other, the 'gifts
also on thia acoount parti.cipate of, and communicate with,
tiach.other, and the.recipient, which is the soul, possesses an
ad11-p4ation to all the gifts, This, therefore, is the order, and
these are the energies and .powers within the soul itself, of
these.four manias. .
" But let us also consider their external energies on
man, and what they outwardly effect about ns. The musical
mania, therefore., causea.lJS to speak in verse; and to act and
be moved rythmically, and: to .sing in metre, the splendid
deeds of divine men. and their virtues aad pursuits : and~
through these,.to discipline'our life, in the saoie manner as
the inward manias coharmonize our soul. BUt the telestic
mania, expelling every thing foreign, contaminating, and
noxious, preserves OQf life perfect and innoxious, and
banishing an insane and diabolical phantasy, causes us to be
sane, entire, and perfeet, just as the internal teleatic mania
mak.es the soul to be perfect and entire~ Again, the pro-.
Digitized by Google
3~7
pbetic mania contracts into one the extension and infinity of
time, and sees, as in one present now, all things, the past,
the future, and the existing time. Hence it predicts what
will be, which it sees as present to itself. It causes us,
therefore, to pass through life in an irrepreheosible manner;
jwt as the internal prophetic mania contracts and elevates
all the multiplied and many powers and lives of the sou) to
the one, in order that it may in a greater degree be pre-
served and connected. But the amatory mania converts
young persons to us, and causes them to become our friends;
being instructive of youth, and leading them from sensible
beauty to our psychical beauty, and from this sending them
to intelligible beauty ; in the same manner as the internal
amatory mania conjoins the one of the soul to the Gods.
" All the above mentioned manias, therefore, are superior
to the prudent and temperate energies of the soul. Never-·
theless, there is a mania which is coordinate with temper-
ance, and which we say bas in a certain respect a preroga-
tive ·above• it. For certain inspirations are produced,
according to the middle and also according to the doxastic
reasons of .the soul, conformably to which art~ts effect
certain things, and discover theorems beyond expectation,
as Asclepius, for instance, in medicine, and Hercules in the
practict life."
Afterwards, in commenting on what Plato says of the
mania from the Muses, viz. " that it. adorns the infinite
deeds of the ancients," Hermeas observes, " that the inward
energy in the sou) of the poetic mania, by applying itself to
superior and intelligible natures, imparts to subordinate
natures harmony and order; but that the external divinely-
inspired poetry celebrates the deeds of the ancients, and in-
structs both its contemporaries and posterity, extending
its energies every where." But Plato says, " that he who
without the divinely-inspired manla of the Muses expects to
become a divine poet, will, by thus fancying, become him-
self imperfect, and his poetry will be vanquished and con
cealed by the poetry which is the· progeny of mania."
Hermeas adds, " For what similitude is there between the
poetry of Chrerilus and Callimacbus, and that of Homer and.
Pindar? For the divinely-inspired poets, as being filled
• For u'tro here, it is necessary to read U'lr•P·
t The German editor or these Scbolia, in~tead of "P"X'l"IX~, which is the
true reading in this place, and which be found in the manuscript, absurdly
sobstitotes for it ?rux'l"1x~, as if Hercules was a pugilist. See my transla-
tion or the Diuertation of Maximus Tyrius, OD the Practic and Theoretic
Life.
Digitized by Google
368
from the Muses, always invoke them, and exteilcl 1o them
all that they say." For a fuller and most admira,ble account
of the poetic mania, and of the different species of poetry by
Proclus, see the notes on the tenth book of the Republic, in
my translation of Plato, ·and also the Introduction to my
translation of the Rhetoric, Poetic, and Nicomachean Ethics
of Aristotle.
From what is here said by Hermeas about enthusiasm,
the intelligent reader will easilysee that none of the Roman
poets, whose works have been transmitted to us, possessed
that.which is primarily, properly, and truly enthusiasm, or
that highest species of it in which the otte of the soul is illu-
minated by a divine nature, and through transcendent
similitude is united to it. As to Virgil, indeed, the prince
of these poets, though he invokes the Muse in the beginning
of the lEneid, yet his invocation of her is but a partial and
secondary thing. For be only calls on her to unfold to him
the causes that involved a man of such remarkable piety as
lEneaa in so many misfortunes :
Mun, mihi oaosa memora, &o.
And, confiding in his own genius, he begins bis poem with-
out soliciting supernal in11piratio11,
Arma, •iromqoe caoo, &o.
'to which may be added, that this placing himself before
the Muse, resembles the ego et meua rez of Wolsey. On
the contrary, divinely·inspired poets, as Hermeas well ob-
serves, knock, as it were, at the gates of the Muses, and thus
being filled from thence exclaim,
And,
EnirE vvv p.oi Mo11C10i-
And,
Avcpa µ01 tvvnrE Mova-a.
For being always extended to them, they dispose the whole
of what they afterwards say as deri\'ed from their inspiring
influence. With an arrogance too, peculiar to the Romans,
who, as a certain Greek poet• says, were a ~eople
Beyood measure proud.
He associates himself, in his fourth Eclogue, with tLe
Muses, aa their equal:
Sicelidea Mueie, paulo majora canainus.
• Vid. OIJmpiodo~. io Ari.tot. Meteor.
Digitized by Google
Which reminds me of what Sueto~ius relates of Caligula,
that he would place himself between the statues of Castor
and Pollux, and confer privately with Jupiter Capitolinus,
fancying that he was intimate with, and of equal dignity with,
these divinities. And as to the poets that have lived since
the fall of the Roman empire, it would be ridiculous to sup-
pose that they possessed this highest enthusiasm, as they did
not believe in the existence of the sources from whence it is
alone genuinely derived.
P. 67. The attenti~ power ofthe soul. This is thRt part
or power of the rational soul which primarily apprehends
the operations of the senses. For the rational soul not only
has intellect in capacity, the dianoetic power, will, and
choice, but another power, which is called by the best of the
Greek interpreters of Aristotle, as well as by lamblichus, ro
'll'pOfTEKTucoY, the attenti"e. This power investigates and
perceives whatever is transacted in man; and says, I under-
stand, I think, I opine, I am angry, I desire. And, in
short, this attentive part of the rational soul passes through all
the rational, irrational, vegetable, or physical powers. If,
therefore, it is requisite it should pass through all these
powers, it will also proceed through the senses, and say, I
see, I hear; for it is the peculiarity of that which appre-
hends energies thus to speak. Hence if it is the attentive
power which says these things, it is this power which appre-
hends the energy of sensibles ; for it is necessary that the
nature which apprehends all things should be one, since
man also is one. For if one part of it should apprehend '
these, and another those things, it is just, as Aristotle says,
as if yon should perceive this thing, and I that. It is
necessary, therefore, that the attentive power should be one
indivisible thing.
P. 74. For the huma1& SO'IJ.l is on all sfdes darke1ied by
body, which .he who denominates the river ofNegligence, or
the water of Oblivion, &c.--will not by lf!LCh appellations
sufficiently express its turpitude. " The whole of genera-
tion, as well a.'I the human body," says Proclus in Tim.
lib. v. p. 339, "may be called a river, through its rapid,
impetuous, and unstable ftox; Thus also in the Republic,
Plato calls the \vhole genesiurgic nature the river of Lethe ;
in which are contained, as Empedocles says, Oblivion, and
the meadow of Ate; the voracity of matter, and the light-
hating world, as the Gods say; and the winding streams
Digitized by Gooefe
360
· under which many are drawn down, as the Chaldean oraclea
assert."
P. 105. B11,t there are a certain few who by emp'/oyi•JJ a
certain npernat11,ral power of ixtellect, are renwved Jrom
nature, &c. The class to which these few belong is beauti-
folly unfolded, as follows, by Plotinus, in the beginning of
his Treatise on Intellect, Ideas, and real Being. " Since
all men from their birth employ sense prior to intellect, and
are necessarily first conversant with sensibles, some pro-
ceeding nofarther, pass through life, considering these as the
first and last of things, and apprehending that whatever is
painful among these is evil, and whatever is pleasant is
good ; thus thinking it sufficient to pursue the one and avoid
the other. Those, too, among them who pretend to a
greater share of reason than others, esteem this to be
wisdom, being affected in a manner similar to more heavy
birds, who collecting many things from the earth, and being
oppressed with the weight, are unable to fly on high, though
they have ·received wings for this purpose from nature.
But others are in a small degree elevated from things sub-
ordinate, the more excellent part of the soul recalling them
from pleasure to a more worthy pursuit. As they are, how-
ever, unable to look on high, and a8 not possessing any
thing else which can afford them rest, they betake them-
selves, together with the name of virtue, to actions and the
election of things inferior, from which,they at first endea-
voured to raise themselves, though in vain. I• the third
class is the race of divine men, who, through a more excel-
lentpower, and with piercing eyes, acutely perceive super-
nal light, to the vision of which they raise themselves above
the clouds and darkness, as it were, of this lower world,
and there abiding despise every thing in these regions of
sense·; being no otherwise delighted with the place which is
truly and properly their own, than he who after many wan-
derings is at length restored to his lawful country." See my
translation of the whole of this treatise.
P. 117. By mire, therefore, understand eoory thing cor-
poreal-formed and material. " Matter," says SiD1plicius in
his Commentary on the first book of Aristotle's Physics,
" is nothing else than the mutation of sensiblea, with respect
to intelligibles, deviating from thence, and carried down-
wards to non-being. Those things, indeed, which are the
properties of sensibles are irrational, corporeal, cliBtributed
Digitized by Google
361
into parts, and passing into bulk and divulsion, through au
ultimate progression into generation, viz. into matter ; for
matter is always truly the last sediment. Hence, also, the
Egyptians call the dregs of the first life, which they sym-
bolically denominate water, matter, being as it were a certain
mire. And matter is, as it were, the receptacle of gene-
rated and sensible natures, not subsisting as any definite
form, but as the state or condition of subsistence; just as
the impartible, the immaterial, true being, and things or
this kind, are the constitution of an intelligible nature ; all
forms, indeed, subsisting both in sensibles and intelligibles,
but in the former materially, and in the latter immaterially;
vi:. in the one impartibly and truly, but in the other parti-
bly and shadowy. Hence every form is in sensibles dis-
tributed according to material interval."
P. 120. Thrmtgh the innovation , and illegality of the
Greeks. lamblichus says, that through this innovation and
illegality, both names and prayers have at present lost their
efficacy. For during his time, and for some centuries prior
to it, the genuine religion of the Greeks was rapidly declin-
ing, through their novelty and volatility, of which he here
complains. Hence the Emperor Julian, in the fragments of
his treatise against the Christians, preserved by Ciryl, says,
speaking of the Christians, " If any one wishes to consider
the truth respecting you, he will find that your impiety con-
sists of the Judaic audacity, and the indolence and confusion
ofthe heathens. For deriving from both, not that which is
most beautiful, but the worst, you have fabricated a web of '
evils.--Hence, from the innovation of the Hebrews, you
have seized blasphemy towards the venerable Gods ; but
from our religion you have cast aside reverence to every
nature more excellent than man, and the love of paternal
institutes." To -yap aX,,BE( n Tl( vtrtp vµ"'v dJiXoi CT1C011't1v,
Ellfl'l'JCTU T'l'JV vµinpav aui{3nav, EiC rt T'l'J(. lovoaiic'l'J( ToXµ'I'/(
ICat TT/( '1t'apa TOI( _
E6vtCTIV ao1apop1a( Kat 'X_VOmOT'l'JTO~ CTV"/ICEl-
µtV'l'JV• t~ aµpo1v -yap ovTi TO 1t:a:\X1o;ov aXXa TO x_upov
EMVCTaVTE(, '1t'apv1J>'l'JV ICUICIJV E1p-yauau6E.--A1fo µtv OVJ' TT/(
E{3pa1"'v 1t:aiv0Toµ1a( TO {3Xa111J>'l'JµE1v T1µ1Jµtvov~ 8tov( 'l'/pra-
CTaTt• a'1t'o OE T'l'Jc 1rap 'l'/µ1r 6pf'/CT1Ctta( TO µiv tvXa{3H TE
oµov 1rpo( mra11av T'l'JV "PE«irrova 1J>vo1v, ""' Tldv '1t'arp1"'v a-ya-
'lr'1T11Cov, ar0Xt>..01'1t'art•.
P. 122. Prior to truly existing beings, and total p1'inci-
plea, &c. Of the two most ancient principles of all things
Digitized by Google
362
mentioned in this chapter, a8 celebrated by Hermes, the
first corre_spoods to tlte one itselfof Plato, and the second to
being itse!f, or superessential being, the summit of the intelli-
gible triad; which two principles are beautifully unfolded
by Proclus in the second.and third books of his treatise on
the Theology of Plato.
P. U2, He arranges the God E7Upk prior to, arul a tke
leader of, the celutial God&.-Bxt prior to tl&is he arrcnget1
the iwpartibl,e oxe, which he say• u the firn paradigm, arul
which he deMminatea EictQfl. It appears to me that the
former of these two divinities is the same with Saturn, who
is the summit of the intellectual order of Gods ; and that the
latter is the a11imat it.elf of Plato, or .the Phanes oC
Orpheus, who subsists at the extremity of the intelligible
triad. For the God Eneph is said by Iamblichus to be an
intellect intellectually perceiving itself, and converting in-
tellections to itself; and these are the characteristics or
Saturn. And the God Eicton is said to be the first para-
digm, and thiB is also asserted of Phanes.
P. 123. For the booh tohich are circulated 11nder the
xame of Hermes, CQfltaia Hermaic opiniou, thml,gh they
freqw.ently employ the language of the phiwtophm : for tltey
111ere.tramlated from the Egyptian tQ11g.e by mea who were
ut uukilled iR plU.lolophy. A few only of these books
are no:w extant, but what is here said by Iamblichus suffi-
ciently proves their authe,oticity, and that they contain the
genuine doctrines of Hermes. They have doubtless, how-
ever, been occasionally interpolated by some of the early
Christians, though not to that extent which modern critics,
and that mitred sophist Warburton, suppose.
P. 123. And w,ch a iave written CfJf&cerning the decafll.
The twelve parts, mentioned in the preceding chapter, into
which the Egyptians divide the heavens, are the twelve signs
of the zodiac. But the thirty-six parts are the twelve houses
of the planets, divided into three other portions, which they
call decans. Ptolemy, however, in his Quadripartite, sub-
verts this doctrine of the Egyptians. Concerning these
decans, see Scaliger ad Maniliu~, Kircher 11. parte Oedipi,
and Salmasius de Annis climactericis. Gale also gives the
following extract from Hermes relative to the decans, which
bad not been before published, and which he derived from
a MS. copy of Stobreus in the possession of Vossius.
Digitized by Google
363
<l>a,uE11 ,,, TE1C11011, fl'EpiEICTllC011 T"11 Q'lf'Q11T6W Et11at TO t11Jµa.
E1111011uo11 01111 avro ""1'1t'Ep KVICAOEtOEC ux.11,ua--111ro CE rov
1C11ICA0J1 rov ""',uaroc rovrov TErax.8ai rove >..-; CEicavovc, ,UEt1ovc
TOii 'lf'QVTOt; ICVICAOIJ TOI/ (lJCtaicov.-vo11uuµEv 61tl'lt'EpEt 1/111>..a-
ICat; avrouc '1t'f"'lo;alT8at TtJ11 EV r:ouµ't' afl'avr,,,11, 1Ta11ra uvnx.-
ovrac--r:ai r11pov11rac r,,v r"'v f1'a11rtJ11 Evra~ia11.--ETt Ce
110'1"011"' Tar, ori a'll'alJnc uu111 "'11 oi a>..>..ot ao;EpEt; raa-x.ovui11. ·
OVTl yap etrEX.OµE110t T011 Opoµov o;11pt(0Vtlt111 OVTE ICIJAllO/LE110t
a11aroet(ovt1t11, a>..>..' 0110£ µ1111 afl'o rov '/lt.l'TOt; rov 11>..iov t11CE'11'011-
rm, artp 11"aa-x.ova-w ot a>..>..ot a<;EpEt;. EAEV8Epot oe 011rtt;
ll'lf'Epa11., f1'a11r6111, "1trtrEp '/lv'X.ar:Ec teat wiuicorot aKpt{3uc rou
ravroc, '1rEpitx.011rai TtJ 1111x.811µtp<p ro fl'a11.--ex_ovui 1rpot;
11,uac r1111 µt'Yt<;1111 c1111aµt11. i. e. " We say, 0 &on, that the
body [of the universe] is comprehensive of all things. Con-
ceive, therefore, this to be as it were of a circular form.-
But under the circle of this body the thirty.:six decans are
arranged, as the media of the whole circle of the zodiac.--
These, likewise, must be ,understood to preside as guardians
over every thing in the world, connecting and containing all
things--and preserving the established order of all things.
--Farther still, understand, 0 Tat, that these decans
are impassive to the things whfoh the other stars suffer.
For nettber being detained, do they stop their course, nor
being impeded do they recede, nor are they, like the other
stars, concealed as with a veil by the light of the sun. But
being liberated above all things, they comprehend the uni-
verse as the guardians and accurate inspectors of it, in the
Nycthemeron [or the space ofnight and day].--Tbey also
possess, with respect to us, the greatestpower."
P. 125. So that what yov. add from Homer, "that the
Gods are jlezible," it ii not holy to a&Bert. The words of
Homer are t1pretrroi ot TE Kai 8Eot a11ro1, and are to be found
in Iliad ix. v. 493. But when Iamblicbus says, it is not holy
to assert the Gods are flexible, be means that it is not holy
according to the literal signification of the words; divine
flexibility indicating nothing more than this, that those who
through depravity were before unadapted to receive the
illuminations of the Gods, and in consequence of this were
subject to the power of avenging dremons; when afterwards
they obtain pardon of their guilt through prayers and sacri-
fices, and through methods of this kind apply a remedy to
their vices, again become partakers of the goodness of the
Gods. So that divine flexibility is a resumption of the par-
ticipation ofdivin~ light and goodness by those who through
inaptitude were ·before deprived of it.
Digitized by Google
364
P. 130. DtimU>nl pruide over the part& of nr body.
Proclus in the fragments of his Ten Doubts concerning
Providence, preserved by Fabricius in the eighth voL of his
Bibliotheca Gneca, observes, " That the Gods, with an
exempt traoscendency, extend their providence to all things,
but that dcemons, .dividing their auperessential subsistence,
receive the guardianship of different herds of animals, dis-
tributing the providence of the Gods, as Plato says, as far as
to the most ultimate division. Hence some of them preside
over men, others over lions or other animals, and others
over plants; and still more partially, some are the inspec-
tive g~ardiaos of the eye, others of the heart, and others of
the liver." He adds, " all things, however, are full ofGods,
some of whom exert their providentialenergies immediately,
but others through dmmons as media : not that the Gods are
incapable of being present to all things; but that ultimate
are themselves unable to participate primary.natnres." Hence
it must be said that there is one principal dcemon, who is
the guardian and governor of every thing that is in us, and
many dcemons subordinate to him, who preside over .our
parts. ..;
P. 134. Hence it is reqw,ilite to. consider how he may be
liberated frmn, these botuh. " The one salvation of the soul
herself," says Proclus in·Tim. lib. v. p. 330, " which is ex-
tended by the Demiurgus, and which liberates her from the
circle of generation, from abundant wanderings, and an in-
efficacious life, is her return to the intellectual form, and a
flight from every thing which naturally adheres to us from
generatien. For it is necessary that the soul, which is
hurled like seed into the realms of generation, should lay
aside the stubble and bark, as it were, which she obtained
from being disseminated into these fluctuating realms; and
that purifying herself from every thing circumjacent, she
should become an intellectual flower and fruit, delighting in
an intellectual life, instead ofdoxastic nutriment, and pursu-
ing the uniform and simple energy of the .period of same-
ness, instead of the abundantly wandering motion of the
period which is characterized by difference. For she con-
tains each of these circles> and twofold powers. And of her
horses one is good, but tbe other the contrary [as it said in
the Phcedrus]. And olie of these leads her to generation,
but the other from generation to true being. The one also
leads her round the genesiurgic, but the other round the in-
tellectual circle. For the period of the same and the similar
elevates to intellect, and an intelligible nature, and to the
Digitized by Google
. f1
I
365
first and most excellent habit. But this habit is that accord-
ing to which the soul being winged governs the whole world,
becoming assimilated to the Gods themselves. And this is
the universal form of life in the soul, just as that is the par-
tial form, when she falls into the last body, and becomes
something belonging to an individual, instead of belonging
to the universe. The middle of these, also, is the partial
universal, when she lives in conjunction with her middle
vehicle, as a citizen of generation. Dismissing, therefore,
her 6rst habit, which subsists according to an alliance to the
whole of generation, and laying aside the irrational nature
which connects her with generation, likewise governing her
irrational part by reason, and extending opinion to intellect,
she will be circularly led to a happy life from the wanderings
about the regions ofsense: which life those that are initiated
by Orpheus in the mysteries of Bacchus and ,Pr~erp~e,
pray that they may obtain, together with the allotn,Jenl$.of,
the [celestial] sphere, and a cessation of evil. But if our
soul necessarily lives well, when living according to the
circle of sameness, much more must this be the case with
divine souls. It is, hO\vever, possible for our soul to live
according to the circle of sameness, when purified, as Plato
says. Cathartic virtue, therefore, alone must be c:alled the
salvation of souls: since this cuts off, and vehemently oblite-
rates, material natures, and the passions which adhere to us
from generation: separates the soul and leads it to intellect;
and causes it to leave on earth the vehicles with which it is
invested. For souls in descending receive from the elements .
different vehicles; aerial, aquatic, and terrestrial; and thus
atlastenter into this gross bulk. For how, without a medium,
could they proceed into this body from immaterial spirits1"
··ii\
THE END.
C. Whittingham, College Hoose, Cbiawick.
Digitized by Google
THE FOLLOWING IS A .LIST
OP
TRANSLATIONS AND ORIGINAL WORKS.
BY T. TAYLOR.
~iantlationf.
FROM THE GREEK.
THE HYMNS OF ORPHEUS, 12mo. 2s. 6d. seton.
PLOTINUS ON THE BEAUTIFUL, 12mo. ts. 6d.
-·PROCLUS ON EUCLID, and his Elements of The-
ology, in which the principal Dogmas of a Theology coeval with the
Univene are unfOllded. ! vole. -I.to. !l. 10s. bO<Wdi.
FOUR DIALOGUES OF PLATO, fliz. the Cratylus,
Pluedo, Parmenidt'IJ, and Timams, Svo. 7s.6d. boards,
THE PH.lEDRUS OF PLATO, 4to. 6s. boards.
'SALLUST ON THE GODS AND THE WORLD.
8vo. &. boards.
TWO ORATIONS OFTHE EMPEROR JULIAN,
one to the Sovereign Son, and the other to the Mother of the Gods.
8vo. Ss. boards.
FIVE BOOKS OF PLOTINUS, viz. on Felicity; on
the Nature and Origin of Evil; on Providence; on Nature. Contem·
platiou, and the One; and on the Descent of the &nL 8vo. 58. boards.
PAUSANIAS'S DESCRIPTION OF GREECE,
with copions Notes, in which much of the Mythology of the Greeks is
unfolded from genuine ancient 1onrces. S vola. svo. 188. board.I.
ARISTOTLE'S METAPHYSICS,with copiousNotes,
in which the Platonic Doctrine of Ideas ii largely unfolded. •t.o.tl. u.
boarda.
THE DISSERTATIONS OF MAXIMUS TYRI-
us. ! volll. itmo. 1!•.boaru. ·
THE WORKS Ol' PLATO, in which the Substance
ia given of nearly all the exiating Greek MSS., Commentaries and
Scholia on Plato, and bis moat abstruse Dogmas are oufolded. 5 vols.
4to. tOl. 10& boards.
THE WORKS OF ARISTOTLE, accompanied with
ct>pions Elocidationa from the l>f>at of bis Greek Commeo1ator1, m.
Alexander Aphrodiaieoaia, Syrianos, Ammonius Hermieas, Priaeianus,
' Olympiodorus, Simplicios, &c, 9 vols. 4to. 47l. 5s. 1-iU. .
Digitized by Google
