{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ann_t_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Ann T Possible NDE 4004","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ann T Possible NDE 4004  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ann T Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			1919 Ann T Possible NDE 4004  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had just returned to Georgia from a reunion party in Texas. I was sick during the whole reunion and hadn't kept any food or water down for days on end. Once I arrived back in Atlanta Georgia, I immediately tried to get on a flight to San Antonio Texas. My husband and three children were already there waiting my arrival. We had previously planned that I would fly out to San Antonio soon after my reunion. We had planned a family vacation there in the months before this trip.

After I arrived on board the flight to Texas, I felt extremely dizzy and disoriented. I began to have cramps and spasms in my lower legs. I hadn't kept any water down for several days, but never dreamed of canceling our family vacation over it. I didn't want to disappoint my kids, who'd been looking forward to this vacation for months. But I was getting more and more ill.

Suddenly I knew my body 'my health' was in real trouble. I knew I needed a doctor and I could die. Something in my soul just knew it - all the sudden.

A flight stewardess must have read my thoughts, because she approached me with great concern on her face. She asked me if I was okay, I get embarrassed easily when attention is placed on me, so in my shyness I replied 'Yeah, I'm fine.'

I believe I just went to sleep or something. About forty-five minutes later, I was looking down at myself from the ceiling of the airplane. Somehow, I could see around the corner into the meal preparation area to and at the same time, I was looking down at myself. Then simultaneously I could see straight down the aisle from the back of the plane, all the while I could see in that very moment the flight stewardess around the corner preparing food, all the while in that very second I was looking straight down at my body as if I was perched on the ceiling. I knew something extraordinary was happening and I immediately suspected I had died or something. I kept looking down from the ceiling at myself, trying to see if I was breathing. I wasn't ready to die. At one point, it appeared to me that my chest was rising and falling and at another point, I couldn't be sure.

Then I found myself outside of the airplane, near the wing. The clouds were white fluffy popcorn looking and it seemed so much brighter outside. I knew this couldn't be so, because it was nighttime outside and yet the clouds were so bright like it was high noon.

Then in the next moment, I was somewhere else altogether. I was standing motionless above a large body of water. The water was a brilliant deep cobalt blue color. The water was so alluring to look at, as if it was alive or something. In front of me was a very plain looking wooden desk with a book placed squarely in the middle. On the other side of this desk stood a brilliant Being wearing a vibrant white robe. Every fiber of my being understood this being to be my Savior Jesus Christ, although I did not look directly at him. I stared slightly over towards his direction, so that I could make out his appearance. Something inside of me told me that I wasn't spiritually ready yet to look directly at him. I also knew I'd never want to be anywhere else, if I took in the total personage of him.

Way off in the distance, to the right of me was a dry rocky shoreline. A figure appeared to be on the shoreline pacing back and forth. It was a man. I understood him to be lost. As he continued to pace I tried to focus in on him to see if I recognized him. I never could get an accurate enough view of him. The knowledge seemed to enter into to me that I was connected with this individual in such a way that led me back to Jesus as well.

I often wondered who that man was; I have to admit I was never given an answer. I think it was something I was to figure out on my own.

I'm not sure at what point I came back or came to. I just remember hearing that the plane was in its final decent into San Antonio. I was still sick with constant agonizing crams and spasms in my lower legs. The pain was just unreal. But I was alive and determined to get the medical help I needed once we landed.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Summer of 2003

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Illness    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   I had been suffering from the worse flu of my life. I was into day five of this flu.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Just prior to getting on the airplane to go to San Antonio Texas.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was able to soak in knowledge in ways I can't quite explain. Also, I seemed to be able to view things from multiple positions in the airplane, but all at once.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Like I said earlier, I came upon a being who my soul recognized to be my savior. I was also shown a man who I didn't seem to know.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I found myself above a large body of water.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Strangely, I felt calm for the most part. I did feel fear though off and on. I felt fear in respect to leaving my children. I didn't want to leave my children alone in this world without me. I was worried about what would happen to them. I never felt fear though of the experience itself. I never felt fear of what was happening to me in that moment.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I'm a lot more forgiving and understanding towards others. I focus on God's Mercy just as much as his Justice now.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I'm a lot more forgiving and understanding towards others. I focus on God's Mercy just as much as his Justice now.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The extra senses that I had, the scenes I was shown and the way knowledge was exchanged.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     The veil was thin for about two weeks. It's a long story I won't go into, but after two weeks everything went back to normal.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes. When I was above the water and Jesus stood across from me, on the other side of the table. I still see that scene in my head from time to time and a warm feeling washes over me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Just a few trusted family members and friends.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I'd hear stories from time to time, but nothing like mine. Most NDE's involved white lights, tunnels and deceased relatives. Mine did not. I kind of wished afterwards that I could have seen my deceased grandmother, because I miss her terribly.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I knew it was real. The experience always felt concrete to me. I never felt the need to talk anyone into the 'realness' of my experience.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     As I look back on my life now, I feel that nothing has really changed as far as my perception of that whole experience. If anything, it only feels even more real. I've never experienced anything like that experience since. My perception of reality feels sound and clear in my mind's eye.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No, except that the veil was thin for about two weeks afterwards. This was a great learning period for me. This additional experience changed me forever on the inside. I'm a better person now because of these experiences. I've learned to rely more on what I FEEL than with what I see with my physical eyes.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ann_t_possible_nde.html