{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ann_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Ann S NDE 2617","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ann S NDE 2617  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ann S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						852  Ann S NDE  2617  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I had a difficult birth with my first child - she was induced and the birth lasted almost two days. When I finally got into the delivery room, things started to go wrong. I heard them talking about tachycardia, and then something about my oxygen level and fetal problems. I wanted to stay and help, do what I could to make things go right with the birth, but I was suddenly out of my body and somewhere else.

It wasn't a bad place, just filled with people in line and very dark. There was a clicking sound all around us. I asked what the sound was, and why we were in a line. The 'person' a light, in charge, told me that we were in line to be born and this would show us what was coming and how it would all end. The clicking happened every time someone was born, and when it was our turn we would get a flash of our lives, live our lives and then come back home.

I was so excited, I was going to be a human, I was going to be real, and I was going to get married and have a family and do all kinds of wonderful things!

Finally, it was my turn. I stepped into the world, and I saw everything that was going to happen with me, the good and the bad, the child that was just being born, and the choice I could make about living and raising her or stopping now - and then the bad things were shown and I was asked to choose.

Of course, I'd been so excited to have a chance that I chose life, and everyone agreed with that choice. I was shown the future lifetime and then I could see the end coming, and all I could think of was when it ends, I want another chance, another go around, because it was so wonderful.

The clicking stopped, I was brought back to consciousness and so far life as progressed pretty much as was told to me.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1966  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Childbirth       Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Birth of first child - oxygen dropped to critical levels, heart went into tachycardia.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Yes, it was brighter, more interesting, with much more anticipation and excitement.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All the way through the experience, I was very aware of what was going on.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     Life wasn't in a matter of minutes or hours or days, we had a whole flash of life shown to us, and then we got our chance to live it.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was dark, with incredibly brilliant lightness in front of us.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The clocking stands out in my memory.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Person in the light who talked to me, and others in the line with me - all of us excited and waiting for our chance to live and die and come back home.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Where I went to was rather dark, but there was light in the persons around me.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Excitement and anticipation.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     Had a review of the life yet to come, with only a bit of review of the life I'd had until then. What I learned was that it would be a good thing to totally experience life, enjoy everything that could be enjoyed, deal with the pain and stay aware of every moment.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From personal future        I saw the wonderful things that would happen with my family, the fun and the excitement of building our lives and home and learning everything I could possibly learn. I also saw the child with the brain tumor and her struggles, and my husband's descent into dementia and a divorce that I had no control over. It has all come to pass, but it's not over yet!  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Latter Day Saint (Mormon)  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Went from 'Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints' to Wicca, with a view of the whole world as being linked - we've all been there and seen what's coming, as has the world around us experienced her own life.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Went from 'Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints' to Wicca, with a view of the whole world as being linked - we've all been there and seen what's coming, as has the world around us experienced her own life.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Unidentifiable voice     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I had a chance to see that my life would start and live and end, and what I did with that life was mostly mine to do with as I wished. I could enjoy it and revel in the earth and all the delights of an earthly existence or I could be miserable. My choice!  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes More intense, more willing to go the extra mile and to stay involved when it would have been very easy to give up during hard times.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     My family has a strong history of precognitive dreams and experiences, and of being able to tell what each of us are thinking. So far it's worked pretty well, but I don't know how involved with the childbirth experience it was.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It made me very happy and also made me keep on learning about everything I could, and experiencing life to the fullest.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Still real. I think it has helped me through some of the tough times to know that it will all come to a successful close.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ann_s_nde.html