{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1anitta_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Anitta J NDE3716","mylang":"de"}
          	        Anitta J NDE3716  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Anitta J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1715 Anitta J NDE 3716  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I remember that there was a problem with the rhythm of my heart and I fell down. I had a terrible pain in my head and was suddenly in a very dark tunnel going fast forward. I saw an enormous light at the end of the tunnel and I was going to it. My previous life went through like a film. Then I felt that somebody, whose face I did not see, took me on the arms and I felt very peaceful. There was no fear or pain, just happy and restful feeling. Then I saw my father, just like he was when he lived and he said to me, 'Come here, here is good to be.' I wanted to run to him, but I could not, because there was a border between us. I cannot describe the border it was like a wall, which I could see through. 

Then I heard a dark voice that seemed to be everywhere, asking, 'Who?' meaning my identity and then the words, 'Not yet.' I was given the number 'thirty-four'. Then I was obliged to turn back, which I did not want, because I had such a good feeling there. Again, I was in the tunnel coming back very fast and at the same time, the pain in my body came back. I had cried, 'No, no,' when I was coming back to consciousness. For many days afterwards I had a strange feeling, where I am and I missed my father a lot, whom I had seen.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  in march 1967

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I have Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome and I had a heart attack.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       There on the other side, I felt that all happened at the same time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     All happened at the same time, obviously the time I was away was very short but there happened a lot of things.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was something that could never happen in this life, the light was brighter than any I had seen before, the voice was dark but gentle. I saw that some kind of tall figure took me on the arms, but could not see the face.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could not recognize, wherefrom the voice came.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was a very dark tunnel and I went forward very fast and then the light came nearer when coming to the end of the tunnel. I lost the sense of my body and when coming back the pain of my body came back.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw my father, who had died a year before my experience. Then I saw a tall figure who took me on the arms, but not the face of it. My father said to me, come here, it is good to be here. My identity was asked by a dark voice and it said then not yet, then I heard the number thirty-four.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was at the end of the tunnel and it was extremely bright.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, peace, restfulness. When sent back, pain.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     My short life went like a film through. Somehow it was clear to me that love is all that means, we live to learn to love people, who are in our life.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     It was clear that if I go over, I cannot come back.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     When I became adult, I left Lutheran church, because my God is God of love not God of doom.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     When I became adult, I left Lutheran church, because my God is God of love not God of doom.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Just the meaning of love.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   For a long time I was scared to tell about my experience thinking that the listener thinks me funny.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     A few times I have felt a feeling of death near a person, who has died after a little time.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Being on the other side was a real feeling, not a dream or imagination. I have not believed that there is death after the experience.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It took a few years before I told this to my mother and sister; they thought that it was my unconsciousness that caused the experience. Now I have told this to some people, who have lost their loved ones.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The reality has not changed; it is as real after forty years.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was a move to another reality, so real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1anitta_j_nde.html