{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1anita_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Anita C NDE 4543","mylang":"de"}
          	        Anita C NDE 4543  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Anita C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2288 Anita C NDE 4543  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					During a dental procedure there was a bright light that I rose up to and was subsequently fully engulfed by. A very calming male voice told me I had a choice to move on further into the light or stay in my present element. I was looking down and was able to recall the tops of the heads of all the medical personnel in the room. I was briefly considering going further into the light.

The male voice told me that time was running out and that I must give a response, and I did say that I chose to stay because I could withstand my controlling grandmother and did not want to leave my grandfather. I did not immediately awaken, but continued to watch the scene below me for a while. I'm unable to estimate the length of time. The nurses were shaking me, tapping the tops of my hands, and rubbing my arms while the doctor was very loudly yelling for someone to get my grandmother quickly and he kept saying they were losing me.

Being so young, I never repeated this event until I was in my late thirties. I worried that no one could possibly believe my story.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1945

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Unable to be revived while under anesthetic.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Not sure how to answer this.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Not sure how to answer this.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     In a way, it was as if time stood still, except for the mellow male voice.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Brightness.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    More focused on what was being said.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Seemingly, I passed into what appeared to be a tunnel of clouds.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was very bright.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Beautiful light, ascending.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Freedom and curiosity.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Very accurate and very painful.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I know there is an afterlife and actually, I find it difficult to even consider there is even a possibility there is not life after we die.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Learned early on to be accepting of people.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I had just finished a book regarding the paranormal which reiterated how the spirits did not appreciate being talked about or taken lightly. While explaining this to my husband and laughing about my grandfather's spirit being in the house, in which he had owned and resided, there was a fairly loud thump, as though something had fallen onto the floor. But we could not locate anything out of place.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The significance of there being more than what we experience on earth is comforting now and always has been since childhood.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was at least a couple of weeks before I tried to tell someone and was told that something just happened to fall in the house. Several years later, I repeated the story and once again, was told that was not possible. I doubt that anyone was influenced by my experience, especially those in academia, scientific or otherwise.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Because there was no reason to doubt this experience.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It is a comfort and sometimes I'll admit to being a little self-assured about a hereafter life.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1anita_c_nde.html