{"name":"J Arthur Hill | Psi Encyclopedia","type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/psi-encyclopedia.spr.ac.uk\/articles\/j-arthur-hill","mytitle":"J Arthur Hill | Psi Encyclopedia","mylang":"de"}
                     J Arthur Hill | Psi Encyclopedia                                  Skip to main content                                                        	                  

Follow&nbsp;                                     Toggle navigation                                                                                       Home About Contents A-Z Categories New To Psi Research? Nigel Buckmaster Contributors                                                                                                                           J Arthur Hill                                                                                                                                                                                                                          J Arthur Hill (1872-1951) was an English author of books on psychical research and spiritualism. &nbsp;   Contents   	Life and Career 	Views on Psychical Research 	Selected Works on Psychical Research  	Articles 	Books   	Literature 	Endnotes     Life and Career

John Arthur Hill was born in Halifax, England, on 4 December 1872. He studied at the Thornton Grammar School in Bradford, then worked as a business manager until 1898. Obliged by ill-health to cut back his professional activities, he read extensively on psychical research, notably books and papers by William Crookes, Oliver Lodge, FWH Myers and Richard Hodgson.

Hill joined the Society for Psychical Research and was member of its governing council between 1927 and 1935. He chronicled researches on telepathy, clairvoyance, mediumship, survival of death, and other subjects, publishing several books, along with reports of his own investigations. His contributions as a historian of the spiritualist movement and the progress of scientific parapsychology were generally well received, especially the 1918 volume Spiritualism: Its History, Phenomena and Doctrine.1

Hill compiled and annotated an edition of Oliver Lodge’s personal and professional correspondence.2 He was also a devoted scholar of the American essayist Ralph Waldo Emerson.  Views on Psychical Research

Hill was impressed by the experimental researcg carried out by SPR members, and their logical treatment of the evidence. He became convinced of the reality of telepathy, psychometry, clairvoyance, and other unusual phenomena unrecognized by the science of his day. He believed they could be due to subliminal powers of living people, although some might indicate the agency of discarnate human beings.

Personal experience, he thought, is necessary to attain real convictions regarding these matters, a point of view that owed much to Myers, whose pioneering work he always praised.3 Researchers in this new field had to ‘invent the technique of the inquiry’ and ‘learn its application’. He sat with several clairvoyants and mediums, notably Aaron Wilkinson, with whom he developed the methodological approaches that he recommended in his texts.

By 1930 he was inclined to think that ‘we are perhaps doing more useful work by grubbing along at telepathy’ and like subjects  

which do not too much shock the orthodox scientific man, than by arguing for spiritualistic interpretations or by having sittings for materialisation. These things may put off some minds which would at least tolerate the less startling phenomena. Science wants to link up the unknown with the known, and it is perhaps well to avoid jumps into very far countries’.4

He felt that the question of survival and a future state was ‘urgent and abiding’ for psychical research, especially in the aftermath of World War I,5&nbsp; and that the accumulated evidence was ‘sufficient to justify belief’ in such things.6  Selected Works on Psychical Research  Articles

1918. The Evolution of a Psychical Researcher. Occult Review 28, July-December, 25-31.

1927. Personal experiences and opinions. Psychic Science 7/1, April, 7-16.

1930. The Present Position on Psychical Research. Psychic Science 9/1, April, 2-10.  Books

1911. New Evidences in Psychical Research. London: William Rider &amp; Son. [Introduction by&nbsp;Oliver Lodge.]

1916. The Hope of Immortality - Is it Reasonable? In&nbsp;What Happens After Death? A Symposium by Leading Writers and Thinkers. New York: Funk &amp; Wagnalls Company.

1917a. Psychical Investigations.&nbsp;New York: Doran.

1917b. Psychical Miscellanea.&nbsp;New York: Harcourt, Brace &amp; Howe.

1919a. Spiritualism: Its History, Phenomena and Doctrine.&nbsp;New York: Doran. [Introduction by&nbsp;Arthur Conan Doyle.]

1919b. Spiritualism and Psychical Research.&nbsp;London: T. C. &amp; E. C. Jack.

1929. Psychical Science and Religious Belief.&nbsp;London: Rider &amp; Company.

Roberto R Narvaez  Literature

Lodge, O. 1932. Letters from Sir Oliver Lodge. Psychical, Religious, Scientific, and Personal. Compiled and Annotated by J. Arthur Hill. London: Cassell and Company, Ltd. [Foreword by Oliver Lodge.]

Pleasants, H. (ed.). 1964. Biographical Dictionary of Parapsychology with Directory and Glossary. 1964-1966. New York: Helix Press.   Endnotes 1. Pleasants (1964), 139; Hill (1918). 2. Lodge (1932). 3. Hill (1919a), ix-x. 4. Hill (1930), 3. 5. Hill (1919a), 31; Hill (1917a), ch. 2. 6. Hill (1919a), vi-vii; Hill (1927), 8.           			  			     			This page was last updated on: October 08, 2023   			 			                                               	       Search form        Search                   Article Information           	Author: Roberto R. Narváez Word count: 600 Created: 8th October 2023 Last updated: 8th October 2023 May be cited as:Narváez, R. R. (2023). &lsquo;J Arthur Hill&rsquo;. Psi Encyclopedia. London: The Society for Psychical Research. &lt;https://psi-encyclopedia.spr.ac.uk/articles/j-arthur-hill&gt;. Retrieved 10 January 2024. Short URL:www.tinyurl.com/ynfx4vqo                   	                                                                              

                      	                                                                                                                      	                                                                                            ESP                                        Psychokinesis                                        Psi Healing                                        Possession &amp; Past Lives                                                                          Mediums &amp; Psychics                                        Hauntings &amp; Apparitions                                        Poltergeists                                        Out-of-Body &amp; Near Death Experiences                                                                          Scientists &amp; Researchers                                        General Psi Topics                                        Other Phenomena                                        Organizations &amp; Publications                                                                               	 	About 	Contact 	Copyright 	Login                    

Visit the Society for Psychical Research                

[1] https://psi-encyclopedia.spr.ac.uk/articles/j-arthur-hill