{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1anika_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Anika S NDE 3398","mylang":"de"}
          	        Anika S NDE 3398  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Anika S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1337 Anika S NDE 3398  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had Lupus, and at the time I was in the hospital for a kidney infection. I had been in the hospital two weeks when one night my hero, Doctor E, came into my room and told my mother and me that I have a blood disorder known as TTP and I had to be transferred to the cardiac intensive care unit immediately. After that visit, everything seemed to go into warp speed for me. I remember waking in the cardiac intensive care unit with a huge oxygen mask blowing in my face, I was like a child again who didn't want to wear what their mother put on them, I wanted that thing off fast. My consciousness was scattered at best, I do remember an Asian nurse yelling at me most of the time, telling me to get back into bed and leave my oxygen mask on. I wasn't having it. In my hazy defiance, I got off the bed again and went toward the toilet area. That's when it happened, on my way there I recall turning around looking up as if God was above me and I had my hands up towards the heavens.

After that, all I remember is seeing flashes of things happening. I don't remember if this is the order of the actual events happening but I will try my best to put it together. I remember being in an operating room by myself and wondering where everyone was.  Then there was a metal tube down my throat and me trying to take it out, I blacked out. I was tied down to the bed, I tried to get out, black out. I saw a nurse standing above me, and I clearly asked her if I had died, black out again.

The most profound part was when I found myself falling, falling and being very afraid, unsure of what was happening and just confused. I was in the blackest place ever; it was like being out in space without the stars. As I'm falling, I hear a voice telling me that everything would be alright and in that instant I felt the most amazing peacefulness, stillness and genuine love I have ever felt. It felt like the Holy Spirit touched my soul. After that, I saw in the distance a tunnel, all this time though I'm floating/swimming towards the tunnel, which is made up of spheres, the brightest colors I've ever seen. I'm swimming/floating though them. I remember being guided and being told things (unfortunately, I don't remember what was said, I just remember guidance).

The next thing I remember after that was waking up and my dad, proclaiming, 'So, you're alive!!'

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'January 21, 2007'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  IllnessHeart attack    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   My heart stopped beating three different times in one day.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       In the black void, I knew things. I don't remember them now, but I had a new knowledge of things.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     The Black Vast Void.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I guess you can say the tunnel of colors I traveled through was among the brightest I've seen so far in life.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was in the black void, after the voice came down to me and told me all would be alright with me, I was shown a tunnel of giant spheres that I floated through. The spheres was vividly colored and huge and I was swimming/floating through them.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       In the beginning I felt, confusion, afraid, then deep peace and love.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     My connection with God is much deeper. I feel his presence more.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     My connection with God is much deeper. I feel his presence more.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew at that moment God was real.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I no longer allow peoples thoughts about me to affect me, I am much more tolerant and less ego based. I do things for the goodness of doing things.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   There was so much happening during that time, I don't remember what order things truly went.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I had dreams that I was able to interpret (which I could not do before).

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        When I asked the nurse if I did indeed die, and the black void experience. I dream a lot and I have many dreams of other places and different people but the black void experience was something I know I could not have conceived on my own.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My family, right after the situation. Which I found out was actually one week after the actual event. I was put into a drug induced coma after I was 'brought back'.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I knew it existed.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew something awesome had happened to me, it was a unique experience that only with the help of a higher power it could be possible.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I knew something awesome had happened to me, it was a unique experience that only with the help of a higher power it could be possible.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I didn't see a light at the end of my tunnel.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1anika_s_nde.html