{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1angelo_g_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Angelo G Probable NDE 5460","mylang":"de"}
          	        Angelo G Probable NDE 5460  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Angelo G Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3568 Angelo G Probable NDE 5460  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My experience occurred between February 19 and 24, 2010 and I believe it is a subject for researchers. Everything I experienced on the night of February 24th is almost impossible to describe in words.  I returned from the experience with a multitude of memories and knowledge and that is why I find it hard to describe it in detail. 

I will try to describe my extraordinary experience as follows:

I was in hospital undergoing surgery on my myocardium for the application of four bypasses.

I know that what I experienced holds so much complex meaning. We existed before creation and by that, I mean before the universe and life as we know it. 

Each time I closed my eyes during the 6 days after my surgery I had these extraordinary experiences, which I can only call Extraordinary with capital E. I believe I experienced what happens between God our Father and all of life. All of life is generated (not created) by Him, in His image and likeness, with full freedom of will and being. There are no limitations or distinctions between any living things, in any way, because everything is an expression and expansive extension of God our Father Himself. 

These extraordinary experiences started when I suddenly fell into a big sense of ‘peace’. I felt very alive and with great awareness (similar to a deep meditation). I was surrounded (like being hugged) by a huge indescribable love that made me feel like I was in total happiness. It felt like a 'fatherly love' and I was so safe and filled with joy at its extraordinary presence, the likes of which I had never experienced before. I was traveling, flying, above all creation and I was speaking with God our Father as if we had been keeping the conversation going forever. He was leading me and addressing me in a deep, warm voice and I was feeling his immense fatherly love.

He asked me lovingly to make a choice, 'Son, look. Choose where you want to go'. This question was about my next life experience and he was referring to everything that was below us. I had a strong feeling that there was a lot more to see before I could make a choice but I immediately answered 'No, Father. I do not want to go. I want to go back. I want to go back because of Felicia. She would suffer so much if I did not return. She does not deserve so much suffering! When I get back I want to create the 'Union of All religions of the Lord God our Father', so I could stop the nonsense and divisions forever. This has been the real cause of all of the ills in whole of humanity. What do you say Father? I do not think it can be that difficult to unmask the non-truths, omissions, harmful and false interpretations of various teachings that have made mankind feel fearful and dominated. I can do it. There is nothing else that I can do.’  

At this point God our Father said to me ‘Do you know what beloved means? Beloved is the person who asks and dedicates his or her life to help people in their awakening. To help them remember and know they are ALL generated from me'. 

Suddenly, I found myself in a completely different place, in front of a great multitude of deceased people who were yelling at me and accusing me of many things ‘The great trial starts in the Heavenly Court’, etc. I knew however that there is no such thing as ‘The Great Trial’ because God our Father never judges us. He set us free, gave us our free will and all of himself, always and to everyone, with no divisions. Any divisions we experience in life are man-made. 

I experienced another moment of great presence, expansion of consciousness and deep peace and felt embraced by the immense paternal love, similar to that already described as follows:

Suddenly, I found myself in absolute darkness with no external reference points and that was very frightening for me because I always knew that during the other experiences I was not alone. In this dark place however, I was without any inner hold. This made me feel a deep sense of hopelessness and absolute loneliness. It was as if there was nothing and nothing had ever existed. What I felt was akin to a weak and precarious candle flame that would go out at any moment. After a while of feeling that way, I began to recall a distant memory. There was someone or something that had always helped me, but I could not quite grasp what it was.  After long time in this terrible state, I began to feel like a microscopic organism and experienced some very slight movements. I saw nothing because I was still in absolute darkness. The suffering was dreadful and I cannot associate it with anything that I have ever experienced at any time in my life. 

I became desperate to remember that single ‘thing’ I was aware could save me from this immeasurable pain. Slowly I felt that I had a larger body and was living underground in the earth from which I was able to nourish myself. More time passed and I began to feel like I wanted to move in the ground, like a little worm. I felt the fear of being eaten at every millimeter of movement in the ground. Then I began to feel bigger, a worm that moved a bit more freely in small tunnels, but always with the fear of being eaten at the slightest movement. Then I started to feel like a small animal with paws and caught the occasional weak glow of light but still felt constantly afraid of being eaten and still searching inwardly for that something that could save me. I was moving, little by little, I was all animals (fish, reptiles, birds, mammals) becoming more and more evolved. I was accompanied by the fear of being eaten and the feeling that there was that something that could save me from this terrible insecurity, fear and suffering. 

I finally began to experience something clearer in my mind. There was a distant memory that I always used to talk to the extremely ‘Great One’. There I would find my only salvation. I had no idea who he was. Then, I had a human body and even though I was less fearful, a strong sense of loneliness and insecurity remained in me. My attention was focused more and more upon remembering who had always helped me and I still did not have the slightest what it was. Then I suddenly found myself stammering in my mind '' FA FA FA FA….THER! ….FATHER! Yes!!! FATHER!!!! YES!  He was always close to me and helped me! By focusing on the meaning of that word, I slowly began to remember who he was and how much, in my previous life, I had gravitated towards him and understood now how much security, help and love he had always given to me in everything I had done. I became sure of everything an increasing need for Him. I kept repeating mentally ‘FATHER! FATHER! FATHER!’ I then started to experience that my Father is also the Father of ALL!  I began to sense Him as the ‘Lord God Our Father’ and I repeated in my mind increasingly ‘LORD GOD OUR FATHER.’

After a while, I found myself at the time immediately before the start of this unimaginable and amazing journey. I felt the great presence, expansion of consciousness, awareness, deep peace and I was hugged by that immense paternal love. 

God our Father said to me: ‘My Son, I wanted you to directly experience the terrible conditions in which those who 'are not' live and even make you live (be) different forms of life on earth.'

Here I stop. It is very difficult for me to continue other than to tell you that my experience was extraordinary in those six days.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  19 ... 24 - Febbraio  2010

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related  Come sopra.  Other Intarvento sul miocardio per l'applicazione di 4 baipass.   Durata dell'operazione 7 ore (previste 5).  Il  mio cuore era assolutamente fermo inquanto scollegato dal mio sistema nervoso per mezzo dell'applicazione di due elettrodi.  Surgery on my myocardium for the application of four bypasses. The duration of the operation 7 hours (expected 5). My heart was completely inactive as disconnected from my nervous system through the application of two electrodes.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Since I had my eyes open, I was completely aware of everything that happened in the room. The perception of my physical field of vision was much more beyond my body. I felt as if I were at the center of a sphere of energy/consciousness, the diameter being about 2/2.5m – that was the complete me! When my eyes were closed, I was living in a spiritual level

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Difficult to explain.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Particularly within the first few hours after I regained consciousness after surgery, I saw some people in my field of vision that appeared to have no facial skin. This may have been because they had a lower energy vibration than I had been experiencing. As the days passed by things got back to normal.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    In the first few hours after I woke up I could hear a loud and constant sound that I cannot describe. It was not an annoying noise but rather a reassuring one and it was always/only there when I had my eyes open. When it became weaker/subtler, it seemed to be coming from upstairs. It was like a ‘HOOOOM’ or ‘ROOOOM’ sound, that it is the only way I can describe it. As the days passed, it became weaker until disappearing completely on the 5th or 6th day.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No     There were crowds of people just like us but I understood clearly sensation that they did not have physical bodies. They cursed and gestured as crowds do, protesting or cheering. Among them, I knew only two people and one of them has been deceased for a few years.   Three beings stood by on one occasion. They were hooded, obscure dark figures with two eyes (no face) in a V-shaped brown / faded orange color that gave me the impression of a weak candle flame and without any energy. When I had my eyes closed, they approached my bed with a bewitching attitude and inaudible wheezing voice, their arms together and head down as monks often stand.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Per ora mi fermo qui.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       They were very different and diverse depending on which part of the experience I was going through at the time.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Universalista.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Cosmico/universalista.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No I understand a lot more about other people, the reason behind their beliefs, their fears, weaknesses, situations and suffering.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Except for the description of the state of completeness, awareness, happiness, joy, love that I experienced and heard.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of them.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    With some people after a few days as soon as it was possible.   After a few months, I even shared it with some priests of different religions.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   . I had read something, but not in depth.  I am sure that did not influence my experience in any way.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I would like that very much but it takes a long time. I only want to do this if there is genuine interest in it.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1angelo_g_probable_nde.html