{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1angela_sde.html","mytitle":"Angela SDE 22764","mylang":"de"}
          	        Angela SDE 22764  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Angela SDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Shared Death Experience  			3190 Angela SDE 22764  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My female boxer, RoxyMoxy had lymphoma, throat cancer.  We took her to a nice doctor, a specialist, for chemo-therapy. After months of treatment, Roxy failed to get better.  She was extremely ill and suffering terribly.  It was difficult, but the only decision my husband and I could reach was to let her go and end her pain and misery.  I took her back to her primary doctor's office. She was very weak and so sick. He's an awesome holy man from India, her regular veterinarian. He put her up on the exam table and then gave her a shot of medicine to relax her. He left the room and said he would return is a few minutes to give her the next shot that would put her to sleep.  But, about 5 minutes went by and RoxyMoxy was still very alert (*wide awake). She was present time conscience. The first shot did not make her relax at all. In a few more minutes, the doctor returned and gave her the deadly injection. As he was injecting the needle and delivering the shot I felt Roxy's spirit leave her body and to my surprise I left with her, in no time at all I had traveled so far from where I was standing on earth and had traveled to another galaxy light years away. But, then as if no time at all had passed I was standing back at the exam table with the doctor and my dog's body. Her spirit had just traveled from our world to the next.  Do all dogs go to Heaven? YES guaranteed, that is what I learned. The experience changed my life; I became a vegetarian, so I would daily remember the beauty of my puppy.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  approx 2005

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    My dog had to be put to sleep due to cancer.  Clinical death death of my dog, but not life-threatening to me. My dog was being put to sleep in the Veterinarian's office.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I felt very conscious but gone from my body a feeling of going and coming back.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Clear, present, and alert. Much like traveling.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Space and time were altered.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Upward mobility and far distant heavens.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Wow! Really surprised!

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No   It just happened.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   mostly Christian back ground some eastern

What is your religion now?       Moderate   same

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     All dogs really do go to heaven, I didn't know for sure before this event, or at least I never really thought about it.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was a unique  experience for me, like teleportation / time space travel.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It was all good.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Only a few, it isn't a story I think most would be able to relate to.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Thank you for letting me share.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1angela_sde.html