{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1angela_m_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Angela M Possible NDE 7663","mylang":"de"}
          	        Angela M Possible NDE 7663  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Angela M Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			3933 Angela M Possible NDE 7663  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					MY DEATH

I glanced up on the large clock on the wall beside me. 02.45. I must have dozed off.

Days and nights seemed to blend into each other as my need for sleep grew more and more inevitable. Pain had become my only friend. I really had no expectations left of recovery. I was done. Out of sheer exhaustion, I whispered, 'Father, I can't do this anymore.' In my heart, I made this final exclamation to both, God and my earthly father.  I closed my eyes and sunk into a deep sleep. 

For a long time it felt as though I was floating. The pain started to release its grip on my weary body. 'Thank you God', I whispered as I drifted away on the bed of painlessness. Finally, I was free.  The dark comfortable sleep slowly began to release its grip on my consciousness and images started to form inside mind’s eye.  They were pleasant, soothing images of tranquil environments. I saw small waves gently caress a shore and a small yellow bird sitting on the branches of a beautiful blooming pine tree.  

Suddenly, I found myself standing amidst the site of some old ruins of a house in a peaceful country side.  It appeared to be mid-afternoon. The cloudless sky was light blue in color. There was no sun, but the light seemed to be coming from everywhere at once. Everything was quiet. 'How utterly beautiful!' I thought to myself.  It dawned on me that I had never seen ruins this perfectly shaped before. Usually ruins would be torn by time and weather, cracking and falling apart by the touch of a hand.  But this place looked as if it had been constructed to appear just like ruins of an old house would look, only in perfect condition.  I realized, that these perfectly shaped ruins were a symbol of my life. Here, imperfectness was utterly perfect in its own shape and form. My life, as ruined as it may seem to be in my own perception, was no less than perfect.  This perfect imperfection had a divine purpose. I had constructed these ruins in order to experience myself as ruined. 

It dawned on me that I was not defined by my illness. I was not the pain and the agony that derived from my illness.  I knew that I was not the needy person who had become totally dependent upon others to live and function.  

I looked down and realized that I was wearing a beautiful, flawless etheric body. I was not on Earth anymore; but in an Earthly environment that was slightly above the physical Earth. I was in a state where I was still very much my own personality, in my own mind, but protected by a non-physical environment.  

There were fifteen other people accompanying me at the site. 'Ah, at least I am not alone at feeling so miserable,' I thought to myself. At the far end of the ruins, a woman was preparing a lecture. She seemed to be organizing her paperwork on a table placed in front of her. It felt as if we were all here to learn how to die.  What a great idea. Learning how to die was just what I needed when being so utterly lost with regard to the whole business of living and of dying. Still, there was something profoundly familiar about the whole situation. I had a feeling that I had done this a hundred times before. I felt completely comfortable being here.



For a moment, with my perception enhanced, I was able to view a large part of the European continent all at once. I noticed that there were portals all across the Earth. They were shaped like large transparent circles and they were popping up all over. I knew that these portals were here to let people travel from the physical life to the spirit life and from the spirit life, back to Earth. I knew that when we go through the transition of death that we go through these portals. When we are about to be born to the Earth, these portals are the gates to new life.

A calming voice telepathically filled my mind, 'Angela, close your eyes, relax and accept it.'  I was grabbed firmly by an invisible force and pulled towards a small crack in one of the ruin walls. I was afraid that the size of my body would be too large to squeeze through that tiny space.  But the voice reminded me again to, 'Close your eyes, relax and accept what is happening.' I obeyed and with a feeling of being transported through that tiny space, I found myself on the other side of the wall. Not only on the other side of the wall but into a completely new world.

Instantly, I found myself soaring through the air like a majestic bird, while taking in the utter magnificence of the landscape unfolding before me. I was awestruck! The scenery reminded of images I had seen from Scotland or Ireland, after a long heavy rainfall. The lush, green fields beamed at me in colors of deep green radiance.  I could see valleys and clusters of trees to my left and little cozy huts situated in the slopes. Everything was so clean and so perfect. I knew that every little straw of grass was perfectly shaped, just like a painting from an old master. Every little flower petal was designed as though from the shape of the most heartfelt song. There was no tear anywhere; no decay whatsoever.  I wondered, 'How could something be this exquisitely perfect?'  I could not help but notice the profound happiness present throughout my whole being. I felt so light, so magnificently happy, and so utterly free of earthly worries.  I was beaming with pure joy.  My sense of adventure filled my entire being and I knew that this was who I really am. There were no burdens: There was no sadness. I had no recollection of earthly struggles and there was no illness. I was completely stripped of having to do, having to say, or having to have an opinion about anything at all. I existed in the only moment that ever mattered.  It was the eternal moment of now, the eternal flow of life. I existed in profound peace.

I was not aware that I had just arrived here from Earth. I was not even aware that I was a mother! In this world, I merely existed as the pure soul that I was. I could not recall ever having felt more complete. I needed no one, and no one needed me; and that was just an unchangeable fact. Actually, I had no thought about anything other than being who I was and experiencing that which lay before me at this very moment in joyful anticipation.  I landed on one of the hills situated in the 'far north' of the landscape. Yellow and white flowers covered the ground underneath me. Each and every one of the mesmerizing flowers beamed like little suns.  Even though I seemed to be standing right on top of them, I did not seem to squash any one of them. 

Then, I realized that I did not have a body! My flawless, etheric body was now gone.  I was pure consciousness.  Once more, I was sucked back towards the crack in the ruins. This time however, I seemed to instinctively know what to do.  I closed my eyes, relaxed, and accepted the fact that I was being pulled through the crack.  

I found myself back by the ruins with the people and the lecturer, only to be pulled back through the same crack once more.  'Hey, I'm getting pretty good at this,' I chuckled to myself as I landed on the very same hill as I had left just moments ago. I felt immensely happy, as if I was made of pure bliss.  

Again, I was soaring over the breathtaking landscape. Behind me, steep mountains were raging high into the clear air. Before me, the green valley lay lush and inviting. I seemed to have a 360-degree view of everything that was happening around me. I was perfectly aware of what was going on at all angles.  Out of nowhere, a thought about my mum and dad popped into my mind. As soon as I had the thought, I saw my parents walk towards me from a short distance to my right. My heart beamed with love towards the two people who had given me life. In amazement, I remembered thinking, 'Hey, why are my parents here when they are still very much alive on Earth?'  I realized that my parents existed in both places at once.  The only thing needed for me to meet them here in this state of existence was a thought of love. I was gravely surprised, if not stunned by this revelation. I concluded that we are never alone wherever we are, because wherever we are, we are here, there, and everywhere all at once. I recognized that the immenseness of our Soul allows us to be everywhere at the same time and that all of us share this Soul. I realized that the part of my parents presently residing on Earth was not the entire part of this soul, but merely a small fragment.  Only the moment that existed was right now, which indeed allowed everything to be, right at this moment.

'You are so beautiful, mum,' I whispered as my mother approached me.  She smiled at me as pure love and acceptance flowed from her eyes. As I kept thinking about how beautiful she was appearing in front of me, she instantly grew more and more beautiful, as if her enhancing beauty was a direct response to my thoughts about her.  My mother, whom I knew to be a sweet elderly lady at the age of seventy back on Earth, wrinkles and all, was now standing before me, looking like a gorgeous twenty year old! Her beauty was beyond compare! I had never seen anything like it!

My dear father was standing a few steps behind her in the background. My love for him was very real.  Still, the love I felt for my mother was overshadowing everything. I knew that whom and what I expressed my love for, would be instantly drawn to me and enhanced tenfold.  I was utterly content with being in this state of pure existence. I had no notion that I had left everything behind and that I was dying from the physical world. I was again soaring across the landscape feeling completely at one with the scenery. In this ultimate reality, I was magnificently happy, profoundly peaceful, and completely free. I was pure consciousness, a spontaneous exercise in creativity.  

Feeling satisfied with the soaring, I landed on the flower covered hill again. A desire to progress in my experience of this moment, merged from within. I was wondering what to experience next. Actually, there was no time to ponder anything.  At the moment a thought formed about experiencing something new, the experience would unfold before me. 

Again, it was an experience I was not prepared for.  I was presented with a terrifying sight that produced a feeling that literally rattled my whole being. I tried to cover my eyes to avoid looking at what had just unfolded before me, but to no avail.   At my right, a few feet away, stood something that resembled a demon. It was not your average demon, but one made of cardboard. It looked absolutely ridiculous! I knew that whatever I was seeing was not real in the sense of being an individual consciousness. It was a product of my own mind. One part of me wanted to laugh at it; another part of me however wanted to scream in terror. I had never imagined a demon made of cardboard before, but it indeed had a terrifying effect on me.  'So, you thought it was that easy, huh?' the demon snarled, as it came bouncing towards me.   My mind frantically tried to remember one of the prayers I had learned at Sunday school to make the demon go away. After all, that was what I had heard priests do when they expel evil from people, 'Dear Father, you who are in Heaven, your name be holy....!' Peeking through my fingers again, I saw the demon approach closer and closer, seemingly unaffected by my half-hearted effort of praying.

'It doesn’t work!' I panicked and screamed with all my might, 'GOD, PLEASE HELP ME!'

Suddenly, my body shook awake on the mattress on the living room floor. 

My mind flooded with the recollection of what I had just experienced in the afterlife.  I burst into uncontrollable sobbing.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  2010

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness. Allergic Reaction.    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening.   Gradual degeneration of physical body due to genetic illness that created an immune reaction to food, medication, and exposure.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I seemed to know things like never before and coming from a source of wisdom.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Both in the NDE and after returning

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no time. It felt like forever.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was very much enhanced, clear and radiant

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Hearing was instant, telepathic and through feelings

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Unknown people from Earth who were there to learn how to die

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Daylight everywhere, but no visible sun

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     A totally new world I'd never been before

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, calm, freedom, love, excitement, serenity, understanding

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I think my experience was directly aimed at my own emotional self; especially fear and despair and how it created illness.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No     At a point I was aware that my parents were alive on Earth, yet still there with me.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   I just believed in a God somewhere.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I found that the greatest resemblance to truth is the Essene Path

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Native American religion   The Essene Path

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I learned that what we learn through religion is merely unclear bits and peaces of the ultimate truth

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Going from blaming others or God for misfortunes, to knowing it's all up to me. I create this.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   A voice that was within and part of me but also separate from me.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I knew that I had died many times, and lived many times and that the out of physical state was more normal and pleasant than the physical state

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Read the NDE

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     A voice, part of me yet still separate in consciousness.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   My NDE has changed my life completely. I seem to be able to tap into the peace and joy I felt and receive wisdom from an inner source through meditation

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     That we create ourselves and that our intentions (attitudes/emotions) are the means to which we do

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     There is definitely life after death. Death is just as smooth as falling asleep.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     Difficulties and harships are strictly an earthly thing. Something we are here to experience.It does not exist the same way out of body

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     That love will find you wherever you are. My parents were in this new world with me, even though they were alive on Earth. And that the only thing neccessary was a thought of love to bring us together.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I love more, appreciate more, I value life, I work consciously with my fears and emotions. I have a greater understanding. I seek to be at peace in whatever situation.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I lacked eathly words to describe the experience.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     More wisdom, instant knowing, precognition,

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    5 yrs

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   I had a period where I experienced very vivid dreams, understanding afterwards that they too may have been NDE's

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   I am able to seek and achieve the same feelings at will through meditation      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1angela_m_possible_nde.html