{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1angela_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Angela K NDE 166","mylang":"de"}
          	        Angela K NDE 166  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Angela K NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1443 Angela K NDE 166  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					When I was just three years old I drowned in a pool behind my house. When my mother found me, I was floating face down in the water. My father who said that a voice told him to hold me upside down to get the water out resuscitated me. This worked and I began to breathe again. I spent a little time at a hospital and later told my father of the events.

I first told him that I wanted to go to the church, the church that was being built. I said it wasn't finished yet. After questioning me some more, I told him that two angels held my arms and took me up into the sky. I told him that there were people building a church out of gold bricks and that they were waving at me. I turned and saw two thrones with two beings sitting in them. Their faces were clouded but one of them told me that 'it wasn't my time yet'. I insisted that I wanted to stay and he told me that I had to go back to my mom and dad. Then I told him that I saw a little girl (which was me) and then it was over. I apparently went back into my body. I remember all of these details to this day.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1981

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  drowning  Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Fell into pool while unattended and drowned.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Explained above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       One hundred percent conscious.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I was in a completely different dimension.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Heaven seemed to be without sound and full of emotion. The only voice I heard was that of God or Jesus.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The men and women building the church who waved to me.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Unbelievably bright warm yellow light.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Explained above.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Joy, happiness, belonging.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I felt that I was in the company of kindness that I did not want to leave, even if it meant leaving my parents.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was told by God or Jesus that I had to go back to my parents, I had no choice in the matter regardless of my protest.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I knew that there was a heaven because I had seen it with my own eyes. I have a strong belief in God.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Dreams that come true the next day and knowing information about strangers.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best part was that I had the experience of meeting God and Jesus but the worst part of it was that my mother suffered emotional trauma because she felt responsible for my drowning.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    There was a general feeling of disbelief when I was younger yet when I got a little older people were amazed and believed in me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1angela_k_nde.html