{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1angela_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Angela G NDE 8232","mylang":"de"}
          	        Angela G NDE 8232  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Angela G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						4305 Angela G NDE 8232  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in the hot tub when I got dizzy. So I got out of the hot tub. There were five other women there. I reached for my pants and went into a dream while standing up.
  				    
  				    I was in the presence of a beautiful woman.  I felt happy to be with her. We were moving forward.  The sky was a solid blue and the trees were green.  I couldn't see the trunks of the trees. We were moving toward the sun, which was a beautiful, bright, and warm light.
  				    
  There was music in the background like from a speaker playing. I heard, the song, 'Let's hear it for the boys.'    We were happy and laughing. I heard something from behind us. I turned and heard my best friend saying my name. I turned to the woman and asked, 'Why is Shelly looking for me?'  She turned towards me smiled.

   I came back. My friends told me that I was unresponsive, they couldn't feel  my pulse, and my eyes were open the whole time.

Background Information:

Gender:      Female

Date NDE Occurred:        June 2016

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes.    Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   I went unconscious while  standing up.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes.    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   I felt more warmth, happiness, and joy.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As we were moving forward. I felt the warmth of the sun and I felt content.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My awareness.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard my sister calling my name at first. I can't remember that part as well as the part where I was floating forward.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     She was my best friend's aunt.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I thought it was the sun but we were moving towards it. It was massive and not round.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place.     As stated the trees were different. The sky was pure blue.  I couldn't see what we were moving forward in  but it felt like a car that we didn't have to steer or drive. It moved on its own.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt peace, happy, and calm.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will.     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Do not know.   Spiritual.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Do not know.   Spiritual and confused.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     It confirmed my belief in the afterlife.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes.     I now know there is something  after death.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin.   She was beautiful and had  long hair with gold tips. I couldn't see her eyes but she had a thin nose, a small upper lip and full bottom lip.  We laughed a lot. She had a beautiful smile.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I moderately fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain.     I've always been a feeler.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I heard my sister's name. I felt nothing physical but heard my best friend.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes.    Who ever will listen.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I've read and heard stuff over the years

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     I know what I saw what I felt what I heard.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     It was a message. I just don't understand.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       It is pretty good          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1angela_g_nde.html