{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1822__ashmand___ptolemys_tetrabiblos.pdf","mytitle":"Ptolemys Tetrabiblos","mylang":"de"}
PTOLEMY’S \TETRABIBLOS,
0R
quannnan'n'rs: ‘
BEING
FOUR BOOKS
0|“ 1'!!!
q INFLUENCE OF .THE STARS.
\
NEWLY TRANSLATED FROM THE GREEK PARAPHRASE 0F PROCLUS.
_ wrm
A PREFACE, EXPLANATORY NOTES,
‘ Inn)
$n ﬁppmbfx,
CONTAINING ‘
EXTRACTS FROM THE ALMAGEST OF PTOLEMY,
E And the whole of his
CENTILOQUY';
together with r ‘
A short Notice qfMr. Ranger’s Zodiqcal Planisphere,
AND AN zxrunnonv run.
BY J. M. ASHMAND.
“ Ye stars, which are the poetry of Heaven!
__
_-_.
._,.
,_'_._
“ If, in your bright leaves, we would read the fate
‘ “ _0f men and empires,--’tis to be forgiven.”
F f - LORD BYRON.
a:
Mutton :
PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY DAVIS 'AND Enzcxso‘v,
mum in ﬁriemiﬂc mm, '
No. 17, St. Martin’s-le-Grand, Newgate Street.
'1822.
a
n;- _
TO THE
AUTHOR OF' “ WA VERLEY,”
THIS TRANSLATION
OF A
WORK CONTAINING THE BEST ACCREDITED PRINCIPLES _
OF
Q501qugp
1s DEDICATED;
With the most profoundadmiration ofhis unrivalled Talents,
IIIXCH COULD ALONE HAY! lZSTOKED
INTEREST TO THE SPECULATIONS
0? Atl_
AN'I‘IQUATEI) SCIENCE“
m .<1
v .r“ W
glint
-+§+— ,
mt.
!
THE use recently made of Astrology in the hoetical machinery ofcertain
works of genius (which are of the highest popularity, and above all praise),
seems to have excited in the world at large a desire to learn something of Q
the mysteries of that science which has, in all former ages, if not in these
days, more or less engaged reverence and usurped belief. The apparent
existence of such a general desire has caused the completion of‘ the following
Translation, and its presentation to the public; although it was originally
undertaken only in part, and merely to satisfy two or three individuals of the
grounds on which the now neglected doctrines of Astrology had so long and
50 fully maintained credit.
can: of moments.
‘_
B00K I.
cn‘r. ms
1. mm - - t' - - . _ 1
II. Knowledge on? be acguire'd by Astronomy to acertain Extent 2
III. That Pfescience is use ul - - 11
IV. The Inﬂuences of the Planetary Orbs - - - 19
V. Beneﬁcs and Maleﬁcs - - - - -‘ 2l
VI. Masculine and Feminine - - - - i'bid.
VII. 'Diurnal and Nocturnal - - - - - 22
'VIII. The Inﬂuence of Position with regard to the Sun - 23
IX. The Inﬂuence of the ﬁxed Stars - - - 24
X. Constellations North of the Zodiac - - - ' 28
XI. Constellations South of the Zodiac - - - 30
XII. The Annual seasons _ - k '- - - - BI
XIII. The Inﬂuence of the Four Angles _ ~ - - 32
XIV. Tropical, Equinoctial,.Fixed, and Bico poreal‘Signs - 34
XV. Masculine and Feminine Signs - - - - 35
‘XVI. Mutual Conﬁgurations of the Signs - - ‘- 86
vXVII. Signs commanding iirid obeying - - - 39
XVIII. Signs be'holding each other, and'of equal Power - ibid.
XIX. ‘Signs inconjunet - - - - . - 40
XX. Houses of the Planets - _ ‘- - - 41
XXI. The Triplicities - - - - - v- 48
XXII. Exaltations - - - - ' -' 45
XXIII. The Disposition of the Terms - - s h 47
XXIV. The Terms (according to Ptolemy) - - — 51
XXV. The Places and Degrees of every Planet - 58
XXVI. Faces, Chariots", and other similar Attributes of the Planet! 54
XXVII. Application, Separation, and other Faculties. - 55
1 I
BOOK II.
I. General-Division of the Subject - - - 58
II. Peculiarities observable throughOut every entire Climate 60
III. The Familiarity of the Regions of the Earth with the Tri
plicities and the Planets - - - - 62
'IV. The Familiarity of the Regions of the Earth with the
_ ' ﬁxed Stars - - - - - 76
“V. Mode of particular Prediction-in Eclipses - - ibid.
VI. The Regions or Countries to be considered as liable to be
_v_ comprehended in the Event - - - 77
‘ VII. The Time and Period of the Event - e ‘ ' - 78
VIII. The Genus, Class, or Kind, liable to be affected - 80
IX. The Quality and Nature of the Effect - - " ' - 84
X. Colours in Eclipses, Comets, and similar Phenomena -
XI. The New Moon of the Year - - ~
. CONTENTS.
can.
XII. The particular Natures of the Signs by which the different
Constitutions of the Atmosphere are produced -
XIII. Mode of Consideration for particular Constitutions of the
Atmosphere - - - - -
XIV. The signiﬁcation of Meteors - - ..
FAG]
96
- 100
BOOK III.
I. Proem - - 1- - - _ _
II. The Conception, and the Parturition, or Birth; by which
104
latter Event the Animal quits the Womb, and assumes
another State of Existence - _ _ - 106
III. The Degree ascending - - - - _ 108
IV. Distribution of the Doctrine of Nativities - - II!
V. The Parents -_ - - _ _ _ 114
VI. Brothers and Sisters - - - - - 119
VII. Male or Female . - - _ - 12]
VIII. Twins - - - - _ _ _ 122
IX. Monstrous or defective Births - - - - 125
X. Children not reared - - - - _ 126
XI. The Duration of Life - - - - _ 129
XII. The Prorogatory Places - - 13o
XIII. The Number of Prorogators, and also the Part of Fortune 131
XIV. Number of the Modes of Prorogation - - _
XV. Exempliﬁcation - - . - - _ 14]
XVI. The Form and Temperament of the Body - .. 143
XVII. The Hurts, Injuries, and Diseases of the Body - 1-52
XVIII. The Quality of the Mind - - - - 153
XIX. The Diseases of the Mind - - - - 168
I
‘ BOOK IV.
I. Proem - - - - - I - 172
II. The Fortune of Wealth - - - _. - ibid_
III. The Fortune of Rank - - - - _ 174
IV. The Quality of Employment - - - .. 176
V. Marriage - - .. - _ _ 182
VI. Children - . - - - - - 139
VII. Friends and Enemies - - - ~ _ 191
VIII. Travelling ~ - - . - _ 195
IX. The Kind of Death - - - - - 197 i
X. The Periodical Divisions of Time - - - 902
APPENDIX.
No. I. Almagest, Book viii, Chap. 4 - - _ - 212
11. Extract from the Almagest, Book ii, Chap. 9 ~ - _ 217
Table of Latitudes, from the Almagest - - 222
Extract from the Table of Ascensiona, in the Almagest 223
III. Ptolemy’s Centiloquy - - - - - 224
IV. The Zodiacal Planisphere, and plate - - 236
CORRIGENDA ET ADDENDA.
+ ~
Page 5, line 24, for “ last mentioned,” read “ of the seasons.”
—— 8, the following addition should be made to the note‘; viz.—
Cicero, in cap. 20, lib. 2, De Nat. Deor. also alludes to
another great year, as being completed on the return of
' the Sun, Moon, and the ﬁve planets, to some original con
ﬁguration, “ inter se, confectis omm'um spatii: ;” and of that
revolution he says, “ qua: quam longa sit, magna quastio
“ est; esse vero certain et deﬁnitam, necesse est." Again,
in writing of Hortensius, he says, “ ls est magnus et
“ verus annns, quo eadem positio caeli siderumque gum cdm
“ maximé est, rursum existet; isque annus horum, quos
“ vocamus, annorum x11. Mmcccuv; complectitur.” But
in the “ Somnium Scipionis" his words are, “ tum signis
“ omnibus ad idem principium stelh'sque revocatis, expletum
“ annum habeto.” It thus appears, that of three diﬂ'erent'
cycles or periods, each was considered by Cicero as form
ing a great year, although that which he has contemplated
in Scipio’s Dream is the only one equivalent to the “ entire
“ return” of “all the heavenly bodies,”v adverted to by
Ptolemy. . ' y __
-—- 27. In corroboration of the conjecture hazarded in the note,v '
as to the etymology of Antares, it may be observed, that
an authentic word, Anteros, the name of a deity in alliance
with Cupid, has been similarly compounded: viz. from,
~ 4174 pro, and 11g»; C‘upillo. I
-—- 40, line’7 of the notes, for “ new [aspects called,” read “- new
i “ aspects [called.” .
-—— 41, line 19 of the note, for “ Apology,” read “ Astrological
“ Discourse.” I ‘
'-_-- 43, line 15, for “is nearest,” read “is placed nearest."
--— 57, line 10, for “ holds,” read “ hold.”
-—— 61, line 2, for “ who are here,” read “ who (as natives ofthese
countries) are.”
-——- 62, line 11, for “ domesticated,” read “domiciliated.”
---- 63, line 18, for “ The four quadrants,” read “Of the four quad
rants.”
—-——- 68. The note requires the following addition t—It seems,how
ever, that the Jews were charged with atheism by other
coamcnnna n'r ADDENDA (continued)
writers also, and on account of their neglect of the false
gods of the heathens; viz. “falsorum deorum neglectu: .
“ quam eandern causam etiam Judaeis maledicendi Taci
“ tus habuit, et Plinius Major, cui Judaei dicuntur gem
“ contumelid numinum insignis." See Clark’s Notes to
Grotius do Verit. Relig. Christ. Lib. 2, § 2.
Page 69, in note, for “ copies,” read “ editions." '
—— 71, line 5, for “ These females shun the addresses ofmen, as
the Amazons did of old," read "These females, like the
“ Amazons, shun the addresses of men.”
—- 81, line 2 of the notes, for “ copies,” read “ editions.”
—- 86, line 27, for “ and thrive,” read “ and will thrive ;” line 34,
for “ the world,” read “ mankind.”
—- 87, line 2, for “is,” read “are.”
--- 92, line 4, for “ their form,” read “ the form of the signs.”
-_- 94, line 4 of the notes, for “ copies,” read “translations.”
—- 9'1, line 6 of the note, for “Sunis,” read “ Sun is ;” line 8, for
“ 93," read “ 94.”
--— 98, line'21, for “Moons,” read “Moon.”
-—— 11]. The conjectural etymology of the word Animodar, ha
zarded in the note, is erroneous ; the word being evident
ly derived from the Greek my", ez'tralw.
—- 113, line 16, dele “of.”
--- 114-, chap. v, line 5, for “to,” read “with.”
‘-- 119, line 17 and 18, for “ indispensibly,” read “indispensably.”
“— 122,1 line 11, for “ indispensible," read “indispensable.”
-'—-- 143, line 1'1, for “ deséension from,” read “descension,from.”
-- 151. line 15, for “ not any,” read “none.”
-_-4 160, line 28 and 29, for “ energy the property,” read “ energy
“ the properties.” ‘
, —- 176, note, dale. “and the table annexed thereto."
_ 183, note ',for “copies,” read “editions.”
—- 189, line 2, for “contributes,” read “tends.”
—-- 208, line 21, for “ of whom acts," read “apting.”
—- 224, line 4, for “ now superseded,” read “now, in some'degree,
“ superseded.” 41
NB. By an inadvertence, the name of a city in Italy has been erro
neously quoted in the Preface, and in the noﬁs to the Tran
slation, as “ Perugio," instead of “ Perugia."
-_—_- ,__. .
Minamome
“OF a’ll sciences, whether true or false, which have at
:any time engaged the attention of the world, there {is
mot one of which the real or assumed principles are less
generally known, in the present age, than those of[As
trology. The whole doctrine of this science is com
vmonly understood to have been completely overturned;
:and, of late, people seem to have satisﬁed themselves
'with merely knowing the'iniportof its name. Such con
‘tented ignorance, in persons, too, snﬂicientlyinformed
in other respects, is the more ecrtraordinory,s‘inoe Astro
logy has sustained a most conspicuous part throughout
the history of the world, even until days comparatively
recent. In the East, where itﬁrs't arose, at a periodof
"very remote antiquity", and whence it came to subjugate
the intellect of Europe, itstillevon nowholds sway. iln
* Sir Isaac Newton has the following remarks in regard to the
' 'origin of Astrology :—-“ After the study of Astronomy was set on
“ foot for the use of navigation, and the Egyptians, by the heliacsl
" risings and settings of the stars, had determined the length of the
"‘ solar year of 365 days, and by otherobservations had ﬁxed the
“ solstices, and formed the ﬁxed stars into'asterisms, all which was
‘ “ done in the reigns of Ammon,'Sesac, Orus, and Memnon,” (about
:1000 years before Christ), “ it may be presumed that they continued
' “ to observe themotions of the planets, for they called them after the
~ “ names of theirgods; and Nechepsos, or Nicepsos, King of.Sais,”
3 [77.2 B. 0;] “ by the assistance of Petosiris,-.a:priest of Egypt,,in..
vi'll.
Vi PREFACE.
Europe, and in every part of the world where learning
had “ impress’d the human soil,” Astrology reigned su
preme until the middle of the 17th century. It entered
“ vented astrology, grounding it upon the aspects of the planets, and
“ the qualities of the men and women to whom they were dedi
" cated* ;‘ and in the beginning of the reign of Nabonassar, King of
“ Babylon, about which time the JEthiopians, under Sabacon, invaded
“ Egypt," [751 B. (3.] “those Egyptians who ﬂed from him to Ba.—
“ bylon, carried thither the Egyptian year of 365 days, and the study
“ of astronomy and astrology, and founded the zera of Nabonassar,
“ dating it from the ﬁrst year of that king's reign” [747 B. C.], “ and
" beginning-the year on the same day with the Egyptians for the
“ sake of their calculations. So Diodorus: ‘they say that the Chal
“ ‘ dwans in Babylon, being colonies of the .Enytians, became famous
“ ‘fm' astrology, having learned itfrom the priests of Egypt] ”-—New
ton’s Chronology, pp. v251, 252.
. Again, in p. 327: “ The practice of observing the stars began in
“ Egypt in the days of Ammon, as above, ameas propagated from
“ thence, in the reign of his son Sesac, into Afric, Europe, and Asia,
“ by conquest; and then Atlas formed, the sphere of the Libyans”
[956 B. (1.], “ and 'Chiron that of the Greeks [939 B. C.]; and the
“ Chaldaeans also made a sphere of their own. But astrology was
“ invented in {Egypt by Nichepsos, or Necepsos, one of the Kings of
“ the Lower Egypt, and Petosiris his priest, a little before the days
“ of Sabacon, and propagated thence into Chaldaea, where Zoroaster,
‘y‘ the legislator of the Magi, met with it: so Paulinus.; '
“ ‘ Quique mngos docuit mysteria vana Neccpsos.’ ”
The arcana of Astrology constituted a main feature in the doctrines
of the Persian Magi ; and it further appears, by Newton’s Chronology,
p. 347, that Zoroaster (although the aera of his life has been (>er
neously assigned to various remotel- periods) lived in the reign of
* It is maintained by astrologers, that the planets, having been ob
served to produce certain eﬁ'ects, were consequently dedicated to the
several personages whose names they respectively bear.
PREFACE. vii
into the councils of princes, it guided the policy of' na
tions, and ruled the daily actions of individuals. All
this is attested by the records of every nation which has
Darius Hystaspis, about 520 B. C., and assisted llystaspcs, the father
of Darius, in reforming the Magi, of whom the said liystaspes was
Master. Newton adds, p. 352, that “ about the same time witths
“ taspes and Zoroaster, lived also Ostanes, another eminent Magus :
» “ Pliny places him under Darius Hystaspis, and Suidas makes him
“ the follower ofZoroaster: he came into Greece with Xerxes about
“ 480 B. C., and seems to be the Otaues of Herodotus. In his book,
“ called the Octateuchus, he taught the same doctrine of the Deity.
“ as Zoroaster.” .
Having quoted thus far from Newton, it seems proper to subjoin
the following extract from the “ Ancient Universal History :”——“In
“ the reign of Gushtasp” [the oriental name of Darius Hystaspis],
“ King of Persia, ﬂourished a celebrated astrologer, whose name was
“ Gjamasp, sumamed Al Hakim, or the wise- The most credible
“ writers say that he was the brother of King Gushtasp, and his con
“ ﬁdanfand chief minister. He is said to have predicted the coming
“ of the Messiah; and some treatises under his name are yet current
“ in the East. Dr. Thomas Hyde, in speaking of this philosopher,
“ cites a passage from a very ancient author, having before told us
“ that this author asserted there had been among the Persians ten
“ doctors of such consummate wisdom as the whole world could not
“ boast the like. He then gives the author’s words: ‘ Of these, the
“ ‘ sixth was Gjamasp, an astrologer, whowas counsellor to Hystas
“ ‘ pis. He is the author of a book intitled Judicia Gjamaspis, in
“ ‘ which is contained his judgement on the planetary conjunctions.
“ ‘ And therein he 'gave notice that Jesus should appear; that Mo
“ ‘hammed should be born; that the Magian religion should be
“ ‘ abolished. &c.; nor did any astrologer ever come up to him.’
" [E lib. Maj. apud Hyde]. Of this book there. is an Arabic ve'r
“ sion, the title of which runs thus; The Book of the Philosopher
“ Gjamasp, containing Judgements on the Grand Conjunctions of the
“ Planets, and on the Events produced by them. This version was
“_ made by Lali; the title he gave it in Arabic was Al Keranat, and
viii unit-sacs.
a history, and by none more fully than byﬂiose of Eng»
land. Yet, with these striking facts before their eyes,
the present generation seem never, until! now, to have
“ he published it A. D. 1280. In the preface of his version it is said
“ that, after the times of Zoroaster, or Zerdusht, reigned Gushtasp,
“ the son of Lohrasp', a very powerful prince; and that in his reign
“ ﬂourished in the city of Balch, 0n the borders of Cborassan, a most
“ excellent philosopher, whose name was Gjamasp, author of this
“' book; wherein is contained an account of all the great conjunctions.
“ of the planets which had happened before his time, and which were
“ to happen in succeeding ages; and wherein the appearances of '
“ new religions and the rise of new monarchios were exactly set
“down. This author, throughout his whole piece, styles Zerdnsht,or
“ Zoroaster, our Prophet. [D’Herbelot, Bibl. Orient. Art. Gjamasb.]
“ The notion ofpredicting the rise and progress of religions from the
“ grand conjunctionsof the planets, has been likewise propagated in
"' our western parts: Cardan was a bold assertor of this doctrine.
" The modern Persians are still great votaries of astrology, and al
“ though they distinguish between it and astronomy, they have but
“ one word to express astronomer and astrologer; viz. manegjim“
“ which is exactly equivalent to the Greek word Ifﬂm'h Of all the
“ provinces of Persia, Chomssan is the most famous for producing.
“ great men. in that art; and in Chorassao there is a little town called
“ Genabed, and in that town a certain family which,-for 6 or 700‘
" years past, has produced the most famous astrologers in Persia;
“ and‘the king’s astrologer is always either a native of Genabed, or
“ one brought up there. Sir John Chardin aﬂirms that the appoint
“ ments in his time for these sages amounted to six millions of French
“ lines per annum.—Albumaur of Balch (scholar oE'Alkendi,a Jew,
“ who was professor ofjudicial astrology at Bagdad, in the Caliphate
*This seems to be a mistake 0f the Arabian author, for Gushiasp—
was identical with Darius Hystaspis, and Lohrasp [otherwise Cy
aXares] Was father of Darius thelVledc, who was QVercome by Cyrus,
536 B.€~.—See Newton.
- PREFACE. ix
inquired on what basis this belief of“their forefathers
was established, nor by what authority the delusion (if
it was one) could have been for somanyages supported.
Among a thousand persons who now tzeat: the mention
ofAstrology with supercilio'us ridicule, there is scarcely
one who knows distinctly what it is he. laughs at, or on
what plea his ancestors should stand excused forhaving,
in their day, contemplated with respect the unfortunate
object of modem derision.
The general want of information on these points, and
the indifference with which such want has been hitherto
regarded, cannot surely be attributed solely to the mos
“ ofAlmamoum‘“) became Wonderfully lhmous. He wrote expressly
“ from the Persian astrologers, and it may be from the works of
“ Gjamasp, since he also reports a prediction of the coming of Christ
“' in the following words: viz. ‘ In the sphere of Persia, saith Aben
“ "Ears; there ariseth upon the face of' the sign Virgo a beautiful
“ ‘ Widen, she holding two cars of corn in her hand, and a child in
“ ‘ herann: she feedeth him, and giveth him suck, 8w. Thismaiden,"
“ saith Albumazar, ‘ we call Adrenedefa, the pure Virgin. She
“ ‘ bringeth up a child in a place which is called Abrie [the Hebrew
“ Hand], and the child’s name is called Eisi [Jesus].’ This made
“- Alhertus Magnus believe that our Saviour, Christ, was born in
“' Virgo;- and therefore Cardinal Alliae, erecting our Lord‘s nativity
“ hy‘his description, casteth this sign into the horoscope. ' But the
“ meaning of Albumazar was, saith Friar Bacon, that the said virgin
“ was born,_the Sun being in that sigmand so it is noted in the 63'
“ lendar; and that she was to bring up her son in the Hebrew land.
“ [Mr. John Gregory’s Notes on- various Passages of Scripture 1'—
Amcient Universal History, vol. 5, pp. 445 to 419.
“ This caliph reigned in the earlier part' of the 9th century, and
caused Ptolemy’s Great Construction to be translated into Arabic, as
hereafter mentioned._
X PREFACE.
dern disrepute of the science; for mankind have usually,
in every successive age, exercised great industry in
tracing all previous customs, however triﬂing or obso
lete, and in examining all sorts of creeds, however un
important or erroneous, whenever there has appeared
any striking connection between such matters and his
torical facts; and, since astrology is most unquestion
ably blended intimately with history, it therefore be
comes necessary to seek for some further hypothesis, by
which this ignorance and indiﬂ'erence may be accounted
for. ’
Perhaps astrology has been conceived to have borne
the same relation to astronomy as alchymy did to chy
mistry. If such has been the notion, it has certainly been
adopted in error, for a modern chymist is still almost _
an alchymist: it is true that he no longer delays his
work in deference to the planets, nor does he now try
to make gold, nor to distil the elixir of earthly immor
tality; but nevertheless be still avails hiniself, to a cer
tain degree, of the same rules and the same means as
those of the old alchymist: he is still intent upon the
subtle processes of Nature, and still imitates her as far
as he can. He reduces the diamond to charcoal by an
operation analogous to that by which the alchymist
sought to transmute lead into gold; and he mainly dif
fers from the alchymist only in having assured himself
that there is a point beyond which Nature forbids fac
similes. Not so slightly, however, does the astronomer.
differ from the astrologer, but toto coelo: the astrologer
considered heavenly bodies and their motions merely
as the mechanism wherewith he was to weave the tissue
of hispredictions; and astronomy is no more an inte
gral part of astrology, than the loom is of the web which
PREFACE. xi
has been onen by it To have an idea of what alchy- \
my was, it is suﬂicient to have an idea of chymistry; but
astronomy, in itself, will never give a notion of astro
logy, ‘which requires additional and distinct considera
tion. '
It may be urged, that in the present day a general idea
of this by-gone and disused science is quite suﬁicient
for every body not professedly antiquarian. Such an
assertion would doubtless never be 'controverted, pro-'
vided the proposed general idea might comprehend the
truth. But the present actual general idea of astrolOgy
is by no means so comprehensive; indeed, nothing can
well be more inaccurate, or even more false: it seems to
have been adopted not from the elements of the science
itself, but from trite observations made. by writers against
the science; and consequently the world now wonders
at the lamentable defect of understanding that could
ever have permitted belief in it—forgetting that astrology
has been consigned to neglect, not in consequence of
any primc'z'facie palpability in its imputed fallacies, nor
indeed of \any special skill or acuteness on the part of
its professed adversaries, but rather in consequence of
thesudden and astonishing growth of other undoubted
sciences, with which it has been presumed to be incom
patible, and which during the thousands of years of the
reign of astrology were either unborn, or still slumbering
in continued infancy“. ‘
' To this view of the ease, the following remarks seem not inap
plicable: they are taken from a periodical work of deserved'rcpu
-tation:—- I ’ i '
“The study of astrology itself, as professing to discover, by celes
“ tial phenomena, future mutations in the elements and terrestrial
~xii renames.
!
The words “ professed adversaries,’ which have just
now been used, are of course not intended to be applied
'tothose mighty explorers of Nature’s laws and man’s
powers, who, in their lofty career, may have made an
incidental swoop at the pretensions of astrology. Di
rectly engaged in more exact pursuits, they stopped not
to dissect this their casual prey, which, after having been
thus struck by eagles, was left to regale crows and daws,
and these, in their convivial loquacity, accused their
unfortunate victim of crimes incapable of being com
mitted, and of oﬂ‘ences which had never been imagined.
0f the real faults of their in'ctim these garrulous bipeds
seem not to have been aware, or, if aware, they seem to
have considered them as not snﬂiciently prominent. Nor
was this want ofcandour or information absolutely con
ﬁlled to the mere vulgar herd of vituperative scribblers,
for even the sparkling essay against astrology, written by
" bodies, ought,‘perhaps, not to be despised‘. The theory ofthe tides,
“ for example, is altogether an astrological doctrine, and, long before
“ the days of Sir Isaac Newton, was as well understood as'it is at this
“ moment. The correspondence alleged by the ancient physicians
“ to exist between the positions of the Moon and the stages of various
“ diseases, is so Far from being rejected by the modern faculty, that
“ it has been openly maintainedf.” The writer then recounts sundry
(incidentspmsemdby “therustrologere to be dependent on the Moon,
_ and he adds these words: “ The fact of these allegations might be so
“~ easily ascertained, that it is surprising they should still be pro- ,
“nounced incredible, and denied rather than contradicted."
“' Sir Christopher Heydon’s Defence of Astrology, p. 2, edit. 1603."
“ 1' Dr. Mead on the Inﬂuence of the Sun and Moon upon Human
“ Bodies. See also Edinb. Rev. vol. 12, p. 36—Balfour on Sol-Lunar
“ Inﬂuence." Blackwood': Magazinefor Dec. 1821, Part 2, No. 59.
I
PREFACEa ‘ xiii
Voltaire (in his irrepressibie desire to convince the world
that he was au fait in every thing). proves only that the
writer, though the most generally informed man of his
time, had mistaken the really assailable points of the
object of his attack.
The author of the present Translation has no intention ,
now of either advocating or impugning the doctrines of
the science of which his Translation discourses: his
purpose is a different one. He has that sort of respect
for “the dead,whieh are already dead,” which, although
it does not incline him to “praise” them “ more than
“ the living, which are yet alive,” is still suﬁcient to
incite him to endeavour to avert the imputation of idiot
crednlity, to which their faith in astrology seems now
to subject them in the general opinion of the enlightened
“ living.” And, while he disclaims all idea of presum
ing to offer any argument on either side of the question,
asto the validity of the science, he must still,‘at the
same time, confess his admiration of the ingenuity and
oontrivance manifest in its construction, and avow his
readiness to believe that all its harmonized complica
tions might have easily held dominion over some of the
‘ strongest minds in that darker period when it ﬂourished.
In executing here the desire of attempting to vindi
cate the ancient credence in astrology, an elaborate dis
quisition would surely be not only unnecessary, 'but mis
placed: it seems suﬁicient to refer the reader to the
work of which the following is a translation, and to
these undisputed facts,—that the science was formerly
inculcated by the highest and most erudite authorities
of the period,—-that it was insisted on by votaries in all
parts of the world, attesting and producing instances of
its truth ;—and, moreover, that it was so ﬁnely and bam
. b _
xiv ' PREFACE.
tifully put together, as to cause the only deﬁciency of
one small, though most important, link- in its whole
chain of argument, to be undetected by dull minds, and
readily supplied by enthusiaStic genius. For centuries
after centuries all branches of learning were either made
subservient to astrology, or carried on in close alliance
I with it; and many of the illustrious names which it re
calls to our recollection are gratefully reverenced even
by modern science. The genius of Roger Bacon, al
though he was the ﬁrst of that school of natural phi
losophy which acknowledges none but experimented
truths, was nevertheless bowed to the doctrines of ju
dicial astrolog '; and 'his greater Namesake, who after
an interval of several centuries suCceeded to him in giv
ing proper direction to the mental energy, was still an
arguer in favour of celestial inﬂuences : it may be, there~
fore, fairly inferred, that the subtle spell which had
strength to enthrall “ stuﬂ'” so “ stern,” could have been
of no weak or vulgar order, but that it was sufﬁciently
potent and reﬁned to interest and amuse even the pre
sent age*.
* In the 51st No. of the Quarterly Review} Art. “Astrology and
i“ Alchumy,” the following observations are made :—
“ Certainly, it man may ever found his glory on the achievements
“ of his wisdom, he may reasonably exult in the discoveries of astro
-“ nomy ; but the knowledge which avails us has been created solely
“ by the “absurdities which it has extirpated. Delusion became the
“ basis of truth. Horoscopes and nativities have taught us to trace
“ the planet in its sure and silent path; and the acquirements which,
“ of all others, now testify the might of the human intellect, derived
“ their origin from weakness and credulity” (p. 181). Again ; “ As
“ trology, like alchymy, derives no protection from sober reason; yet,
“ with all its vanity and idleness, it was not a corrupting weakness.
PREFACE. XV
In this little volume will be found the whole of the
elements of astrology, and the entire ground-work of
those stupendous tomes in folio and quarto on the same
subject, which were produced in myriads during the
16th and 17th centuries, for the due mystiﬁcation of the
then world. The present volume is addressed equally
to the general reader, as well as to the votary of pure
I astrology, if any such there be: to the one it offers
amusement; for the other, it should contain the most
glowing interest. Evcn to the speculative metaphysi
cian it will furnish food for contemplation; for, in ad
dition to its peculiar hypothesis of‘cause and eﬂ'ect,
it developes many of those apparent incongruities of
character so often united in the same individual: and
this developement, even although adapted to the doc
trine of the stars, still merits attention; inasmuch as
the phenomena of which it treats (in whatever way
they may be produced or regulated) will ever remain
in actual existence.
The only English translation of Ptolemy’s Tetrabiblos,
hitherto published, appears to have been ﬁrst set forth
“ Tokens, predictions, prognostics, possess a psychological reality.
“ All events are but the consummation of preceding causes, clearly
“ felt, but not distinctly apprehended. When the strain is sounded,
' " the most untutored listener can tell that it will end with the key
“ note, though he cannot explain why each successive Bar must at
“ last lead to the concluding chord. The omen embodies the pre
“ sentiment, and receives its consistency from our hopes or fears."
p. 208. .
It may, perhaps, be difﬁcult to assent to all of the propositions in
voh'Ied in these extracts; but there are among them some which are
clearly unquestionable. '
xvi PREFACE.
in 1701, under the name of “ The Quadripartite.” That
publication has been long removed from general sale;
and its gross mis-interpretation ofthe author, caused by
the carelessness or ignorance of \Vhalley and his assist~
ants, by whom it was produced, has rendered most of
its pages unintelligible: its absence is, therefore, scarce
ly to be regretted. The second edition of the same
translation, professing to be “revised, corrected, and
“ improved,” and published by Browne and Sibley, in
1786, was not, in any one instance, puriﬁed from the
blunders and ohscun'tics which disgraced its predecessor:
it seems, in fact, less excusable than the former edition,
of which it was merely a reprint, without being at all
corrected, not even in certain typographical errata
which the former printer had been zealous enough to
point out in his ﬁnal page. Even this second publica
tion, worthless as it intrinsically is, can rarely now be
met with, and, like the former, only at a very heavy
price.
The present Translationhas been madle from Proclus's
Greek-Paraphrasc of Ptolemy’s original text: the edi
tion followed is that of the Elzevirs, dated in 1635*.
‘ lThis edition was printed in deuble columns, one containing Pro
elus‘s Greek Partrphmse, the other the Latin translation of Leo
Allistius; and W‘iilie‘m Lilly (no light authority in these matters) thus
wrote of it in the year 1647 : “ Indeed Ptolemy both been printed in
“ foﬁo, in quarto. in octave, in sixtoens.: that luter printed at Ley—
“ den" [where the 'Elzevirs were established] “I conceive m be
“ most exact); it was performed by Allntius.". To the said edition is
preﬁired an anonymous address to the reader, in Latin, and to the
tbllowing etlbet :—
“ I have reckoned it part- ot' my duty to give you, benevolent
“ reader, some short information as to the pliMiOMiOhiuli‘ﬂl-lﬂ- littir
memos. xvii
But, intho course of translation, continual references
have been also had to various editions of the original
text, in order to ascertain the proper acceptation of
“ 'v'vork, Which, having hitherto existed only in Greek", is now, in its
“' Latin dress, accessible to the curiosity of all persons. This Para-I
- “ phrase of Procl‘us on the Tet'r'ahibbs of Ptolemy was translated a
“ few years ago by Leo Allatius, a Greek by birth, eminently skilled
“ ill the learning 0? his own nation, as Well as in Latin literature;
"‘ and already celebrated for other writings in both languages. He
“ lives, I'h‘ave understood, in Rome, in the family of Cardinal Biscia,
“ a‘nd‘hoids some oliice in the Vatican Library. He undertook this
“ present 'work, however, for his own private gratiﬁcation, and that
“ of certain friends; 'but when Writings compiled with this viciv
“ have once quitted their author’s hands, it will often happen that
" they have also, at the same time, escaped his controul. So this
“ oll'spn’hg ot’Allatius, having emerged from Rome, arrived at Ve
“nice, t‘rom whence it ivas Ion‘varde‘d to me by a certain great per
“ sonage ol‘illlistrious rank, in order that I might cause it to be
" printed. The names oi’ Ptolemy and Proclus, so celebrated among
“ mathematicians and philosophers, hesides the subject of the work
“ itself, seemed to me it suliicient warrant ibr committing it to {be
“ press. Whereuponl delayed not to avail m’yseli‘ol'the advantages
." I‘ possessed in having access to our excellent and most accurate
“ typhg'raphers, the ElZevirs, and I earnestly solicited them to pub.
“ llsh it: they, in their lovo for the commonwealth of letters, took
“ upon themselves the charge of printing it in the form you see.
“ You will learn from it, inquisitive Reader, how much power the
“ 'si'ars have over the atmosphere and all subhznary things: for the
‘ This assertion is applicable only to Pmolus’s Paraphrasc. There
Were several prior translations of the original 'I‘etrabiblos in Latin
and Arabic; and it appears by an extract from the Bibliotheca
Grams of Fahrioius [which will be found in a subsequent page], that
a Latin version, done from the Arabic, was printed at Vonice as
early as the year 1493.
xviii PREFACE
doubtful passages. The editions thus inspected were
that by Camerarius, printed at Nuremberg in 1535;
that by Melancthon, printed at Basle in 1553; and that
“ stars, and those brighter bodies of heaven, must not be imagined
- “ to be idle. The whole doctrine of the stars is not, however, here
“ treated of, but only that distinct part of it which the Greeks call
“judicial and prognostic, and which, while conﬁned within certain
“ limits, is as entertaining as it is useful, and is partly considered to
f‘ be agreeable to nature. But should it pretend'to subject to the skies
" such things as do not depend thereupon, and should it invite us to
“ foresee by the stars such things as are above the weakness of our
“ apprehension, it will assuredly deserve to be reprehended as a vain
?‘ and empty art, which has been demonstrated in many learned
“ books by the great Picus of Mirandola. The Chaldaeans, Geneth
“ liacs, and Planetarians, have been always held in disrepute, because
“ they professed to know not only more than they actually did know,
I f‘ but also more than is allowed to man to know. Even Ptolemy,
f‘ while he employs himself in this present work upon the Doctrine of
“ Nativities, is scarcely free from the charge of superstition and va~
" nity: perhaps, in a Pagan, this may be forgiven; but it is hardly
“ to be tolerated, that persons professing Christianity should be led
“ away by such an empty study, in which there is no solid utility,
“ and the whole pleasure of which is puerile. Finally, I warn you
‘_‘ that some persons doubt whether this was really produced by
"‘ Ptolemy‘: nevertheless, it has certainly appeared to Porphyry and
“ Proclus (who were doubtless great philosophers, although hostile
f‘ to the Christian faith) to be worthy ofreceiving elucidation by their
‘4 Commentaries upon itt. Peruse it, however, friendly reader, with
“ caution, having ﬁrst shaken off the weakness of credulity, for the
“ sinew of wisdom is not to believe rashly. Farewell."
In addition to the remarks made in the foregoing address regard
* The reader is again referred to the extract from Fabricius (insert
ed in a subsequent page), containing that learned person's account of
this hook among the other works of Ptolemy.
1‘ Their Commentaries were printed at Basle, in 1559.
I
PREFLCR. xix
by JunctinuS, printed, with his own enormous commen— ‘
' taries, at Lyons, in 1581. Independently of these re
ferences, the present translation has been collated with
the Latin of Leo Allatius, and with two other Latin
translations: one printed at Basle, together with a tran
slation of the Almagest in 154] ; the other by itself at
Perugiq, in 1646*. The Translator has devoted all this
extreme care and attention to his labours, in the wish to
render Ptolemy’s astro-judicial doctrine into English as
purely and perfectly as possible; and, with the same
"view, he has likewise added, in an Appendix, certain
extracts from such parts of the Almagest as were found
to be referred to in the present work. Further illustra
tion is also given by notes gathered from the “ Primum
“ Mobile” of Placidus’r, and from a variety of other
ing Leo Allatius, it may be observed that he was appointed Keeper
of the Vatican Library by Pope Alexander VI], with whom he was
in high favour. It is said of him, that he had a pen with which he
had written Greek for forty years, and that he shed tears on losingit.
Another story of him states, that the Pope had often urged him to
take holy orders, that he might be advanced in the church, and one
day asked him why he had not done so: “ Because," said Allatius,
“ I would be free to marry.”—“ Why, then, do you not marry 3”—
“ Because I would be free to take orders.”—Clralmen‘s Biographical
Dictionary. .
" This translation from the Perugio press has been serviceable in
presenting certain various readings; but it does not seem to possess
any other peculiar merit. It professes to be a translation from the
original text of Ptolemy; and so likewise does the translation printed
at Basle, as above quoted.
1' It appears by the printed works of this author, that he was named
Didacus Placidus de Titis. He was a native of Bologna, by pro
fession a monk, and was styled Mathematician to the Archduke Leo
XX PREFACE.
sources whence any elucidation of the text might be
“derived. Even Whalley’s “ Annotations” (to use his
own grandiloquent designation) have occasionally yield
ed information, not altogether unimportant, although
generally incomplete.
It seems improper to close this Preface (notwithstand
ing the bulk it has already attained), without annexing
the following short notice of the life and works of the
great man from whom the Tetrabiblos has emanated.
Claudius Ptolemy was born at Pelusium, in Egypt,
and became an illustrious disciple of the school of
Alexandria, in which city he ﬂourished during the reign
ofAdrian and that of Antoninus Pius. The date of his
birth has been commonly assigned to the 70th year of
the Christian aera; but the accuracy of this date seems
questionable ; for he has himself noted in one part ofhis
works, that Antoninus reigned twenty-three years. He
must have, therefore, survived that prince; and, as it is
not probable that he continued his scientiﬁc labours
until after ninety years of age, which he must have done
had he been born about the year '70, because Antoninus
died in the year 161, it seems that his birth would be
more properly ascribed to some later period. Moreover,
it is asserted by the Arabians, that he died in the 78th
year of his age; and a similar statement is also made
by Luca Gauricus, in the dedication of his version of
the Almagest“ to Dominico Palavicini: Gauricus has,
pold William of Austria. He wrote in the earlier part of the 17th
century, and his work, now cited, is considered to contain the most
successful application of Ptolcmy’s astrological rules to practice. The
original is extremely scarce; but a new English edition, by Cooper,
’may be had of the Publishers of this work.
"' Printed at Basle, 1541.
PREFACE. xxi'
‘ however,iplaced his death in the year 147, which does
not accord with the fact of his having survived Anto
ninus. ’ '
Ptolemy has recorded that he observed, at Alexan
dria, an eclipse of the Moon, in the 9th year of Adrian;
and that he made many observations upon the‘ﬁxed
stars in the 2d year of Antoninus Pius: whence it may
be concluded, that his observations upon the 'heavens
were principally made during the period from A.D. 125
to A.D.- 140, or thereabouts; and it also follows, of
course, that the supposition, entertained by some au
thors, of his identity with the Ptolemy who was always ,
in attendancexupon Galba, as his personal astrologer,
and who promised Otho that he should survive Nero
and obtain the empire, is entirely without foundation".
To Gauricus’s version of the Almagest there is also
another dedication, addressed to Pope Sixtus, and com
posed by George Trapezuutius, describing Ptolemy as
‘-‘ regid stirpe oriundum," and explaining that he had,
‘7 with a truly regal mind,” applied himself to the
sciences, because the ancient sceptre of the Ptolemie's
had previously passed into the hands of Cleopatra, and
because the kingdom of Egypt had been since reduced .
to the state of a Roman province. ‘ The authentic de- '
tails of the circumstances of Ptolemy'slifeare, however,
extremely few, It is said that ‘he was distinguished
among the Greeks by the epithets “ most wise," and
“,most divine," on account of his great learning; and,
according to the Preface to Whalley’s translation ofthe
:l‘etrabiblos, the Arabians report that “ he was ektreme
"' Chalmerx’s Biographical Dictionary.
0
xxji PREFACE.
‘ “ 1y abstﬂmim arid rode much on hmqbaoka” addiw
that although he was. “ spruce in apparel," M- his
breath was not remarkable for an agreeable odour. : _
(The errors of the Ptolemaic theory of the unimse
have now been. long discarded; but them are mm
11.0th in which modern sciences. and modern astronm
4 my in particular, have: reaped inculculable beusﬁts Qua-y
ills labours and researches-0f its great founder.- He
- has preserved and transmitted to us the obsewatiooa
and principal diSCOVQI’i,“ of remotnr periods. and has
enrichﬂd. and augmented. them with his om. He cor
reeted Hipparchus’s catalogue of the ﬁxed stars, and
format! tables forthe calculation and regulation of the
motions of the Sun, Moon, and planets. He was, in
fast, the ﬁrst who collected the scattesed and detacth
observations “Aristotle, Hipparohus, Posidonius, and
others on. the. mommy ofthe world, and digested them
ill-£0. 9, -§Y=3t3mg h? set in his MEWAW EUVTFQEM,
o; Great Construction, divided into thirteen books, and
galled, afth him, PM Ptolemaic. System. This and all
his other astronomioal works are founded upon the lay“v
“thesis, the With. is at visit in the centre of the
shim-s2, and thatths heavenly bodies, stars, and pla:
lists, all move round it in solid orbs, whose motions are
alldjtected by 01.1.0 WWW. mobile. or ﬁrst mover, of
_ Whigh llﬁ @iﬁQQllt‘ieQﬁt large in the i.‘ Great Construes
fittion.” In that Work he. also breaks of the ﬁgure and
‘ diuisioqs of the eagth, 0f the rjghtand oblique ascensions
of. the hqaggply bodies,“ and of the motions of the Sun,
Mum; apglplanets; and he gives tables for ﬁnding their
situations, latitudes, longitudes, and motions: he treats
also of eclipses, and the methods of computing them;
and he discoumsqsof the ﬁxedl'stﬂtﬁ, of which be far
Purses. ' Mai
[ﬁshes at numerous catalogue, with their magnitudes, la
heroes; and longitude-8*. ‘ '
It has been truly said, that “ Ptolemy’s order, false
“ as it was, enabled observers to give a plausibie ae- '
" count of the ﬁit‘atioits of the Sun and Mao-n, to foretell
“ corpses, and to improve geogmphyh” or, in chat
ﬁb'rds‘, that it represented the actuai phenotnena of’th‘é
heavens as they. really appear to a spectator on the
earth. it is, therefore, clear that Ptolemy’s astrology is
just as applicable to modern and imbrov‘ed astronomy
as it was to his owhi.
' In France, about the beginning of the 16th century, Orbﬁc-e Finé,
the Royai Reader, attempted, under the patronage of Francis I,‘ to
produce an astronomical- clock, in which every thing moved accord
ing to the principles of Ptolemy. it Was kept, about ﬁfty years ago,
it] the mena'stery' of St. Genéviéve, at Par-it. In Lilly’s Catalogue o‘t~
Astrological Authors, Urontius Fina-Ins ism‘entioh’éd as the Write? Of
a» work; on the twelve houses of heaven, potted in mm, use.
1- Sptctacle 0 to Nurture.~
I The objection which has heen urged against astrology, that the
signs are continually movingifrom their positions, cannot invalidate
this conclusion. That ohjectiou has, in fact, no real existence; for V
. Ptolel'ﬂy seems to have heen aW'are or this“ motion of are signs, and
as may provided fot: it in the mt- Chaptet of tie 1st Book of the
Tetrabiblos. From that chapter it is clear that the respective in
ﬂuences" he ascribes to the twelve stgns (or division: of the zodiac)
were considered by him as appurtenant to the places they occupied,
and not to the ma ur‘ivhietr they werecomposed. He has expressly
and repeatedly declared that the point of the vernal equinox is ever
the Beginning of the iodide, andthat the 30' degrees following it eyel
ré'l'ﬂn the' same virtue as that which he has in this work attrihnted
MAM, although the stars forming Aries may have quitted their?
degrees: the next 50 degrees are 'still to be accounted as Taurus,
and so of the rest; There is' abundant proof throughout the Tetrah
Bios, M Ptoiémy considered the virtnés Of ﬂit? conste'lldtions of the
Matt distinctly from thdsé dt" (heap‘p‘ca they'occupied. ' '
xxiv reruns.
In the year 827* the “ Great Construction” was tran
slated by the Arabians into their own language, and by
them communicated to Europe. It is through them that
it has been usually known by the name of the Almagest.
_ In the 13th century,-the Emperor Frederic II caused it
to be translated from the Arabic into Latin, and SaCrm
bosco-r was consequently enabled to write his famous
work upon the sphere. It was not, however, until about
the_end of the 15th century that the “ Great Construc-v V
“ tion” was translated into Latin from the original text;
and this important service was rendered to science by
Pnrbach, a professor of philosophy at Vienna, who
learned the Greek tongue at the instigation of Cardinal
Bessarion. By means of this translation, the Epheme
rides of George Miiller, sumamed Regiomontanus, a
disciple of Purbach’s, were ﬁrst composed. The Greek
text of the Almagest, or Great Construction, was ﬁrst
published at Basle, by Simon Grynaeus, in 1538; and it
was again printed at the same place in 1551, with cer
tain other works of Ptolemyi. The rest of Ptolemy’s
works connected with astronomy, and now extant, are
the Tetrabiblos, or Four Books of the Inﬂuence of_ the
Stars§ (now translated); the Centiloquy, or Fruit of his
' The French say 813, but 827 is the date given by English chro
nologists. ‘
i" This scientiﬁc man was a Mathurine Friar, and a professor in the
University of Paris: he died in 1256. It is pointed out in the Edin
burgh Review, >N0. 68, that he was a native of Yorkshire, and his
real name John Holywood, euphonizcd, in Paris, into Sacrobosco.
I Chalmers.—-The 'l‘cirabibloa was among these works.
§To such readers as may be curious-to know in what manner this
book warpromulgated in Europe, after the revival of letters, the fol
runes. ' u,
Four Books, being a kind of supplement to the fornier;
and the Signiﬁc‘ations of the Fixed Stars. The last is
merely a daily calendar, shewing the risings and settings
lowing extract ﬁ'om the Bibliotheca Graeca of Fabricius will furnish
information :—
“ Lib; IV. Cap. XIV. § 4. - Tl'ifl-Bl‘lig, Zen-Er; Mean/4.11“. Quadri
" partilum, live quatuar libri (1e apotelermatibru er judiciir astrorum, ad
“ Syrian (h). Grlece primum editi a Joachimp Camerario, cum ver
“ sione we duorum priorum librorum, et praecipuorum e reliquis 1w
" corum. Norimb. 1585, 4t0.-Hinc cum versione Phil. Melancthonis,
“ qui in praet‘at. ad Erasmum Ebnerum Senatorern Norimbcrgcnsem
“ testatur se editioan Camerarii multis mendis purgasse, tum nu
‘Y meros in locis apheticis tam Graeci quarn Latini textus emendasse.
“. Basil, 1558, 8vo.—-Latine pridem verterat Eyidiur Tebaldinur, sive
“ latino-barbaré ex Hispanics. verione, Alfonsi Castellae Regis jussu,
“ ex Arabico (i) confecta. Vertit et Antonius Gogava, Lovan. 1548,
“ dto; Patavii, 1658, 121120; Pragae, 1610, 12mo. Commentario il
“ lustravit Hieron. Cardanur pripribus duobus libris Camerarii, poste
“ rioribus Gogava: versione servata, Basil, 1554, fol. ; 1579, fol. ;
“ Lugd. 1555, 8vo, et in Cardani'opp.——Georgii Vallw ccmmentarius,
“ anno 1502 editus, nihil aliurl est, quam Latina versio scholiorum
" Graecorum, sire exegeseos jejuna: Demophili in tetrahihlon, qua:
" cum Porphyrii sive Antiochi isagoge, Greece et Latine, addita
“ Hieron. Wolﬁi versione, lucem vidit Basil. 1559, fol. In his scho
“ liis Dorotheus allegatur, p. 48, 110, at 189; Cleopatra, p. 88; Per
“ phyrius Philosophus, p. 169. Meminit et auctor Petosiridis ac Ne
“ cepso, p. 112 Z—Myu 81 “um “max-4.- (ita leg. pro xh‘m at p. 112)
“ an l'h'longiv, Ifuyng cgr'rol n h” argohong lfnlhwav Ieeyfﬂfmn", Pa.
“ raphrasin tetrabibli a Proclo concinnatam Greece edidit Melancthon,
“ Basil. 1554, 8vo. Greece et Latine cum versione sua Lee Allatilu,
" Lugd. Batav. 1654i, 8vo. Locum Ptolemaei e codice Graeco MS.
e _" Nechepsos and Petosiris are anciently spoken of, for they
“ ﬁrst explained prognostication by Astrology.”
1.11,“ was perhaps a reprint of the edition of 1635, from which
/th'e present translation has been made; unless there may have been
an error of the press in stating 1654 instead of 1685, which seems
probable. as the edition of 1685 is unnoticed by‘Fabricius.
xxvi ' 155erx;
of the stars, and the nature of the weather thereby pro
duoed. There, are likewise extant his geographical
work (which has rendered important service ,to modem '
geographers), and also his celebrated book on- Her
monics, or the Theory of Sound.
Proclus, to whom the World is indebted for the iin-i
proved text of the TetrabibIOs', was barn at Constanti
“in oolleg’m Corporis 0mm OXon. felieiter restituit Seldemrs, p.
". N ad Mar-mom Arundeliana. Haly Hebert Rodoan Arabis com
"mentarium laudat Cardanus, cum Demophilo Latina editam."
“ (h) Sohol. Grmc. I'lgwowm n Zup o "roman: n ﬂrClm, up: n in
" 1n GUI; no" mun org-7pm“: arguioamn- Mym: h em: a: 4m
" lot/u um 10 as 20;. am“. Au“ 8: m a mum, no" mm m m
“ 1x6“; an M vwm nu pdmn'aml‘i‘.”
‘_‘ (i) Selden. Uxor Hebr. p. 842. Caeterum do Alphonsi Regis
“ cult, in promoVenda Arabian Quadripartiti versions, vide, si plum,
“ Nie: Anionium in Bibl- veteri Hispaua, t. 2, p. 95- vol Acts, Erud.
“ A4697, p. 302. Latina. versio ex Arabico faota lucem vidit Venet.
“ 1493, M Viderit POIIO Gassendus, qul in Philosophid Epicuri,
“ ubi contra Astrologos disputat. t. 2, p. 501, contendit tetrabiblorl
“ indignant ease Ptolemmi genie ct mbditi-tium. Equideru Io. Pica
“judiee, l. 1, contra Astrologos, p. Q86, Ptolemus maloﬂm' rive
“ Apotelesmaticmum est opthru.”
" It will be seen= by the preceding note, that Proclus’s Paruphrasd
of the Twabiblos should properly be coIsiderod as superior to the
other readings of that book; since it appears, on the authority of
Fabricim, that Melancthon, after having been at the pains .0! var
renting and republishing, in 15.58 (with his own emendat'iom), the
edition of Cannemius, containing the reputed original text, still
dmedit advisable, in the following year, to eel-lie Proolus's Plrai
phrase. This Paraphrase must, therefore, necessarily have had claims
to“ his attention not found in the text he had previously edited.
“ “ Ptolemy addresses the book to Syrus,. to whom he has also
“ addressed all his other treatises, Some say that this home of Sims
“' was feigned; others, that it was not feigned, but that he was a
" physician, rind educated in those sciences.”
‘ ' PREF‘AQE. v xxvii
mple, in the your 410. He studied at Alexandria and
at Athens, and became. very eminent among thelotoi
Platonists. He succeeded Syrianus, a. celebrated phi
IQSQRIWD, in the roctorship of the Platonic school at
Athens, and died there in 485*. He was a most volu—
minous author, in poetry as well as in prose. Among
his works there are Hymns to the Sun, to Venus, and ~
to the. Muses; Commentaries upon several pieces of
Plato, and upon Ptolemy's Tetrabiblost; an Epitome
or compendium of all the Astronomical Precepts de-a
monstrated in the Almagest; and Elements of Theology
> and Natural Philosophy—He was in dispute with the
Christians ‘on the question of the eternity of the world,
which he undertook to provo in eighteen elaborate ar—
guments-A late writer in a certain periodical work
has erroneously identiﬁed him with another Proclus,
who was in favour with the Emperor Anastasius, and
who destroyed the. ships of Vitalianus, when besieging
Constantinople in 514, by burning them with great bra
zen mirrors, or specula.
* Chalmers’s Biographical Dictionary. ‘
‘ T It will, 0? WWW, be understood that this Gommantuy in distinct
I'I'Im hi! Pmphraso, now translated.
m
Signs of the. Zodiac.
“W Mes Q Libra
ti Taurus m Scorpio
11 Gemini ' 1‘ Sagittarius
m Cw: or Capricorn
61‘ law at." Aquarius
"11 Virgo X Pisces.
Just published, by DAY]. 5: DICKSON, SI. Martin’s-le-Gmnd, Landon.
t. A NEW METHOD of SOLVlNG EQUATIONS with Ease and EK
pedition, by which the true Value ofthe Unknown Quantity is found with
out previous Reduction ; with a Supplement, containing two other Methods
of Solving Equations, derived from the same Principle. By Tnsornttus
Howrtln. 4m, price 7s.
2. A TREATISE on lNVOLUTlON and EVOLUTION, beinga new
Method of Extracting the Roots of Equations and Numbers, by Arithmetical
Rules; with Historical Facts relating to the invention. By P. Nrcuouotl.
8w, price Gs. ' '
N.B.—This Work has been honoured by the approbation of the National
institute of France.
8. ANALYTICAL and ARlTHMETlCAL ESSAYS; consisting 0!—
Continued Fractions—Figurate Numbers—an entire new Method of the Trans
formation of Equations, Determination of their Limits, the Extraction of
their Roots, and their consequent Depression, by an easier Method than that
hitherto practised ; together with the Decomposition of Quantities into other!»
of a given Form. The whole of the Rules resulting from the Theory being
such, that the Operations performed by them are completely divested of
the algebraic form, and thereby rendered purely arithmetical: to which are
also added, Essays on the Method of Finite Differences—indeterminate Equa
tions—and the Combinatorial Analysis; the method of treating the whole of
these subjects being either new, or rendered more obvious by a clearer expla
nation. By P. Ntcunuou, Author of several Analytical Works. Bvo, 129.
4. The RUDlMENTS of ALGEBRA; in which the Subjects are expli
citly treated in a new Manner, the Theory rendered clear, and the Practice
more expeditious than hitherto. For the use of Schools, and the assistance
of those who have n0t had the advantage of a master; as also to prepare the
student to read the higher branches of the mathematics with less ditﬁculty.
,By P. Ntcuotsou. lﬂmo, price 75. 6d.
'6. A TREATlSE on ALGEBRA, containing the Fundamental Principles
of this Art, and a variety of Problems in the most important Branches of the
Mathematics ; also New Rules for ﬁnding the Roots of Equations, and for
determining the Lengths of Curved Lines, 64c. By Gasman BUXTON. Price
10s. 8vo, boards. 1
6. The ELEMENTS of FLUXlONS. By Jotm Dawes, Member of the
Royal College of Surgeons, in London. Price 3s. 6d. with a Plate.
Preparingfor the Press, by the Publisher: ofthis Translation,
A shortTREATlSE on Mr. RANGER's ZODIACAL PLA
NlSPHERE, descriptive ofits various USes in Astronomy and Astrology, pu
ticularly for erecting Figures of Nativities, and for ascertaining the Arcs of Di
rection, dzc. ; illustrated by an engraved Plate of a Nativity, drawn according to
the Planispherc, exhibiting all the Heavenly Bodies in their actual Situations
at the Time of Birth (as indicated by their Declinations and Circles of Posi
tion); shewing also their several Aspects and Directions properly displayed
and measured. Other Plates will likewise beannexed, representing the Ir»
struments and Scales for correctly laying down this Planisphere, the whole
use and application of which will be fully detailed in the Treatise.—
Vide Note, p. I46 qftlti: book. 1 .
An extensive Collection ofancieut and modern Alchemical, Architectural,
Astrological, Astronomical, Botanical, Chemical, Mathematical, Mechanical,
Medical, Military, Nautical, Occult, Philosophical, Surgical, general Scientiﬁc
and miscellaneous Books, in various Languages, both foreign and domestic,
are on sale for Ready Money. '
N.B. Autltors' Manuscripts accurately and neatly printed , likewise pub- ,
lished at a very moderate commisl'ton.
ﬁe Plain and ornamental Engraving executed.
PTOLEMY’S TETRABIBLos,
OR
POUR- 30.018
01’ THE
INFLUENCE OF THE STARS.
W
BOOK‘THE FIRST.
@Daritzr I.
Proem.
THE. studies preliminary to astronomical prognostication,
O Syrus ! are two :' the one,'ﬁrst_alike in order and in power,
leads to the knowledge of the ﬁgurations of the Sun, the
Moon, and the stars; and of their relative. aspects to each
other, and to the earth: the Other takes into consideration
the changes which their aspects create, by means of their
natural properties, in objects under their inﬂuence.
The ﬁrst mentioned study has been already explained in the
Syntaxis* to the utmost practicable extent; for it is com
plete in itself, and of essential utility even without being
blended with the second ; to which this treatise will be de
voted, and which is not equally self-complete. The pre
sent wprk shall, however, be regulated by that due regard for
truth which philosophy demands:.and since the material
quality of the objects acted upon renders them weak and
variable, and difﬁcult to be accurately apprehended, no po
sitive or infallible rules (as were given in detailing the ﬁrst
* The .Almagest, or Magna Constructio.
B
2 P'roumv’s TETRABIBLOS. ’ [Book I.
doctrine, which is always governed by the same immutable
laws) can be here set forth: while, on the other hand, a due
observation of most of those general events, which evidently
trace their causes to the Ambient, shall not be omitted.
It is, however, a common practice with the vulgar to
slander every thing which is difﬁcult of attainment, and surely
they who condemn the ﬁrst of these two studies must be
considered totally blind, whatever arguments may be pro
duced in support of those who impugn the second. There
are also persons who imagine that whatever they themselves
have not been able'to acquire, must be utterly beyond the
reach of all understanding; while others again will consi
der as useless any science of which (although they may
have been often instructed in it) they have failed to pre
serve the recollection, owirig to its difﬁculty of retention.
In' reference to these opinions, therefore, an endeavour
shall be made to investigate the extent to which prognosti
cation by astronomy is practicable, as well as serviceable,
previously to detailing the particulars of the doctrine.
thaptzr II'.
Knowledge may be acquired by Astronomy to a certain Extent.
, THAT a certain power, derived from the aethereal nature, is
diffused over and pervades the whole atmosphere of the
earth, is clearly evident to all men. Fire and air, the ﬁrst of'
the sublunary elements, are encompassed and altered by the
motions of the aether. These elements in their turn encom
pass all inferior matter, and vary it as they themselves are
varied; acting on earth and water, on plants and animals *.
" The following extract from an old geographical work, framed
on the rules of Ptolemy, explains the system on which this action of
the anther is made to depend :—
Chap. 11.] Proumv’s TETRABIBLOS. ' 3
The Sun, always acting in connection with the Ambient,
contributes to the regulation of all earthly things: not only
by the revolution of the seasons does he bring to perfection
the embryo of animals, the buds of plants, the spring of
‘ a
C
l a
( a
l‘
a
H
(G
(I
“
a
I‘
l o,
ia
l‘
a
‘
“ Chap. 2. The world is divided into two parts, the elemental re
gion, and the aethereal. The elemental region is constantly
subject to alteration, and comprises the four elements; earth,
water, air and ﬁre. The aethereal region, which philosophers call.
, the ﬁfth essence, encompasses, by its concavity, the elemental;
its substance remains always unvaried, and consists often spheres;
of which the greater one always spherically environs the next
smaller, and so on in consecutive order.—First, therefore, around
the sphere of ﬁre, Got), the creator of the world, placed the sphere
of the Moon, then that of Mercury, then that of Venus, then that
of the Sun, and afterwards those of Mars, of Jupiter, and of Sa
turn. Each of these spheres, however, contains but one star: and
these stars, in passing through the zodiac, always struggle against
theprimum mobile, or the motion of the tenth sphere; they are also
entirely luminous. In the riext place follows the ﬁrmament, which
is the eighth or starry sphere, and which trembles or vibrates (tre
pidat) in two small circles at the beginning of Aries and Libra
(as placed in the ninth sphere); this motion is called by astrono
mers the motion of the access and recess of the ﬁxed stars.” (Pro
be.ny in order to account for the precession of the equinoxes.)
“
“
(l
(l
‘6
ﬂ
1‘
ll
“
l a
“
‘I
6‘
This is surrounded by the ninth sphere, called the chrystalline or
watery heaven, because no star is discovered in it. Lastly, the
primum mobile, styled also the tenth sphere, encompasses all the
before-mentioned aethereal spheres, and is continually turned upon
the poles of the world, by one revolution in 24 hours, from the east
through the meridian to the west, again coming round to the east.
At the same time, it rolls all the inferior'spheres round with it, by
its own force; and there is no star in it. Against this primum mo
bile, the motion of the other spheres, running from the west
through the meridian to the east, contends; Whatever is beyond
this, is ﬁxed and immoveable, and the professors of our orthodox
faith aﬂii'm it to be the empyrean heaven which GOD inhabits with
the elect.”—Cosmographia of Peter Apianus (named Benewitz),
dedicated to the Archbishop of Saltzburg, edited by Gemma Frisius,
and printed at Antwerp 1574.
4 Proutn’s TETRABXBLOS. [Book 1.
waters, and the alteration of bodies, but by his daily pro
gress also he operates other changes it: light, heat, moisture,
dryness and cold'; dependent upon his situation with regard
to the zenith. ' '
The Moon, being of all the heavenly bodies the nearest to
the Earth, also dispenses much influence; and things ani
mate and inanimate iympatbize and Vary with her. By the
changes of her illuminatiort, rivers swell and are reduced;
the tides of the sea are ruled by her risings and settings;
and plants and animals are elrpanded or collapsed, if not en—i
tirely at least partially, as she waxes or wanes.
The stars likewise (as well the ﬁxed stars as the planets),
in performing their revolutions *, produce "many impres
sions on the Ambient. They cause heats, winds, and storms,
to the inﬁuende of Which earthly things are conformably
subjected. . _ I ..
And fmther, the-mutual conﬁgurations of all these hes-I
venly bodies, by commingl'ing the itlﬁuem with , which
each is separately invested, produce a multiplicityof changes.
The power of the Sun however predominates, because itis;
more generally distributed; the others either co-op‘eratev
with his power or diminish its effect: the Moon more fre-_
quently and weplainly perfde this ht'hbr conjunction,
at her ﬁrst and last quarter, and at her opposition : the stats”
act also to a similar purpose, hut at longer interwals and_
more obocurely than the Moon; and their operationprinci-v
pally depends upon the mode of their visibility, their oc—
caltation and their declination. ‘
From these premises it follows not only that all. bodies,
which may be already compounded, are subjected to the
motion of the stars, but also that the impregnation and
* It will be reoollocted that the Ptolemaio astronomy attributes
motion and a regular course to those stars which we now callaﬁxed,
but which the Greeks merely termed whom, undeviatt'ng.
Chap. 11.] Prousmt’s TBTRABIBLOS. 5
growth of the seeds from 'which all bodies proceed, are
framed and moulded by the quality existing in the Ambient
at the time of such impregnation and growth. And it is
upon this principle that the more observant husbandmen
and shepherds are accustomed, by drawing their inferences
from the particular breezes which may happen at seed~time
and at the impregnation of their cattle, to form predictions
as to the quality of the expected produce. In short, hovh
, ever unlearned in the philosophy of nature, these men can
foretel, solely by their previous observation, all the more
general and usual effects which. result from the plainer and
indie visible configurationopf the Sun, Moon, and stars.
It is daily seen that even most illiterate persons, with no
other aid than their own experienced observation, are capa
ble of predicting eventswhich may be consequent on the
more extended inﬂuence of the Sun and the more simple
order of the Ambient, and which may not be open to varia~
tion by any complex conﬁgurations of the Moon and stars
towards the Sun. There are, moreover, among the brute
creation, animals who evidently form prognostication, and
use this wonderful instinct at the changes of theseve'ral
seasons of the year, spring, summer, autumn and winter;
and, also, at the changes of the wind.
' In producing the changesilast mentioned, the Sun itself
is chieﬂy the operating and visible cause. There are, how
ever, other events which, olthough they are not indicated in
so simple a manner, but dependent on a slight complication
of causes in the Ambient, are also foreknown by persons
who have applied their observation to that end. Of this
kind, are tempests and gales of wind, produced by certain
- aspects of the Moon, or the ﬁxed stars, towards the Sun,
according to their sevcral courses, and the. approach of
. which is usually foreseen by mariners. < At the same time,
prognostication made by persons of this class must be fre
_ quently fallacious, owing to their deﬁciency in science and
6 mommy’s TETRABIBLOS. [Book I.
their consequent inability to give necessary consideration to
the time and place, or to the revolutions of the planets; all
which circumstances, when exactly deﬁned and understood,
certainly tend towards accurate foreknowledge.
When, therefore, a thorough knowledge of the motions
of the stars, and of the Sun and Moon, shall have been ac
quired, and when the situation of the place, the time, and
all the conﬁgurations actually existing at that placer-and
time, shall also be duly known; and such knowledge be yet
further improved by an acquaintance with the natures of
the heaVenly bodies—not of what they are composed, but
of the eﬂ'ectiye inﬂuences they possess; as, for instance, that
heat is the property of the Sun, and moisture of the Moon,
and that other peculiar properties respectively appertain to
the rest of them ;—when all these qualiﬁcations for pre
science may be possessed by any individual, there seems no
' obstacle to deprive him of the insight, offered at once by
nature and his own judgment, into the effects arising out of
the quality of all the various inﬂuences compounded toge
' ther. So that he will thus be competent to predict the pe
culiar constitution of the atmosphere in every season, as,
for instance, with regard to its greater heat or moisture, or
other similar qualities; all which may be foreseen by the
visible position or conﬁguration of the stars and the Moon
towards the Sun.
Since it is thus clearly practicable, by an accurate know
ledge of the points above enumerated, to make predictions
concerning the proper quality of the seasons, there also
seems no impediment to the formation of similar prognos
tication concerning the destiny and disposition of every
human being. For by the constitution of the Ambient,
even at the time of any individual’s primary conformation,
the general quality of that individual’s temperament maybe
perceived; and the corporeal shape and mental capacity
with which the person will be endowed at birth may be
c
Chap, 11,] PTOLEMY’S 'ra'rsssm‘rtii's. 7
/
pronounced; as well as the favourable and unfavourable
events indicated by the state of the Ambient, and liable to
attend the individual at certain future periods; since, for
instance, an event dependent on one disposition of the
Ambient will be advantageous to a particular temperament,
and that resulting from another‘ unfavourable and injurious.
From these circumstances, arid others of similar import, the
possibility of prescience is certainly evident.
There are, however, some plausible assailants of this doc
trine, whose attacks although greatly misapplied seem yet
worthy of the following observations.
In the ﬁrst place, the science demands the greatest study
and a constant attention to a multitude of diﬂ'erent points ;
and as all persons who are but imperfectly practised in it
must necessarily commit frequent mistakes, it has been sup
posed that even such events as have been truly predicted
have taken place 'by chance only, and not from any opera.
tive cause in nature. But it should be remembered that
these mistakes arise, not from any deﬁciency or want of
power in the science itself, but from the incomp'etency of
unqualiﬁed persons who-pretend to eXercise it. And besides
this, the majority of the persons who set themselves up as
professors of this science, avail themselves of its name and
credit for the sake of passing off some other mode of divi
nation; by that means defrauding the ignorant, and pre
tending to foretel many things which from their nature
cannot possibly be foreknown; and consequently aﬂ'ording
opportunities to more intelligent people to impugn the va
he even of such predictions as can rationally be made,
The reproach, however, thus brought upon the science is
~ swholly unmerited; for it would ‘be equally just to condemn
- all other branches of philosophy, because each numbers
among its professors some mischievous pretenders.
Secondly, it is not attempted to be denied that any indi
vidual, although he may have attained to the greatest possi
8 l woman’s 'I'BTBAIIIBLOS. [Book I.
ble accuracy in the science, must still be liable to frequent
error, arising out of the very nature of his undertaking,
and from the weakness of his limited capacity in comparison
with the magnitude of his object. For the whole theory
of the quality of matter is supported by inference rather
than by positive and scientiﬁc proof; and this is caused
principally by the concretion of its temperament out of a
niultitude of dissimilar ingredients. ‘ And, although the
former conﬁgurations of the planets have been observed to
produce certain consequences (which have been adapted to
conﬁgurations now taking place), and are, after long periods,
and in a greater or less degree, resembled by subsequent
conﬁgurations, yet these subsequent configurations never
become exactly similar to those which have preceded them.
For an entire-return'of vall the heavenly bodies to the exact
situation in which they have once stood with regard to the
earth will never take Place, or at least not in any period do.
terminable by human calculation, whatever vain attempts
may be, made to acquire such unattainable knowledge *.
The examples referred to for guidance being therefore not
exactly similar to the existing cases to which they are now
applied, it must naturally follow that predictions are some
times not borne out by the events. Hence arises the sole
difficulty in the consideration of events produced by the
'Atnbierit. For no other concurrent cause has been hitherto
‘ There seems reason to suppose that this was a favorite specula
tion among the antiwts. 1n Scipio’s Dream, as related by Cicero, -
the phantom of his illustrious grandfather, is made \ to speak of this
entire‘rett'un of allvthe celestial bodies to some original position
which-they had once held, as being the completion of the revolution
of: one great univarsb'l §ld§rz “and the phantom adds, “ but I must ac
“ quaint you that not bite-twentieth part of that great year has been
“ yet accomplished.” ,
This quotation is from memory, and perhaps may not be verbally
correct. I '
Chap. 11.] mommy’s TETRABIBLOS. ' 9
combined with the motion of the heavenly bodies; although
the doctrine of nativities, particularly that part of it re
lating to peculiar individual temperament, demands also
the consideration of other concomitant causes, which are '
neither triﬂing nor unimportant, but essentially potent in.
aﬂ'ecting the individual properties of the creatures born.
Thus the variety in seed has the chief inﬂuence in supplying
the peculiar quality of each species; for, under the same
disposition of the Ambient and of the horizon, each various
kind of seed prevails in determining the distinct formation
of its own proper species; thus man is born, or the horse
is foaled 3 and by the same law are brought forth all the
other various creatures and productions of the earth. It is
also to be remembered, that considerable variations are caused
in all creatures- by the respective places where they may be
brought forth: for although, under the same disposition of
v the Ambient, the germs of the future creatures may be of
one species, whether human or of the horse, the difference
in situation, of the places in which they are generated,
produces a dissimilarity in the body and spirit of one from
the body and spirit of another: and in addition to this it
must be considered that different modes of nurture, and the
variety of ranks, manners, and customs, contribute to render
the course of life of one individual greatly different from
that of another*; consequently, unless every one of these
* In this passage the author seems to have anticipated, and ex
posed the absurdity of an argument now considered very forcible
against astrology: viz. that “if the art were true, then any two in
“ dividuals born under' the same meridian, in the Same latitude, and
“ at the same moment of time, must have one and the same destiny;
“ although one were born a prince, and the other a mendicant.”
Such a monstrous conclusion is nowhere authorized by any astrologi
cal writer; itis, on the contrary, alWays maintained by all of them,
that the worldly diﬂ'erences and distinctions, alluded to in the text,
inevitably prevent this exact resemblance of destiny; and all'that
c
10 P'rommr's rarnaatseos. [Book I. a
varieties be duly blended with the causes arising in the Am
bient, the prel-judgment of any event will doubtless be very
incomplete. For, although the greatest multiplicity of
power exists in the Ambient, and although all other things
act as concurrent causes in unison with it, and can never
claim it as a concurrent cause in subservience to them,
there will still, nevertheless, be a great deﬁciency in predic
tions attempted to be made by means of the heavenly mo
tions alone, without regard to the other concurrent causes
just now adverted to.
Under these circumstances, it would seem judicious
neither to deny altogether the practicability of prescience,
because prognostications thus imperfectly deriVed are some
times liable to be fallacious; nor, on the other hand, to
admit that all events, whatever, are open to previous enquiry;
as if such enquiry could in all cases be securely conducted
without having recourse to mere inference, and as if it were
not limited by the narrow extent of mere human abilities.
The art of navigation, for instance, is not rejected, although
it is in many points incomplete; therefore the bare fact
that predictions are frequently imperfect cannot authorise
they presume to assert is, that, in their respective degrees, any two
individuals, so born, will have a partial similarity in the leading fea
tures of their fate. Whether their assertion is uniformly home out,
I will not take upon me to determine, but it would be unfair not to
subjoin the following fact :—
In the newspapers of the month of February 1820, the death of a
Mr. Samuel Hemmings is noticed: it was stated that he had been
an ironmonger, and prosperous in trade; that he was born on the
4th of June 1788, at nearly the same moment as his late Majesty,
and in the same parish of St. Martin’s in the Fields; that he went
into business for himself in October 1760; that he married on the
' 8th September, 1761; and ﬁnally, after other events of his life had
resembled those which happened to the late King, that he died on
Saturday the 29th January 1820. 4
These coincidences are, at least, highly remarkable.
Chap, 11.] Proumv's iTETRanmLos. n
the rejection of the art of prescience: the magnitude of
its scope, and the faint resemblance that; it bears to a divine
attribute, should rather demand grateful commendations,
and receive the utmost'regard and attention. And, since
no weakness is imputed to a physician, because he enquires
into the individual habit of his patient, as well as into then»
ture of the disease, no imputation can justly attach to the
professor of prognostication, because he combines the com
sideration of species, nurture, education and country, with
that of the motion of the heavens: for as the physician
acts but reasonably, in thus considering the proper constitu~
tion of the sick person as well as his disease; so, in form
ing predictions, it must surely be justiﬁably allowable to
comprehend in that consideration every other thing con
nected with the subject, in addition to the motion of the
heavens, and to collect and compare with that motion all
other co-opcrating circumstances arising elsewhere.
@baptrr III.
That Prescience is useful.
11‘ appears, then, that prescience by astronomy is possible
under certain adaptation 3 and that alone it will aﬂ‘olrd pre
menition, as far as symptoms in the Ambient enable it to
do so, of all such events as happen to men by the inﬂuence
of the Ambient. These events are, from their commence
ment, always in conformity with the spiritual and corporeal
faculties, and their occasional affections; as well as with
the shorter or longer duration of those aﬂ‘ections. They are
also conformable with other things which, although not ac
tually seated in man's immediate person, are still absolutely
and naturally connected with him :—in connection with his
body they are applicable to his estate, and his conjugal co
babitations; in connection with his spirit, they relate to his
l2 ‘ PTOLEMY’S TETRABIBLOS. [Book 1'.
offspring ‘1‘ and his rank; and they are also connected with
all fortuitous circumstances which may occasionally befall
him.
That the foreknowledge of these can be attained has al
ready been demonstrated; and it remains to speak of the
utility of the attainment. > First, however, let it be said in
what respect and with what view it is proposed to draw ad
vantage from this science ;—if it he considered in its tend
ency to promote the good of the 'mind, no object more
advantageous can surely be wanting to induce the world to
rejoice and delight in it, since it offers an acquaintance.
with things divine and human: ifit be considered in respect to
the beneﬁts it is capable of conferring on the body, its utility,
in this view also, will be found on comparison to excel that
of all other arts conducive to the comfortspf life, for it is
of more general application and service than all the others
together. And, although it may be objected to the art
of prescience, that it does not co-operate towards the ac
quirement of riches or glory, let it also be remembered
that the same objection attaches to every other art and
science; since there is not one which can of itself produce
either riches or glory, nor yet is there one which is on that
plea deemed useless : it seems, therefore, that the science of
prognostication, with its high qualiﬁcations and its aptitude
to the most important objects, does not, in any greater de
gree, deserve to be condemned.
In general, however, the persons who attack and repro
bate it as being useless, do not pay due regard to the manner
in which it becomes necessary; but deny its utility on the
* The Greek word for this, yams, though found in the Elzevir
edition from which this translation is made, does not appear in other
' copies; the Basic edition of 1558 says merely, n 11 W41) m 'n afm/Au,
“ honor and rank,” which is the sense also given in the Latin transla
tion of Perugio, 1646, without any mention of “ qﬁipri'ng.“
Chap. 111.] ProLEMv’s TE'I‘RABmLos. , l3
specious argument that it is superﬂuous and puerile to vat
tempt to foreknow things which must inevitably come to
pass: thus considering it in a mode at once abstracted, un
learned, and unfair. For, in, the ﬁrst place, this fact ought
to be kept in view, that events which necessarily and fully
happen, whether exciting fear or_creating joy, ifarriving un
foreseen, will either overwhelm the mind with terror or
destroy its composure by sudden delight; if, however, such
events should have been foreknown, the mind will have been
previously prepared for their reception, and will preserve an.
equable calmness, by' having been accustomed to contem
plate the approaching event as thOugh it were present, so
that, on its actual arrival, it will be sustained with tranquillity
and constancy. '
In the next place, it must not be imagined that all things
happen to mankind, as though every individual circumstance
were ordained by divine decree and some indissoluble super
nal cause; nor is it to be thought that all events are shewn
to proceed from one single inevitable fate, without being
inﬂuenced by the interposition of any other agency. Such
an opinion is entirely inadmissible; for it is on the contrary
most essential to observe, not only the heavenly motion
which, perfect in its divine institution and order, is eternally
regular and undeviating; but also the variety which exists
in earthly things, subjected to and diversiﬁed by the insti
tutions and courses of nature, and' in connection with
which the superior cause operates in respect to the accidents
produced.
It is further to be remarked that ‘man is subject, not
only to events applicable to his own private and individual
nature, but also to others arising from general causes. He
suﬂ'ers, for instance, by pestilences, inundations, or conﬁa
grations, produced by certain extensive changes in the Am
bient, and destroying multitudes at once; since a greater
and more powerful agency must of course always absorb
l4 ' Proteuv’s TETBABIBLOS. [Book I.
and overcome one that is more minute and weaker. In
great changes, thelefore, where a stronger cause predomi
nates, more gener laﬂ'ections, like those just mentioned,
are put in operation, but affections which attach to one in
dividual solely are excited when his own natural constitu
tion, peculiar to himself, may be ovtncome by some opposing
impulse of the Ambient, however small or faint. And in
this point of view it is manifest that all events whatsoever,
whether general or particular, of which the primary cause
is strong and irresistible, and against which no other con
trary agency has sufﬁcient power to interpose, must of ne
cessity bowholly fulﬁlled; and that events indicated by a
minor cause must of course be prevented and annihilated,
when some other agency may be found contending for an
opposite effect; if, however, no such opposing agency can
be found, they also must be fulﬁlled, in due succession to
the primary cause. Nevertheless, the fulﬁlment of events
thus indicated must not be ascribed solely to the vigour of
the cause producing them, nor to any inevitable fine, but
rather to the absence of any opposing inﬂuence capable of
prevention. And thus, with all things whatsoever which
trace their cause and to nature, the case is exactly si
milar; for stones *, plants, animals, wounds, passions and
diseases, all will of necessity operate on man toa certain
degree; and they fail to do so, if antidotes be found and
applied: against their inﬂuence.
In exercising prognostication, therefore, strict care must
be taken to foretel future events by that natural process only
which is admitted in the doctrine here delivered; and,
setting aside all vain and unfounded opinions, to predict
that, when the existing agency is manifold and great, and
of a power impossible to be resisted, the corresponding
* In allusion to the sympathetic powers antiently attributed to
certain stoves. ‘
Chap. 111.] Prornm’s TBTRABIBLOS. 15
event which it indicates shall absolutely take place; and
also, in other cases, that another event shall not happen when
its exciting causes are counteracted by some interposing in
ﬂuence. It is in this manner that experienced physicians,
accustomed to the observation of diseases, foresee that some
will be inevitably mortal, and that others are susceptible of
cure.
Thus, when any opinion is given by the astrologer with
respect to the various accidents liable to happen, it should
be understood that he advances nothing more than this pro
position; viz. that, by the property inherent in the Ambient,
any conformation of it, suitable to a particular temperament,
being varied more or less, will produce in that temperament
some particular affection. And it is also to be understood
that he ventures this opinion with the same degree of con
ﬁdence,‘as that with which a physician may declare that a
certain wound will increase or grow putrid; or a man ac
quainted with metals say thatthe magnet‘l‘ will attract iron.
For neither the increase nor putrefaction of the wound,
nor the magnet’s attraction of iron, is ordained by any in
evitable law, although these consequences must necessarily
follow, in due obedience to the ﬁrst principles of the exist
ing order of nature, when no means of prevention can be
" Whalley, in translating this chapter, makes the following remark
on this mention of the magnet: “ However much later it was that
“ the lotdstone became known in Europe, what is mentioned of it
“ in this chapter makes it evident that it was known in Egypt, where
“ Ptolemy lived, in his time."—That worthy translator forgot (if in
deed he ever knew) that the loadstone’s property of attracting iron
was known to Thales, and commented on by Plato and Aristotle,
all of whom lived some centuries, more or loss, before Ptolemy. It
is its polarity that was not known until the 11th or 12th century;
and the French say that the earliest notice of that polarity is found
in a poem of Guyot of Provence, who was at the Emperor Frede
rick’s Court at Mentz in 1181.-—See the French Encyclopaadia, 8w.
16 woman’s TETRABIBLOS. [Book I.
found and applied. But, however, neither of these conse
quences will take place, when such antidotes shall be pre
sented as will naturally prevent them :-and a similar con
sideration should be given to the predictions of the astrolo
ger :—because, if garlick be rubbed on the magnet, iron
will experience no attraction * ; and if proper medicines be
applied to the wound, it will cease to increase or to putrefy.
And therefore all events which happen to mankind take
" Respecting the effect here asserted to be produced on the mag
net by garlick, I have found the following mention in a book called
“ The Gardener's Labyrinth,” printed at London in 1586. “ Here
“ also I thought not to ouerpasse the maruellous discord of the ada
“ mant-stone and garlike, which the Greekes name to be an Anti
“ patheia or natural} contrarietie betweene them; for such is the
“ hatred or contrarietie between these two bodies, (lacking both
“ hearing and feeling) that the adamant rather puttetb away, than
“ draweth to it, iron, if the same afore be rubbed with garlike; as
“ ~Plutarehus hath noted, and, after him, Claudius Ptolemaeus.
“ Which matter, examined by diners learned, and founde the con
“ trarie, caused them to judge, that those skilful men (especially
“ Ptolemie) ment the same to be done with the Egyptian Garlike;
“ which Dioseorides wrote to be small garlike, andthe same sweete
“ in taste, possessing a bewtifull head, tending unto a purple colour.
“ There be which attribute the same to Ophioseoridon, which
“ Antonius Microphonius Biturix, a singular learned man, and we!
“ practised in sundry skilles, uttered’ this approoued secrete to a
“ friend whom he loued.”
In the same book, the “ Qphioscoridon” is thus spoken of:
“ 'There is another wild garlike which the Greekes name Ophioscori
“ don; in English, Ramsies; growing of the owne accord in the
“ fallow ﬁeldes.” '
Cornelius Agrippa (according to the English translation) has stated
that the presence of the diamond also neutralizes the attractive
power of the magnet. But as that great magician was somewhat
inclined to quibbling, it is not impossible that by the word he uses
for “ diamond” (viz. adamas) he may mean the adamant or loadstone;
which would reduce his assertion merely to this, that one magnet
will counteract another.
Chap. 111.] Proumv’s rs'ra‘ABmLos. ' 17
place also in the regular course of nature, when no impedi
ments thereto are found or known: but again, on the other
hand, if any impediments or obstructions be found in the
way of events which may be predicted by the regular course
of nature to happen, such events will either not take place
at all, or, if they should take place, will be much diminished
in their force and extent.
The same order and consequence exist in all cases, whe
ther the events have a general or only a particular operation;
and it may therefore well be demanded, why prescience is
believed to be possible as far as it regards general events,
and why it is allowed to be serviceable in preparing for
their approach; while in particular instances its power and
use are altogether denied. That the weather and the sea
sons, and the indications of the ﬁxed stars, as well as the
conﬁgurations of the Moon, aﬂ'ord means of prognostica
lion, many persons admit; and they exercise this foreknow
ledge for their own preservation and comfort, adapting their
constitutions to the expected temperature, by cooling and
refreshing things for the summer, and by warm things for
the winter. They also watch the signiﬁcations of the ﬁxed
stars, to avoid dangerous weather, in making voyages by
sea; and they notice the aspects of the Moon, when at the
full, in order to direct the copulation of their herds and
ﬂocks, and the setting of plants or sowing of seeds: and
there is not an individual who considers these general
precautions as impOssible or unproﬁtable. Still, however,
these same persons withhold their assent to the possibility
of applying prescience to particular cases; such, for in
stance, as any particular excess or diminution of cold or heat,
whether arising out of the peculiar temperament producing
the original cold or heat, or from the combination of other
properties; nor do they admit that there are any means of
guarding against many of these particular circumstances.
And yet, if it be clear that persons, who prepare themselves
I)
18 PTOLEMY’S TETRABIBLOS. [Book I,
by cooling-things, are less affected by any general heat of the
weather,vthere seems no reason for supposing that a similar
preparation would not be equally eﬂ'eetual against any, par
ticular conjuncture oppressed by immoderate heat. It ap
pears, however, that this idea, of the impracticability of at
taining foreknowledge of particular circumstances, must
originate solely in the mere difﬁculty of the acquirement;
which difﬁculty is certainly rendered peculiarly arduous by
the necessity of conducting the enquiry with the greatest
accuracy and precision: and to this it must be added, that,
as there is rarely found a person capable of arranging the
whole subject so perfectly that no part of the opposing in
ﬂuence can escape his attention, it frequently happens that
predictions are not properly regulated by due consideration
of that opposing inﬂuence, and- that the effects are at once
considered fully liable to be brought to pass, agreeably to
the primary agency and without any intervention. This
defect, of not sufﬁciently considering the opposing in
ﬂuence, has naturally induced an opinion that all future
events are entirely unalterable and inevitable. But,
since the foreknowledge of particular circumstances, al
though it may not wholly claim infallibility, seems yet so
far practicable as to merit consideration, so the precaution
it affords, in particular circumstances, deserves in like man
her to be attended to; and, if it be not of universal advan
tage, but useful in few instances only, it is still most wor
thy of estimation, and to be considered of no moderate
value. Of this, the Egyptians seem to have been well
aware; their discoveries of the great faculties of this science
have exceeded those of, other nations, and they have in all
cases combined the medical art with astronomical prognos
tication. ‘ And, had they been of opinion that all expected
events are unalterable and not to be averted, they never
would have instituted any propitiations, remedies, and pre
servatives against the inﬂuence of the Ambient, whether
present or approaching, general or particular. But, by
Chap. 111.] g PTOLEMY’S TETRABIBLOS. ~ 19
means of the science called by' them Medical Mathematics,
they combined with the power of prognostication thc‘con
current secondary inﬂuence arising out of the institutions
and courses of nature, as well as, the contrary inﬂuence
which might be procured out of nature’s variety; and by
means of these they rendered the indicated agency useful
and advantageous: since their astronomy pointed out to
them the kind of temperament liable to be acted upon, as
well as the events about to proceed from the Ambient, and
the peculiar inﬂuence of those events, vwhile theirs medical
skill made them acquainted with every thing suitable or un~
suitable to each of the effects to be produced. And it is
by this process that remedies for present and preservatives
against future disorders are to he acquired ; for, without as
tronomical knowledge, medical aid would be mostfrequently
unavailing ; since the same identical remedies are not better
calculated for all persons whatsoever, than they are for all
diseases whatsoever *. . .
The practicability and utility of prescience having been
thus far brieﬂy explained, the ensuing discourse must be
proceeded with. It commences, introductorily, with an
account of the efﬁcient properties of each of the heavenly
bodies, taken from the rules of the antients, whose obser
vations were founded in nature.—And, ﬁrst, of the inﬂuences
of the planets and of the Sun and Moon.
Grbaptzr' IV.
. The Inﬂuences of the Planetary Orbs.
THE Sun-r is found to produce heat and'moderate dry
ness. His magnitude, and the changes which he'so
evidently makes in the. seasons, render his power more
* This seems to explain the origin of the old alliance between
medicine and astrology, so universally preserved until almost within
the last century.
1 It will be recollectcd that the Ptolemaic hypothesis considers
2O PTOLEMY’S rs'rnamnms. [Book I.
plainly perceptible than that of the other heavenly bodies;
since his'approach to the zenith of any part of the earth
creates a greater degree of heat in that part, and proporti
onately disposes its inhabitants after his own nature. '
The Moon principally generates moisture; her proximity
to the earth renders her highly capable of exciting damp
vapours, and of thus operating sensibly upon animal bodies
by relaxation and putrefaction. She has, however, also a
moderate share in the production of heat, in consequence
of the illumination she receives from the Sun.
Saturn produces cold and dryness, for he is most remote
both from the Sun’s heat and from the earth’s vapours.
But he is more etfective in the production of cold than of
dryness. And he and the rest of the planets derive their
energy from the positions which they hold with regard to
the Sun and Moon ; and they are all seen to alter the con
stitntion of the Ambient in various ways.
Mars chieﬂy causes dryness, and is also strongly heating,
by means of his own ﬁery nature, which is indicated by his
colour, and in consequence of his vicinity to the Sun; the
sphere of which is immediately below him.
Jupiter revolves in an intermediate sphere between the
extreme cold of .Saturn and the burning heat of Mars, and
has consequently a temperate influence: he therefore at
once promotes both warmth and moisture. But, owing to
the spheres of Mars and the Sun, which lie beneath him, his
warmth is predominant: and hence he produces fertilizing
breezes. -
To Venus also the same temperate quality belongs, 'al
though it exists conversely; since the heat she produces by
her vicinity to the Sun is not so great as the moisture
which she generates by the magnitude of her light, and by
the Sun as a planetary orb, in consequence of his apparent progress
through the zodiac. .
Chap, v.1 mommy’s TBTRABIBLOS. 21
appropriating to herself the meist vapours of the earth, in
the same manner that the Moon does.
Mercury sometimes produces dryness, and at other times
moisture, and each with equal vigour. His faculty of ab
sorbing moisture and creating dryness proceeds from his si
tuation with regard to the Sun, from which he is at no time
far distant in longitude 5 and, on the other hand, he produces
moisture, because he borders upon the Moon’s sphere, which
is nearest to the earth ; and, being thus excited by the velo
city of his motion with the Sun, he consequently operates
rapid changes tending to produce alternately either quality.
65am: V.
Beneﬁcs and Maleﬁcs.
OF the four temperaments or qualities above mentioned,
two are nutritive and proliﬁc, viz. heat and moisture; by
these all matter coalesces and is nourished: the other two
are noxious and destructive, viz. dryness and cold; by these
all matter is decayed and dissipated.
Therefore, two of the planets, on account of their tempe
rate quality, and because heat and moisture are predominant
in them, are considered by the antients' as beneﬁc, or
causers of good: these are Jupiter and Venus. And the
Moon also is so considered for the same reasons.
But Saturn and Mars are esteemed of a contrary nature,
and maleﬁc, or causers of evil :-——the ﬁrst from his excess of
cold, the other from his excess of dryness.
The Sun and Mercury are deemed of common inﬂuence,
and productive either of good or evil in unison with whate
ver planets they may be connected with.
ethaer VI.
Masculine and Feminine.
THERE are two primary sexes, male and female; and the
female sex partakes chieﬂy of moisture. The Moon and
22 _ woman’s TETRABIBLOS. [Book I.
Venus are therefore said to be feminine, since their qualities
are principally moist.
The Sun, Saturn, Jupiter, and Mars are called masculine.
Mercury is common to both genders, because at certain
times he produces dryness, and at others moisture, and
performs each in an equal ratio.
The stars, however, are also said to be masculine and
feminine, by their positions with regard to the Sun. While
they are matutine and preceding the Sun, they are mascu
line; when vespertine and following the Sun, they become
feminine *. . >
And they are further regulated in this respect by their
positions with regard to the horizon. From the ascendant
to the mid-heaven, or from the angle of the west to the
lower heaven, they are considered to be masculine, being
then oriental: and in the other two quadrants, feminine,
being then occidental.
chatmr VII.
Diurnal and Nocturnal.
THE day and the night are the visible divisions‘of time.
The day, in its heat and its aptitude for action, is mascu
linez—the night, in its moisture and its appropriation to'
rest, feminine.
Hence, again, the Moon and Venus are esteemed to be
nocturnal; the Sun and Jupiter, diurnal; and Mercury,
common; since in his matutine position he is diurnal, but
nocturnal when vespertine.
Of the other two planets, Saturn and Mars, which are
noxious, one is considered to be diurnal, and the other noc
' “ Astronomers call the planets matutine, when, being oriental
“ ﬁ'om the Sun, they are above the earth when he rises; and vesper
“tine, when they set after him.”—Moxon's Mathematical Dictionary.
Chap. VIII.] PTOLEMY’S TETRABIBLOS. - 23 -
turnal. Neither of them, hoWever, is allotted to that divi
sion of time with which its nature accords, (as heat accords
with heat), but each is disposed of on a contrary principle:
and for this reason, that, although the beneﬁt is increased
when a favottrable temperament receives an addition of its
own nature, yet, the evil arising from a pernicious inﬂuence
is much mitigated when dissimilar qualities are mingled
with that inﬂuence. Hence the coldness of Saturn is allotted
to the day, to counterbalanceits heat; and the dryness of
Mars to the night, to counterbalance its moisture. Thus!
each of these planets, being moderated by this combination,
is placed in a condition calculated to produce a favourable
temperament *.
Chapter VIII.
The Inﬂuence of Position with regard to the Sun,
THE respective powers of the Moon and of the three supe
rior planets are either augmented or diminished by their
several positions with regard to the Sun.
The Moon, during her increase, from her ﬁrst emerging
to her ﬁrst quarter, produces chiefly moisture: on continu
ing her increase from her ﬁrst quarter to her full state of
illumination, she causes heat ; from her full state to her third
quarter she causes dryness; and from her third quarter to
her occultation she causes cold.
The planets, when matutine, and from their ﬁrst emerging
until they arrive at their ﬁrst station, are chieﬂy productive
of moisture; from their ﬁrst station until they rise at night,
' Whalley here appends the following note:""l‘0 this chapter
“ may be properly added, that a planet is said to be diurnal, when, in
“ a diurnal'nativity, above the earth; and, in a nocturnal nativity,
“ under the earth: but nocturnal, when, in a nocturnal nativity,
“ above the earth; or, in a diurnal nativity, under the earth."
24 rromsm’s TBTRABIBLos. [Book I.
of heat; from their rising at night until their second sta
tion, of dryness ; and from their second station until their
occultation, they produce cold _
But it is also suﬂiciently plain that they must likewise
cause, by their intermixture with each other, many varieties
of quality in the Ambient: because, although their indivi
dual and peculiar inﬂuence may for the most part prevail,
it will still be more or less varied by the power of the other
heavenly bodies conﬁgurated with them.
@hapttv IX.
The Inﬂuence of the ﬁxed Stars.
NEXT in succession, it is necessary to detail the natures and
properties of the ﬁxed stars; all of which have their respec
tive inﬂuences, analogous to the inﬂuences of the planets :
and those stars which form the constellations of the zodiac
require to be ﬁrst described.
Aries.
The stars in the head of Aries possess an inﬂuence simi
lar in its effects to that of Mars and Saturn: those in the
mouth act similarly to Mercury, and in some degree to
‘ Although all the positions mentioned in this paragraph are not.
applicable to Venus and Mercury, which can never rise at night,
that is to say, at sunset, and although the author in the beginning of
the chapter speaks only of the Moon and the three superior planets,
there yet seems no reason why the orbits of Venus and Mercury
should not be similarly divided by their inferior and superior conjunc
tions, and their greatest elongations.
The following is from Whaliey : “ The ﬁrst station, in this chap
“ ter mentioned, is when a planet begins to be retrograde; and the
“ second station when, from retrogradation, a planet becomes direct
“ They" (the planets) “ begin to rise at night when in opposition to
u the Sun."
pr.,IX.] menu’s TBTRABIBLos. 25
Saturn; those in the binder foot, to Mars; those in the
tail, to Venus.
Taurus.
Those stars in Taurus, which are in the abscission of the
sign, resemble in their temperament the inﬂuence of Venus,
and in some degree that of Saturn: those in the Pleiades are
like the Moon and Mars. Of the stars in the head, that
one of the Hyades which is bright and ruddy, and called
Facula *, has the same temperament as Mars: the others
resemble Saturn, and, partly, Mercury; and those at the
top of the horns are like Mars.
Gemini.
The stars in the feet of Gemini have an inﬂuence similar
to that of Mercury, and moderately to that of Venus.
The bright stars in the thighs are like Saturn: of the two
bright stars on the heads, the one, which precedes and is
called Apollo 1-, is like Mercury; the other which follows,
called Hercules I, is like Mars.
Cancer.
The two stars in the eyes of Cancer are of the same in
ﬂuence as Mercury, and are also moderately like Mars.
Those in the claws are like Saturn and Mercury. The
nebulous mass in the breast, called the Praesepe, has the
same efﬁcacy as Mars and the Moon. The two placed on
either side of the nebulous mass, and called the Asini, have
an inﬂuence similar to that of Mars and the Sun.
Leo.
Of the stars in Leo, two in the head are like Saturn and
partly like Mars. The three in the neck are like Saturn,
"' The little Torch; now known by the name of Aldebaran. i
1~ Castor. I Pollux.
E
26 Proumv‘s raraanrnLos. {_ [Book I.
and in some degree like Mercury. The “bright one- in the
heart, called Regulus *, agrees with Mars. and .Jupiter.
Those in the loins, and the bright one in the tail, are like
Saturn and Venuszt those in the thighs resemble Venus,
and, in some degree, Mercury. ’
. I Virgo.
The stars in the head of Virgo, and that at the-top pf 1the
southern wing, operate like Mercury and somewhat like
Mars : the other bright stars in the same wing, and those
about the girdle, resemble Mercury in their inﬂuence, and
also Venus, moderately. The bright one in the northern
wing, called Vindemiator, is of the same inﬂuence as Saturn
and Mercury : that called Spica Virgiuis is like Venus and
partly Mars: those at the points of the feet and at the bot
tom of the garments are like Mercury, and also Mars, mo
derately.
Libra 1.
Those stars at the points of the claws of Scorpio operate
like Jupiter and Mercury: those in the middle of the claws,
like Saturn, and in some degree like Mars.
" Cor Leonis.
1' Called by the antients xnani, Chelae, or the claws of Scorpio;
which sign they made to consist of 60 degrees, omittin‘g Libra.
Thus Virgil in the ﬁrst Goorgic, line 88, Ste.
Quo locus Erigonen inter, Chclasque sequentes
Panditur: ipse tibi jam brachia contrahit ardens
Scorpius, et coeli justa plus parte reliquit.
Ovid, likewise, takes the following notice of Scorpio :—
Porrigit in spatium signorum membra‘duorum.
, ' Met. 2, l. 198.
/
Chap. 1X] r'romnv’s TETRABIBLos. 27
Scorpio.
The bright stars in the front of the body of Scorpio.
have an effect similar to that produced by the inﬂuence 0?
Mars, and partly to that produced by Saturn: the three in
the body itself, themiddle one of which, called Antares ’7‘,
is ruddy and more luminous, are similar to Mars and mode
rately to Jupiter: those in the joints of the tail are like
Saturn and partly like Venus: those in the sting, like Mer
cury and Mars. The nebula is like Mars and the Moon.
Sagittarius.
The stars at the point of the arrow in Sagittarius have
inﬂuence similar to that of Mars and the Moon: those on
the bow, and at the grasp of the hand, act like Jupiter and
Mars: the nebula in the 'face is like the Sun and Mars:
those in the waist and in the back resemble Jupiter, and
also Mercury moderately: those in the feet, Jupiter and
Saturn : the four-sided ﬁgure in the tail is similar to Venus,
and in some degree to Saturn.
Capricorn. \
The stars in the horns of Capricorn have eﬂicacy similar
to that of Venus, and partly to that of Mars. The stars in
the mouth are like Saturn, and partly like Venus: those in
the feet and in the belly act in the same manner as Mars and
Mercury: those in the tail are like Saturn and Jupiter. '
' Adams’s Treatise on the Globes calls this star “ Kalb al Akrab,
. or the vSoo'rpion’s heart,” and adds, that “the word Antares (if it is
not a corruption) has no signiﬁcation." But it should be observed
that Ptolemy states that this star partakes of the nature of Mars: it
seems therefore not improbable that Antares may be a regular Greek
word, compounded of am pro and up»: Mars, and signifying Mars":
deputy, or lieutenant, or one acting for Mars. -
28 , rroaanv’s rarasalsaos. [Book I.
Aquarius.
The stars in the shoulders of Aquarius operate like Saturn
and Mercury; those in the left hand and in the face do the
same: those in the thighs have an inﬂuence more consonant
with that of Mercury, and in a less degree with that of
Saturn : those in the stream of water have power similar to
that of Saturn, and, moderately, to that of Jupiter.
I vPisces.
Those stars in Pisces, which are in the head of the south
ern fish, have the same inﬂuence as Mercury, and, in some
degree, as Saturn: those in the body are like Jupiter and
Mercury: those in 'the tail and in the southern line are
like Saturn, and, moderately, like Mercury. In the northern
ﬁsh, those on its body and back-bone resemble Jupiter,
and also Venus in some degree: those in the northern line
are like Saturn and Jupiter; and the bright star in the knot
acts like Mars, and moderately like Mercury *.
Qrbaptzr X.
Constellations North of the Zodiac.
THE constellations north of the zodiac have their respec
tive inﬂuences, analogous to those of the planets, existing
in the mode described in the following list.
“ Salmon, in his “ Horse Mathematieas, or Soul of Astrology"
(printed by Dawks 1679) divides each sign of the zodiac into six
faces of ﬁve degrees each, “ because that in every sign there are
“ various stars of diﬂ'ering natures ;” and he gives a particular de
scription toieach face, depending on its ascension or culmination
This seems an attempt to adapt Ptolemy’s signiﬁcation of the seve
ral stars, composing the diﬂerent signs, to some general rule or mode
of judgment: but it does not merit the implicit assent of astrolo
gers. It is understood that Salmon was not the inventor of this di
vision of the signs into faces, but that it came originally from the
Arabian schools.
Chap. X.) mum’s TBTRABlBLos. 29
Ursa Minor. The bright stars in this constellation are like
Saturn, and in some degree like Venus.
Ursa Major. is like Mars, but the nebula under the tail re
“ sembles the Moon and Venus in its inﬂuence.
Draco . . . . The bright stars operate like Saturn and Mars.
Ccpheus . -. is like Saturn and Jupiter. -,
Bootes . . . is like Mercury and Saturn; but the bright,
and ruddy star, called Arcturus, is like Mars
and Jupiter.
Corona Borealis' is like Venus and Mercury.
Hercules (or the Kneeler) is like Mercury.
Lyra . . r is like Venus and Mercury.
Cygnus . . '. Venus and Mercury.
Cassiopeia . . . Saturn and Venus.
Perseus . . . Jupiter and Saturn: but the nebula, in
the hilt of the sword, is like Mars and
Mercury. .
Auriga L . . . . The bright stars are like Mars
' and Mercury.
Serpentarius . . . is like Saturn, and moderately like
Venus.
Serpens . ‘ . r . . . is like Saturn and Mars.
Sagitta . . . . . . . Saturn, and moderately like
Venus.
Aquila . . . . . is like Mars and Jupiter.
Delphinus . . . . . . Saturn and Mars.
(or Pegasus) The bright stars are like Mars and
Mercury.
Andromeda . . . . is like Venus.
Delta (or the Triangle) . . Mercury.
'30 [Book I.
ProLan’s ,TETRABIBLos. 4
ﬁlfhapttr “XI.
Constellatious South of theZodiac.
THE inﬂuences of the'constellations south of the zodiac,
existing in a similar mode, are as follow:—
Piscis Australis . .
Cetus . .
Orion . . .
Fluoius, or Eridanus.
Canis .- .. . ».
Procyort *
Hydrus . . .
Crater . . . ~ .
Corvus . . . .
Argo. .
Centaurus
The bright star in .the mouth is vof
the same :inﬂuence as Venus. and Mer
‘ cury.
is like Saturn.
The stars on the shoulders operate si
milarly to Mars and Mercury; and the
other bright stars to Jupiter and Sa
turn.
The last bright one is of the same
inﬂuence as Jupiter; the rest are like
Saturn.
is like Saturn and Mercury.
The brightlstar in the mouth islike
Jupiter, and partly like Mars: the
others are like Venus.~ " I ' _
The brighttstar is like Mercury, and
in some degree like Mars. .
. The bright stars are like Saturn and
Venus.
is like Venus,.and in some-degree like
Mercury. . , I
is like Mars and Saturn.
. The. bright stars are like Saturn and
Jupiter.
The stars in the human part of the
ﬁgure are of the same inﬂuence as
Venus and Mercury: the bright stars
' Canis Minor.
Chap. Xll.] PTOLEMY’S TETRABInLos. 31
- in the horse’s-part are like 'Venusand
Jupiter. ' \
Lupus . . . The bright stars 'are like 'Saturn,.and
-' :r' partly, like Mars;
Ara . . . . .' .‘ ‘is like Venus,vand also Mercury in
, I some1deg'ree. ‘ ,_ _ j,{,_
Corona Australis . . The-bright vsitars-tareilike .Saturn'and
-_ I ~ " 'r Jupiter. "My, ,_.<._:
Theirespective. inﬂuences 'of the several esters have;
observedzby the antients to operate in canformity.,with the
'modezpointed out in the foregoing distributions I' i f
“thaptn: XII,
I) n
The Annual Seasons.
THE year comprises four seasons; spring,»summer, autumn,
and winter: of these, the springspartakes' chieﬂy._oflmois
A ture, for on the dissipation of cold and recommencement
of warmth, an expansion of the ﬂuids takes place: the
summer is principally. hot, owing to the Sun’s nearest ap
proach to the zenith: the autumn is principallyvdry, be
cause the recent heat has absorbed the moisture: and the
winter is chieﬂy cold, the Sun being then 'at his farthest
distance from the zenith.
The beginning of the whole'zodiacal circle, (which in
“ “ Of the ﬁxed stars in general,” Whalley says, “ those‘ of the
greatest magnitude are the most efﬁcacious; and those in, or near,
the ecliptic, more powerful than those more remote from it. They
with north latitude and declination affect us most. They in the
zenith, inﬂuence more than others, more remote. Likewise such
as are in partile conjunction with, or in the antiscions of any pla
net, or which rise and set, or culminate with any planet, or are
beheld by any planet, have an increase of power: but of them
selvesthe ﬁxed stars emit no rays.”
‘a
‘o.
lO\
l a
l n
Ia
o. n
32 ’ mum’s TB'I‘RABmLos. [Book 1.
its nature as a circle can have no other beginning, nor end,
capable of being determined,) is therefore assumed to be
the sign of Aries, which commences at the vernal equinox *:
since the moisture of spring forms a primary beginning in
the zodiac, analogous to the beginning of all animal life;
which, in its ﬁrst age of existence, abounds principally in
moisture: the spring too, like the ﬁrst age of animal life,
is soft and tender; it is therefore suitably placed as the
opening of the year, and is followed by the other seasons
in appropriate succession. The summer comes second,
and, in its vigour and heat, agrees with the second age of
animals; the prime of life, and the period most abounding
in heat. Again, the age when the prime of life has passed
away, and in which decay prepares to advance, is chieﬂy
abundant in dryness, and corresponds to the autumn. And
the. ﬁnal' period of old age, hastening to dissolution, is
principally cold, like the winter.
@bapttr XIII.
The Inﬂuence of the Four Angles.
THE angles are the four cardinal points of the horizon,
whence are derived the general names of the winds. With
* This sentence shews the futility of the objection raised against
astrology (and mentioned in the Preface to this translation) that
the signs have changed and are changing places. It is clear
from this sentence that Ptolemy ascribes to the 30 degrees after the
vernal equinox, that inﬂuence which he has herein mentioned to
belong to Aries; to the next 80 degrees, the inﬂuence herein said
to belong to Taurus; and so of the rest of the zodiac. \Ve should
rather say thatithe stars have changed places, than that the parts of
heaven, in. which they Were once situated, have done so. Ptolemy
himself seems to have foreseen this groundless objection of the
modems, and has written,'i'n the 25th chapter of this book," what
ought completely to have prevented it. It has certainly been one
of the misfortunes of astrology to be attacked by people entirely
ignorant of its principles.
\
Chap. XIII.] Prommv’s TETRABi'BLOs. 33
respect to their qualities, it is to be observed that the eastern “
point, or angle of the ascendant, is chieﬂy dry in its nature;
because, on the Sun’s arrival therein, theda'mps occasioned
by the night begin to be dried up : and all winds blowing
from that quarter, under the common name of east winds,
are arid and free. from moisture.
The southern point, or angle of the mid-heaven, is the
most hot; because the Sun’s meridian position, which pro
duces greater warmth I-and heat, declines (in this part of the
.earth,) towards the south. The winds, therefore, which
blow from that quarter, and are commonly called south
winds, are. hot and rarefying. - -
The western point, or occidental angle, is moist; because,
when the Sun is there, the moisture, which had been over
powered during the clay, recommences its operation: and
the winds proceeding from thence, and commonly called
west winds, are light and damp.
The northern point, or angle of the lower heaven, is the
most cold; for the Sun’s meridian position in this part of
the earth is far removed from it in declination: and all
winds thence proceeding, under the common name of north
I winds,,are cold and frosty. . i
It will, of course, be seen that a thorough acquaintance
with the foregoing matters is essential in order to'acquire
the faculty of distinguishing temperaments in every shape
and variation: since it is sufﬁciently obvious that the eﬂ'ect
tive inﬂuence of the stars must be greatly diversiﬁed .by
the constitutions of the seasons, as well as those of the ages
of life, and of the angles; and also that the stars have a
much stronger inﬂuence on any constitution, when there
may not be in it any tendency contrary to their own, as
the whole inﬂuence is then entire and unalloyed. For
example, stars effecting heat operate more vigorously in
constitutions of heat ; and those effecting moisture in
/ constitutions of moisture. > On the other hand, should
F
34 motsuv’s TETRABIBLOS. [Book I.
a tendency, contrary to their own, exist in any consti
tution, the stars accordingly become less efﬁcacious; in
consequence of being attempered and'rnixed with that con
trary tendency: and this happens, for instance, when stars
effecting heat are attempered by constitutions of cold, or
stars producing moisture by constitutions of dryness. The
inﬂuence of every star is thus modiﬁed by the proportionate
admixture .presented by constitutions of a nature diﬂ'erent
from its own.
In succession to the previous instructions, the following
description of the natural and peculiar properties of the
signs of the zodiac is annexed: the general temperaments
of the signs are analogous to those of the seasons, which
are respectively established under each sign, but they have,
also, certain peculiar energies, arising from their familiarity
with the Sun, the'Moon, and the stars, which shall be here
after speciﬁed ;-and the simple and unmixed inﬂuences
existing in the signs, as considered only in themselves and
with regard to each other, will be ﬁrst stated.
ttbaptu: xrv.
Tropical, Equinoctial, Fixed, and Bicorporeal Signs.
AMONG the'twelve signs, some are termed tropical, others
equinoctial, others ﬁxed, and others bicorporeal.
The tropical signs are two : viz. the ﬁrst thirty degrees
after the summer solstice, which compose the sign of Can
cer; and the ﬁrst thirty degrees after the winter solstice,
composing the sign of Capricorn. These are called tropical,
because the Sun, after he has arrived at their ﬁrst points,
seems to turn, and to change his course towards a contrary
latitude ’7‘; causing summer by the tum he makes in Can
'cer, and winter by that which he makes in Capricorn. ,
There are alsotwo equinoctial signs: Aries, the ﬁrst
' In other words, the Sun than begins to diminish his dealination,
which, at the ﬁrst points of the said signs, is at its greatest amount.
Uzap. XIV.] ProtnMv’s 'fETRA-BIBLOS. 35
after the vernal equinox ; and Libra, the ﬁrst after the au
tumnal equinox : they are so called, because the Sun, when
in the ﬁrst point ofeither, makes the day and night equal.
Of the remaining eight signs, four are ﬁxed, and four
bicorporeal. Those signs, which severally follow immediately
\ after the two tropical and the two equinoctial signs, are
termed ﬁxed, because, during the Sun’s preseilce in them,
the cold, heat, moisture or dryness, of the season, which
commenced on his arrival in the preceding tropical or equi
noctial sign, is then more ﬁrmly established :—-not, however,
that the temperament of the season has in itself actually
increased in vigour, but, having continued for some time
in operation, it then renders all things more strongly affected ,
by its inﬂuence.
The bicorporeal- signs severally follow the ﬁxed signs;
and, being thus intermediater placed between the ﬁxed and
.the tropical signs, they participate in the constitutional pro
perties of both, from their ﬁrst to-their last degrees.
thapttr XV.
Masculine and Feminine Signs.
AGAIN, among the twelve signs, six are called masculine
and diurnal, and six feminine and nocturnal. They are
arranged in alternate order, one after the other, as the day is
followed by the night, and as the male is coupled with the
female.
The commencement, it has been already said, belongs to
Aries; since the moisture of the spring forms an introduc
tion for the other seasons. And, as the male sex governs,
and the active principle takes precedence of the passive, the
signs of Aries and Libra are consequently considered to be
masculine and diurnal. These signs describe the equinoc
tial circle, and from them proceed the principal variation,
and most powerful agitation, of all-“things. The signs im
mediately following them are feminine and nocturnal; and
36 P'roLEMv’s TETRABIBLOS. [Book I,
the rest are consecutively arranged as masculine and'femi
nine, by alternate order. ‘
Masculine or feminine qualities are, however, by some
persons, attributed to (the signs by means of a different
arrangement, and by making the sign ascending (which is
also called the horoscope) the ﬁrst of the masculine signs.
They also consider the ﬁrst tropical sign to be thatin which
the MoOn is posited, because she undergoes more frequent
and rapid changes and variations than any other heavenly
body; and it is by a similar mode of reasoning that \they
establish the horoscope as the ﬁrst masculine sign, on
account of its being more immediately under the Sun.
jAgain, certain of these persOns likewise allow the alternate
arrangement ofthe signs ; while there are, again, others who
do‘not admit it ;-but, instead thereof, divide'the whole
zodiac-into quadrants, and denominate those betWee'n the
ascendant and the mid-heaven, and, between. the western
angle and. the lower heaVens Oriental and masculine; and
the other two quadrants, occidental and feminine.
There have also been other additional appellations bestow
ed on the signs,-in consequence of thein apparent formations
and ﬁgures :--they \havelbeen called quadrupedaly terrestrial
imperial, fruitfulhandghayel received Nations other dist -
giiishing epithets,of.the ,same sort ;*-but these distinctions
seem toounimportant to be even. enumerated here, since
their origin is obvious, and since, should they ever be
thought‘serviceable towards the; inference, of future eﬁ'ects,
they-may be easily applied without'the, aid of further instruc
tion..1li~‘l
' erbaptzr XVI.
' - Mutual ,Qonﬁguratimw qﬁtlle Signs.
THERE are certain famil'iarities or. connections between
diﬁ'erent parts of therzodiac‘; and the chief of these is that
which exists between sueh'parts» as-are‘ ccnﬁgurstedwith
“J
caCh.°‘the§~j - ILA'; -> . a .5
Chap. XVI.] PTOLEMY'S TETRABIBLOS. 37
. This mutual \conﬁgur-ation attaches to all parts‘diame
trically distant from each other, containing between them
two right angles, or ‘six signs, 01' ‘a hundred and eighty
degrees: it also exists'inall parts at the triangulardistance
from each other, containing between them one right angle
and a third, or four signs, or a hundred and twenty degrees;
also, in all parts at the quadrate distance from each other,
containing between them exactly one right angle, or three
signs, or ninety degrees ; and, also, in all parts at the hex-‘
agonal distance from each other, containing between them
two-thirds of a right angle, or twO‘ signs, or sixty degrees".
as
| .
..l|"
‘* Whalley, in his note upon this chapter, seems to have been sur
prised that no mention is made here by Ptolemy of the cory'rinction;
but be overlooked the fact that the chapter treats only of parts of the
zodiac conﬁgurated with each other; and’that it was not possible for
Ptolemy to conceive how any part could be conﬁgurated with itself;
It is, therefore, by no means Wonderful that the conjunctionris hot
inserted here along with the rest of the aspects; although itis'fre.
quently adverted to in subsequent chapters, and its eﬁcacy .pgrtiqu.
larly'described. ‘ ‘ " '
38 ProLnMv’s TETRABIBLOS. [Book I.
These several distances are taken for the following reasons :
--the distance by diameter, however, is in itself sufﬁciently
clear, and requires no further explanation ;—but, as to the
rest, after the diametrieal points have been connected by a
straight line, AB; the space of the two right angles, con
tained on the diameter, is then to be divided into aliquot
parts of the two greatest denominations ; that is to say, into
halves, AFC, CFB, and into thirds, AFD, DFE, EFB :
there will then be provided for the third part (AD) a super
proportion (DC), equal to its own half; and for the half
(AC) a super-proportion (CE), equal to its own third part ;
so that the division into two aliquot parts, AC, CB, will
make the quartile distance AC; and the division into three
aliquot parts, AD, DE, EB, will make the sextile distance
AD, and the triual distance AE. The respective super
proportions (on either side of the intermediate quartile AC,
formed by the one right angle AFC), will also again make
the quartile AC, (if there be added to the sextile, AD, the
super-proportion DC, equal to the half of the sextile), and:
the trine AE (if there be added to the quartile AC the super
proportion CE, equal to the third part of the quartile).
Of these conﬁgurations, the trine and the sextile are each
called harmonious, because they are constituted between
signs of the same kind; being farmed between either all
feminine or all masculine signs. The opposition and quar
tile are considered to be discordant, because they are con
ﬁgurations made between signs not of the same kind, but of
different natures and sexes“.
" Fromthe tenor ofthis chapterit was formerly doubted whether the,
author intended to admit in his theory only zodiacal aspects, and to re-1
ject those which are called mundane; but Placidus has referred to the
4th Chapter of the 8th Book of the Almagest (which will be found in
the Appendix to this translation) to prove that Ptolemy distinctly
taught two kinds of aspect; one in the zodiac and one in the world~
Gimp, XVIIIJ P'roumv’s TETRABIBLOS. 39
engages XVII.
Signs commanding and obeyin".
ANY two signs conﬁgurated with each other at an equal
distance from the same, or from either equinoctial point, are
termed commanding and obeying, because the ascensional
and descensional times of the one are equal to those of the
other, and both describe equal parallels.
The signs in the summer semicircle are commanding;
those in the winter semicircle, obeying: for, when the Sun
is present in the former, he makes the day longer than the
night; and, when in the latter, he produces the contrary
eﬂ'ect. ‘
@hapm- XVIII.
Signs beholding. each other, and of equal P0wer..
ANY two signs, equally distant from either tropical sign,
are equal to each other in power; because the Sun, when
present in one, makes day and night, and the divisions of
'time, respectively equal in duration to those which he pro
duces when present in the other. Such signs are also said
to behold each other, as well for the foregoing reasons, as
because each of them rises from one and the same part of
the horizon, and sets in one and the same part*.
Whalley quotes the opinion of Placidus, which he says is farther con
ﬁrmed by the 12th Chapter of the 3d Book of this very treatise, where
it is stated that the ascendant and the eleventh house are in sextile
to each other; the ascendant and the mid-heaven in quartile; the
ascendant and the ninth house in trine; and the ascendant and the
occidental angle in oPposition ; all which certainly seems to be appli
cable to mundane aspects in particular.
* Whalley has a. very lengthy note upon this and the preceding
chapter, to shew that Ptolemy here speaks of zodiacal parallels, or
parallels of declination, and to point out the necessity of observ
inga planet’s latitude, in order to ascertain its true parallels. It
40 promnv’s TETRABIBLOS. [Book I.
ethapm XIX.
Signs inconjunct.
ALL signs, between which there does not exist any fami
liarity in any of the modes above speciﬁed, are ineonjunct
and separated.
For instance, all signs are inconjunct which are neither
commanding nor obeying, .and not beholding each other
nor of equal power, as well as all signs which contain' be
tween them the space of one sign only, or the space of ﬁve
signs, and which do not at all share in any of the four pre
scribed conﬁgurations: viz. the opposition, the trine, the
quartile, and the sextile. All parts which are distant from
each other in the space of one sign only are considered in
conjunct, because they are averted, as it were, from each
other; and because, although the said space between them
may extend into two signs, the whole only contains an angle
equal to that of one sign : all parts distant from each other
in the space of ﬁve signs are also considered inconjunct,
because they divide the whole circle into unequal parts;
whereas the spaces contained in the conﬁgurations above
mentioned, viz. the opposition, trine, quartile, and sextile,
produce aliquot divisions“.
\
is, however, to be recollected, that the parallels now alluded to are
distinct from the mundane parallels, which are equal distances from tho
-_ horizon or meridian, and are considered by Ptolemy in the 14th and
15th Chapters ofthe 8d Book of this work ;-—although not under the
express name of mundane parallels.
" It has never been very clearly shown how the followers of
Ptolemy have reconciled the new [aspects called the semiquadrate,
quintile, sesquiquadrate, biquintile, &c.] with the veto pronouncediin
this chapter. Kepler is said to have invented them, and they have
been universally adopted; even Placidus, who has applied Ptolemy's
doctrine to practice better than any other writer, has availed himself
C'lmp. XX.] P'l‘OLl-ZMY’S TETRABIBLOS. 4'
chapter XX.
Houses of the Planets.
Taosn stars which are denominated planetary orbs have
particular familiarity with certain places in the zodiac, by
of them“, and, if the nativities published by him are to‘he credited,
he has fully established their importance.
salmon, in his “Horas Mathemaﬁcte,” beforementioned, gives a.
long dissertation (from p. 403 to p. 414) on the old Ptolemaic aspects,
illustrative of their foundation in nature and in mathematics; and,
although his conclusions are not quite satisfactorily drawn, some of
his arguments Would seem appropriate, if he had but handled them
more fully and expertly; particularly where he says that the aspects
' are derived “ from the aliquot parts of a circle, wherein observe that,
“ although the zodiac may have many more aliquot parts than these ‘
“ four (the sextile, quartile, trine, and opposition), yet those other
“ aliquot parts of the circle, or 360 degrees, will not make an aliquot
“ division of the signs also, which in this design was sought- to an
“ swer, as well in the number 12, as in the number 860.” The pas
sage in which he endeavours to shew that they are authorized by their
projection, also deserves attention. .
All Salmim’s arguments, however, in support of the old Ptolemaic
aspects, militate against the new Keplerian ones; and so does the.
following extract from the “Apology” of Sir Christopher Heydon:
—“ For thus, amongst all ordinate planes that may be inscribed,
“ there are two whose sides, joined together, havepre-omine'hce to
“ take up a semicircle, but only the hexagon, quadrate, and equii
“ lateral triangle, answering to the sextile, quartile, and trine irra
“ diated. The subtense, therefore, of a sextile aspect censisteth of
“ two signs. Which, jOiued to the subtense of a. trine, composed of
‘* four, being regular and equilateral, take up six signs, which is a
“ complete semicircle. In like manner, the sides of.a quadrate in
“ scribed, subtending three signs, twice reckoned, do occupy likewise
“ the mediety ofa circle. And what those ﬁgures are before said to
“ perform" (that is, to take up a semicircle) “either doubled or
" Except the semiquaiirate, which he has not at all noticed.
G
42 ‘ P'roumv’s 'rETRABrnLos. [Book I.
means of parts designated as their houses, and also by
their triplicities, exaltations, terms, and so forth.
The nature of their familiarity by houses is as follows :
Cancer and Leo are the most northerly of all the twelve
signs; they approach nearer than the other signs to the
zenith of this part of the earth, and thereby cause warmth
and heat: they are consequently appropriated as houses for
the two principal and greater luminaries; Leo for the Sun,
'as being masculine; and Cancer for the Moon, as being
feminine. It has hence resulted, that the semicircle from
Leo to Capricorn has been ordained solar, and the semicircle
from Aquarius to Cancer, lunar; in order that each planet
might occupy one sign in each semicircle, and thus have
one of its houses configurated with the Sun and the other
with ‘the Moon, conformany to the motions of its own
sphere, and the peculiar properties of its nature.
Saturn, therefore, since he is cold and inimical to heat,
moving also in a superior orbit most remote from the lumi
naries, occupies the signs opposite to Cancer and Leo : these
are Aquarius and Capricorn ; and they are assigned to him
in consideration of their cold and wintry nature; and be
cause the conﬁguration by opposition does not co-operate
towards the production of good".
Jupiter has a favourable temperament, and is situated
beneath the sphere of Saturn; he therefore occupies the
next two signs, Sagittarius and Pisces. These signs are
“ joined together, may also be truly ascribed unto the opposite as
“ pect by itself; for that the diametral line, which paseth from the .
“ place of conjunction to the opposite point, divideth a circle into
“two equal parts: the like whereof cannot be found in any other
“ inscripts; for example, the side Q)"a regular pentagon"(the quintile)
“ s-ubtendeth 72 degrees, of an octagon" (the semiquadrate) “ but 45 ;
“the remainders of which arcs, viz. 108 and 135 degrees, are not sub—
“ tended by the sides ofany ordinate ﬁgure.”
* Saturn being also maleﬁc inthis nature.
Chap. XXL] Prom-:Mv’s TE'I‘RABIBLOS. I 43
airy and fruitful, in consequence of their trinal distance from
the houses of the luminaries, which distance harmonizes
with the operation of good.
Mars is dry in nature, and beneath the sphere ‘of Jupiter :
he takes the next two signs, of a nature similar to his own,
viz. Aries and Scorpio, whose relative distances from the
houses of the luminaries are injurious and discordant.
Venus, possessing a favourable temperament, and placed
beneath the sphere of Mars, takes the next two signs, Taurus
and Libra. These are of a fruitful nature, and preserve
harmony by the sextile distance; and this planet is never
more than two signs distant from the Sun.
Mercury never has greater distance from the Sun than
the space of one sign, and is beneath all the other planets:
hence he'iis'nearest to both luminaries, and the remaining
two signs, Gemini and Virgo, are allotted to him*.
thaptzr XXI.
The 'D'iplricit'ies.
THE familiarity existing by triplicity arises in the follow
ing mode : Y
The triplicity preserves accordance with an equilateral
triangle, and the whole zodiacal orbit is deﬁned by three
circles, viz. that of‘the equinox, and those of the two
tropics; the twelve signs are, therefore, distributed among
four equilateral triangles.
* The planets, having two houses, are said to be more powerful in
one by day and in the other by night: thus,
Saturn’s day house is Aquarius, his night house Capricorn
Jupiter’s -— Sagittarius Pisces
Mars’s —-—- Aries ——- Scorpio
Venus’s -— Taurus -— Libra
Mercury’s —— Gemini —- Virgo.
The above is from Whalley; but the same disposition is to be found
in all modern astrological writers.
44 mommy’s TETRABIBLOS. [Book I.
The ﬁrst triangle, or triplicity, is formed by three mas
culine signs, Aries, Leo, and Sagittarius, having the Sun,
Jupiter, and Mars, as lords by house. Mars, however,
being contrary in condition to the solar inﬂuence, this tri
plicity receives, as its lords, only Jupiter and the Sun. By
day, therefore, the Sun claims the principal co~regency of
it, and Jupiter by night. Aries is on the equinoctial circle,
Leo on the summer, and Sagittarius on the winter circle.
This triplicity'is principally northern, owing to the coucur
rent dominion of; Jupiter, who is fruitful and airy, and ex
pressly connected with winds proceeding from the north 5 it
is, however, also north~West, in consequence of being, in
some degree, combined with the west by means of the house
of Mars, who introduces western breezes and the feminine
qualities of that quarter, in consequence of his lunar con
vtlition"*.
The second triplicity, formed by Taurus, Virgo, and Ca
pricorn, is allotted to the dominion of the Moon and Venus,
since it consists of feminine signs. The Moon rules it by
night, and Venus by day. Taurus is on the summL-c circle,
Virgo on the equinoctial, and Capricorn on the' winter.
This triplicity is southern, in consequence of the dominiOn
of Venus, whose warm and moist inﬁuente produces south
'winds: it, however, additionally receives a mixture of the
east, by means of Saturn; for, as Capricorn is the house
of that planet, and an eastern sign, Saturn becomes effec
tive of winds from that quarter, and furnishes this triplicity
with a mixture of the east, with which quarter he is further
connected by means of his solar condition-r.
The third triplicity is composed of Gemini, Libra, and
Aquarius, masculine signs. It holds connection with Saturn
" The “lunar condition" here spoken of refers to the position of
Aries (Mars’s house) in the lunar semicircle
f Capricorn being in the solar semicircle.
_ chm XXL] PTOLBMY’S TETRABIBLOS. 45
and Mercury by containing their houses, and is theretbre
attributed to them, and not to Mars, to which planet it
bears no relation. Saturn rules it by day, Owing to his
condition“, and Mercury by night. Gemini is on the
summer circle, Libra on the equinoctial, and Aquarius on
the winter. This triplicity is principally eastern, by the
inﬂuence of Saturn ; but it becomes north-east by receiving
also a mixture of the north from the condition of Jupiter,
with which planet Saturn has, in this resPect, a diurnal
familiarityt.
The fourth triplicity, formed by Cancer, Scorpio, and
Pisces, is left to the remaining planet, Mars, who has right
in it by means of his house, Scorpio. But, as the signs
which compose this triplicity are feminine, the Moon by
night and Venus by day, through their feminine condition,
7 govern it, together with Mars. Cancer is On the summer
circle, Scorpio on the winter, and Pisces on the equinoctial.
This triplicity is western, in consequence of the gOVernmem
of the Moon and Mars; but it is alio blended with the
south by the joint dominion of Venus, and therefore becomes
southwest.
enapm XXII;
Emaltations.
THAT which is termed the exaltation of the planets is con.
sidered by the following rules:
The Sun on his entrance into Aries is then passing into
the higher and more northern semicircle; but, on his em
trance into Libra, into the more southern and lower one;
his exaltation, therefore, is determined to be in Aries, as,
" The reason foi- making‘Satm-n diurnal lord of this triplicity may
be Mud in Chap. vii. .
f This thmiliaﬂty seems to arise from the seitile aspect betWeen
Aquarius, the diurnal house of Saturn, and Sagittarius, the diurnal
house of Jupiter. .
46 PTOLEMY’S TETRABIBLOS. [Book I.
when present in that sign, he begins to lengthen the days,
and the inﬂuence of his heating nature increases at the same
time. His fall is placed in Libra, for the converse reasons.
Saturn on the contrary, in order to preserve his station
opposite to the Sun, in this respect, as well as in regard to
their respective houses, obtains his exaltation in Libra, and
his ‘fall in Aries: since, in all cases, the increase of heat
must be attended by a diminution of cold, and the increase
of cold by a diminution of heat.
The Moon, again, after conjunction with the Sun in
Aries, the seat of his exaltation, makes her ﬁrst appearance,
and begins to augment her light in Taurus, the ﬁrst sign of
her. own triplicity, which is consequently ascribed to be her
exaltation ; while Scorpio, the opposite sign, is her fall.
, Il'upiter, since he is eﬁ'icacious in exciting fruitful breezes
from the north, and since he becomes most northerly, and
augments his peculiar inﬂuence when in Cancer, accordingly
obtains his exaltation in that sign, and his fall in Capricorn.
Mars possesses a ﬁery nature, which receives its greatest
intensity in Capricorn, in which sign this planet becomes
most southerly ; his exaltation is therefore placed in Capri
corn, in opposition to that of Jupiter, and his fall in Can
cer.
Venus is of a moist nature, and becomes chieﬂy moist
when in Pisces. Under that sign a dampness begins to be
perceptible in the atmosphere, and Venus, from being in
that sign, derives an augmentation of her own proper in
ﬂuence: her exaltation is consequently placed therein, and
her fall in Virgo. '
Mercury is of a nature oppoSite to that of Venus, and is
more dry: in opposition to her, therefore, he takes his ex
altation in Virgo, in which sign the autumnal dryness makes
its ﬁrst appearance; and he receives his fall in Pisces.
Chap. XXIIIJ ProLsMY’s TETRABIBLos. 47
@bupttr XXIII.
The Disposition qf the Terms
THERE are two methods of disposing the terms of the pla
nets, in reference to the dominion of the triplicities; one is
Egyptian, the other Chaldaic.
But the [Egyptian method preserves no regular distribu
tion, neither in point of successive order nor in point of
quantity.
In point of order it is defective, since it, in some in
stances, allots the ﬁrst degrees of a sign to the lord of the
house, in others to the lord of the triplicity, and in others
again to the lord of the exaltation. By selecting examples this
failure in order will easily be seen ; for instance, if the order
were regulated by the government of houses, for what reason
should Saturn take the ﬁrst degrees in Libra, since that sign is
the house of Venus'? orwhyshould Jupiter take them in Aries,
which is the house of Mars? If the government of tripli
cities were followed, for what reason should Mercury take
the ﬁrst degrees in Capricorn, which is in the triplicity ruled
by Venus ? If the government by exaltations, why should
Mars take the ﬁrst degrees in Cancer? that sign being the
exaltation of Jupiter. And if the order were regulated
even by considering the planet which possesses most of
\
" In reference to the terms of the planets, Placidus has these
words (according to Cooper’s translation): “ The dignity of the'
“ planets in the signs and their parts, which are called the bounds
“ and terminations,” (quasi, terms) “ have a real and natural foun
“ dation; to wit, the powerful aspect or proportional inﬂuxes to the
“ moveable points in which the stars begin to produce the primary
‘* qualities. So that, according to those things we have explained
“ in the philosophy of the heavens, these are found to agree so well
‘ with the Egyptian boundaries,” (terms) “ that they are highly de
“ serving of admiration.” '
'48 Protsmv-’s TBTRAmBLos. [Book I.
these dignities in the sign, for what reason should Mercury
take the ﬁrst degrees in Aquarius, in which sign he rules
only by triplicity, and why not Saturn, who has govem
ment in it by house, as well as by triplicity? or why in
short should Mercury, who does not passes: any kind of
dominion in Capricorn, receive the ﬁrst degrees in that sign
also? The same want of order is abundantly evident in the
rest of the distribution.
An equal irregularity exists in the respective quantities of
degrees allotted by the Egyptians to the several terms of
the planets. For it is by no means a proper nor sufﬁcient
demonstration of accuracy that the aggregate sum of all
the numbers of every single planet amounts to the precise
total requiring to be divided into portions of time * ; since,
even if it be admitted that this total, collected from every
single star, is correctly asserted by the Egyptians, it may
still be objected that the same total, so collected by them,
may be found in many other ways by interchanging the
numbers ina sign. There are persons also who contend
that in every latitude the same space of time is occupied in
ascension by every star; this, however, is manifestly wrong:
for, in the ﬁrst place, these persons are guided by the vulgar
opinion of the plane heights of ascension, which is totally
Foreign to truth, and according to which, in the parallel of
Lower Egypt, the signs of Virgo and Libra would ascend
each in thirty-eight degrees and a third f, and Leo and
Scorpio each in thirty-ﬁve degrees; when it is, on the con
trary, shown by the Tables I, that the latter two signs occupy
* This total is the 860 degrees of the zodiac, requiring to be di
vided according to correspondent portions of' the equator ; by which
all time is reckoned.
+ The degrees hove mentioned are degrees of the equator.
1800, in the Appendix, an extract from these tables; the whole of
which are to be found in the Almagest.
Chap. XXIII.] ProLnuY’s TETRABIBLOS. 49
in their several ascensions more than thirty-ﬁve degrees
each, but Virgo and Libra less. It should further be ob
served, that those who support this opinion seem (by so doing)
not only to dispute the quantity of the terms most generally
received, but to be driven also to the necessity of falsifying
many points; since (as it is indispensable to keep to the
same total amount of all the terms together) they make use
of parts of degrees ; but even that contrivance does not en
able them to reach the true point.
The old terms, admitted by many persons on the authority
of former tradition, are as follow:
The Terms according to the 'Egyptians.
L
up.
Cancer
_7
Gemini
er. 6
Taurus
en 8 8
eriﬁl
Aries
up er. 7 7
co
6
5
61
Venus 6 on. 6 l l I
"P
on 5i
Mercury 8 up. 8 . G 1 . 4
I~i3
Mars 5 up7 7
5
Saturn
Libra
,... N
l
Mercury 8 l1
Jupiter 7 3:21
Venus 7
2
Mars 30
Thus, by the Egyptian distribution, it appears that the
total numbers of the degrees for each planet, added together,
make 3601—viz. for Saturn 57, Jupiter 79, Mars 66,
Venus 82, and Mercury 76.
n
50 mommy’s 'rB'l‘RAninLos. [Book f.
The method of the Chaldteans contains a certain simpli
city of arrangement as to quantity, and preserves an order
of succession rather more conformable to the dominion of
the triplicities. It is, nevertheless, highly imperfect, as may
be easily discovered even without being pointed out: for in
the ﬁrst triplicity, (which the Chaldzeans also attribute to
the same signs ; viz. Aries, Leo, and Sagittarius,) Jupiter,
the lord of the triplicity, takes the ﬁrst degrees; Venus,
who rules the next triplicity, follows him; after her, in suc
cession, are Saturn and Mercury, the lords of the triplicity
of Gemini; and lastly Mars, lord of the remaining triplicity.
In the second triplicity, (also allotted to the same signs, viz‘.
Taurus, Virgo and Capricorn) Venus stands ﬁrst; next to
her, Saturn and Mercury; after them Mars, and Jupiter
last. In the other, two triplicities a similar order of suc—
cession is closely followed; and with respect to the third
triplicity, which is ascribed to two lords, viz. to Saturn and
Mercury, Saturn is placed ﬁrst in order by day and Mercury
by night. v
The quantity of degrees allotted to each planet is also
simply regulated in the Chaldaiic method ; it diminishes in
gradation from the quantity given to the planet ﬁrst in
order, so that each successive planet takes one degree less
than that which preceded it. Thus the ﬁrst planet takes
eight degrees, the second seven, the third six, the fourth
ﬁve, and the ﬁfth four. By this arrangement the degrees of
Saturn amount by day to 78, and by night to 66; the de
grees of Jupiter to 72, of Mars to 69, of Venus to 75, and
of Mercury by day to 66, and by night to 78—the whole '
amounting to 360.
Of these two distributions of the terms, that of the
Egyptians seems more to be relied on than the other;
since it has been handed down and recommended in the
writings of the [Egyptian authors, and also because the
degrees of the terms, in nativities rectiﬁed by them as ex
Chap. XXIV.] PTOLBMY’S TE'l‘RABlBLos. \ 51
amples, are universally in accordance with this distribution;
while, on the other hand, neither the order nor the number
of the Cbaldaic method'has ever been recorded or explained
by any writer—not even by the writers of that very nation :
the accuracy of that method is consequently doubtful, and
its irregularity as to the order of placing the planets is
widely open to censure.
There is, however, an antient writing which has fallen
into the author’s possession, and which gives a rational‘
and consistent account of the nature of the terms ;, of the
order in, which they are to be taken, and of the quantity
belonging to each. It will be found in the subsequent
chapter.
@589“: XXIV.
The Terms according to Ptolemy.
IN arranging the order in which the planets take their terms
in each sign, their exaltations, triplicities, and houses, are
taken into consideration; and whatever planet, whether
beneﬁc or maleﬁc, may possess two rights of dominion in one
and the same sign, such planet is universally placed ﬁrst in
order in that sign. In other cases, however, where it does
not happen that a maleﬁc posseSSes two rights of dominion _
in the sign, it is always placed last.
The lord of the exaltation is placed ﬁrst; then the lord
of the triplicity; and then the lord of the house; in regu
lar succession, according to the series of the signs: but it
must again be remembered that any planet, having two rights
of dominion in the same sign, takes precedence, as before
mentioned, of those having only one. In Cancer and
Leo, however, the maleﬁcs .occupy the ﬁrst degrees;las
those signs are the houses of the Moon and the Sun, which‘
take no terms; and the maleﬁcs being found to have
greater potency in those signs therefore take precedence in
52 nommv’s TETRABIBLOS. [Book IL
them. Mars, consequently, receives the ﬁrst degrees in
Cancer, and Saturn in Leo, by which arrangement a proper
order is preserved *.
The respectire quantities of degrees for the leveral
terms is thus determined: viz. when there is no planet
found to be lord by two rights in the same sign, or in the
two signs next following, each of the beneﬁcs, Jupiter and
Venus, takes seven degrees ; the maleﬁcs, Saturn and Mars,
take ﬁve degrees each; and Mercury, being of common in
ﬂuence, takes six degrees; thus completing the whole thirty
Since, however, there are some cases in which a planet has
always a double right—(for Venus obtains the sole govem~
ment of Taurus and Pisces, as the VMoon does not share in
the terms)—-it is to he observed that when such double right,
(whether it exist in the same sign or in' the signs next fol
lowing as far as may complete a quadrant,) may be pos
sessed by any planet, that planet receives in addition one
degree. The planets thus entitled were distinguished by
points in the antient writing above mentioned. And the
degree, added to the quantity of the planet which exercises
\ a double right, is subtracted from those of single right;
most generally from Saturn and Jupiter, in consequence of
their slower motion. _
Tl‘leSe terms are detailed in the following table :—
* The cause of This disposition is that Cancer, the house of the
Moon, partake: of moisture, and counteracts Mars’s dryness; while
Leo, the Sun’s house, is hot, and counteracts Saturn‘s cold—Vida:
Chap. iv, and conclusion of Chap. vii of this Book.
It may further be observed, that Jupiter’s right, by triplicity, to the
ﬁrst degrees in Leo, is of course surrendered to Saturn, on the prin—
cipte that the malcﬁcs have greater potency in the houses of the
luminaries. ' -
Chap. XXV.] PTOLEMY’s TETRABIBLOS. ' 53
\
Cabal!” '
66
Leo
“P
L 6 6
Gemini
er.77
Taurus
8 8
Aries
Jupiter
l er.
Venus up. 6 I up 7 1
Mercury " . F l 5 18
Mars
Saturn
Libra. Scorpio lSaglttm-ins Capricorn Aquarius Pisces_
Saturn 6 6 Mars 6 6 Jup. 8 8 Van. 6 6 Sat. 6 G Van. 8 B
Ven. e 14-Mer. 6 12Me1. 6 12 Jup. 6 14
Ven. S
,_ 14
Ven‘“ " “11111. 7 l8
Mercury 3 19 Jup- 7 .
Jupiter 5 Haven 8 QlMer. 5 19.1111). 7 191V6n. 20 Mar. 6 20
m___
Jupiter 5 2 Sat. ' 6 25
Mercury 8 2 Mer. at 7'5“ 6 25 MW 6 zsdupl 512 m 5 25
Mars 6 sols“. a eolmmla so 24;“ 5 SOMars a solsm. g :10
(3W XXV.
The Places and Degrwt of 91791?! Planet
THE signs have been subdivided by some persons into parts
still more minute, which have been named places and degrees
of dominion. Thus the twelfth part of a sign, or two de
grees and}; half, has been called a place, and the dominion
of it given to the signs next succeeding. Other persons
again, Pursuing virious modes of arrangement, attribute to
each planet certain degrees, as being aboriginally connected
with it, in a manner somewhat similar to the Chaldéjc ar
rangement’of the terms. But all these imaginary attributes
cannot be herein detailed, for they receive no conﬁrmation
from nature, are not capable of being rationally demonstrat
ed, and are, in fact, merely the offspring of scientiﬁc vanity.
54 Proumv’s TETRABIBLOS. [Book I.
\
The following observation, however, deserves attention,
and must not be omitted.
The beginnings of the signs, and likewise those of the
terms, are to be taken from the equinoctial and tropical points.
This rule is not only clearly stated by writers on the subject,
but is also especially evident by the demonstration constantly
afforded, that their natures, inﬂuences, and familiarities, have
no other origin than from the tropics and equinoxes, as has
been already plainly shewn *. And, if other beginnings
were allowed, it would either be necessary to exclude the
natures of the signs from the theory of prognostication, or
impossible to avoid error in then retaining and making use
of them; as the regularity of their spaces and distances,
upon which their inﬂuence depends, would then be invaded
and broken in upon.
¢h8pt8t XXVI.
Faces, Chariots, and other similar Attributesqf the Planets.
THE familiarities existing between the planets and the signs
are such as have been already particularized.
There are also, however, further peculiarities ascribed to
the planets. Each is said to be in its proper face, when the
aspect it holds to the Sun, or Moon, is similar to that which
its own house bears to their houses : for example, Venus is
in her proper face when making a sextile aspect to either lu
minary, provided she be occidental to the Sun, but oriental
to the Moon, agreeably to the primary arrangement of her
houses 1-. -
Each planet is also said to be in its proper chariot, or
throne, or otherwise triumphantly situated, when it holds
' Vide Chapters xii and xiv of this Book.
1- Vide Chapter xx. It of course follows that Saturn, is in his pro-_
per face when he is ﬁve signs, or in quintile, after the Sun or before
the Moon; that Jupiter is so when in trine; Mars when in quartile;
Venus when in sextile; and Mercury when only one sign, (or, in
modern phrase, in semi-sextile,) after the Sun or before the Moon.
Chap_xxv1_] mommy’s TE'I‘RA'BIBLOS. ' 55
familiarity with the place which it actually occupies by two,
or more, of the prescribed modes of connection . for when
i it is so circumstanced, its inﬂuence and energy are specially
augmented by the familiarity it thus holds with the sign
which encompasses it, and which is similar in inﬂuence and
co-operates with it.
Lastly, each planet, (although it may possess no familia
rity with the sign encompassing it) is said to rejoice, when
any connection subsists between itself and other stars of the
same condition; as, notwithstanding the distance between
them, a certain sympathy and communication of inﬂuence
is derived from their mutual resemblance. In the same
manner, again, when a planet occupies a place adverse and
dissimilar in condition to itself, much of its inﬂuence is
dissipated and lost; in consequence of the interposition and,
admixture of the other different inﬂuence, arising out of the
dissimilar temperament of the sign by which it is encom
passed. v
(theater XXVII.
Application, Separation, and other Faculties.
IN all cases when the distances between planets or lumina
ries are but triﬂing *, the planet which precedes is said to
apply to that which follows; and that which follows to be
separating from that which precedes 1‘. The same rule ob
" This has been understood to mean, when the planets or lumina
ries are within each other’s orbs; 'Saturn’s orb being 10 degrees, Ju
piter’s 12, Mars’s 7 degrees 80 minutes, the Sun’s 17 degrees, Ve
nus’s B, Mercury’s 7 degrees 30 minutes, and the Moon’s 12 degrees
30 minutes.
1- Astrologers generally agree, that the inferior planets always apply
to the superior, but the superior never to the inferior, except when ‘
the inferior be retrograde. In the present instance it seems most
probable that the author means the planet which is more occidental,
by “ the planet which precedes.” He often uses “ precedent” as
equivalent to “occidental” in regard. to the daily revolution of the hea
vens: and thus a planet in the ﬁrst degree ofAries would precede, and
he more occidental than one in the sixth degree of Aries, to which
\atter it Would, by the regular planetary motion, be applying.
\
56 - P'roumv’s rn'rnsarneos; [Book I.
tains‘ both in respect to bodily conjunction and to any other
of the aspects before described; except that, in the applica
tion and separation of the bodily conjunction, it is also
essential to observe the actual latitudes of the bodies, in
order to receive and consider only such a transit as may be
made in the same parts of the zodiac *. But in the appli
catiOn and separation of aspects merely, the same attention
is not requisite, since all the rays are uniformly converged
into one focus, that is to say, into the angle of the earth 1',
and meet there alike from every quarter.
It appears, therefore, by the whole of what has been already
deliVered, that the effective inﬂuence of the stars must be
considered as arising not only from their own peculiar na
tures and properties, but also from the quality of the sur
‘rounding signs, and from conﬁguration with the Sun and
the angles; all which has been pointed out. The inﬂuence
of each planet, however, is strengthened chieﬂy when it may
be oriental, swift_and direct in its proper course and motion
—for it has then its greatest power: but, on the other hand,
it loses strength when occidental and slow in motion or re
trograde ; as it then acts with smaller effect 1. Its inﬂuence
' On this, \Vhallcy says that “ the less the difference of latitude
" of the planets in conjunction, the more powerful will be the in
“ tiuence: for if two planets in conjunction have each considerable
“ latitude of ditTercnt denomination, the inﬂuence of such conjunc
“ tion will be much lessened."
1- Tou'r'lri em ﬂ Imp" 'l'n; ynr. The precise meaning of the word sun-pow
is “ centre," rather than “ angle ;" but Ptolemy uses it throughout
this work, in speaking of the four angles of heaven, and I con
ceive he uses it here to signify an angle at, or on, the earth. The fol
lowing deﬁnition of an aspect, by Kepler, strengthens my opinion:
“ An aspect is an angle formed on the earth, by the luminous rays
" of two planets; etticacious in stimulating sublunary nature."
I Placidus (Cooper's translation) says that “the three superiors
“ are supposed to be stronger, if they are found to be matutiue, or
“ eastern, from the Sun ; the three interiors, vespertine, or western;
" for then they have a greater degree of light, in which consists
t‘ their virtual inﬂuence, and then they are called oriental; but occi
Quip. XXVIIJ rroumv’s TETRABIBLOS. 57
also receives accession or diminution, from its position with
regard to the horizon; as, if it be situated in the mid-hea
ven, or succedent to the mid-heaven, it is especially strong;
likewise, if it be on the actual horizon,-or succedent to the
horizon, it is also powerful ;—particularly if in the east'
ern quarter. Should it, however, be below the earth, and
conﬁgurated with the ascendant, either from the lower hea—
ven, or from any other part below the earth, its inﬂuence
then becomes more languid ; but if, when below the earth,
it holds no such conﬁguration, it is entirely deprived of eﬂi
cacy 1-.
s “ dental if otherwise. Every one known how largely, yet to no pur~
“ pose, authors have treated of the ‘orieutality ot' the planets.”
’ Moxon’s Mathematical Dictionary has the following words on the
same subject: “ Now the three superior planets are strongest, being
“ oriental and matutine; but the three inferior when they are 1
“' occidental and vespertine. The reason is, because the ﬁrst in the
“ ﬁrst case, but the last in the second, do then descend to the loWest
“ part of their orbit, are increased in light, and approaching nearer
“ the earth ; and so on the contrary, the interiors matutine, the
“ 'superiors Vespertinc are weakened." ~ '
1' In a note on the 6th Chapter of this Book, Whalley says that,
9 according to Ptolemy, such as are bctvmen the ascendant and mid‘
“ heaven obtaih the ﬁrst place of strength, and are said to boil! their:
“ oriental crientality: but, between the western horizon and the
“ lower heaven, in their occidental orientality, which is the second
“ place of strength 2 between the lower heaven and the ascendant,
“ in theirorlental occidentality, the ﬁrst degree of weakness; and
“ hetwaen the mid-heaven and western horizon, in their occiden
“ tal occidentality, the weakest place of ah." This is all very pretty
jargon, but certainly NOT “ according to Ptolemy," who distinctly
says, on the contrary, that if a planet “is on the .actual hon'zon, or
“ succedent to the horizon, it is also powerful, and particularly if
-“ in the eastern quarter." The last member of this sentence, as well
as the conclusion of this 9‘"! Chapter, sth that Ptolemy did nut
consider a situation between the mid-heaven and western horizm
to be “ the weakest place of all."
I
53 . Protemr’s TETRABIBLOS. [Book II.
BOOKTHE sscono.
QIbapter I.
General Division of the Subject.
' THE great and leading points, requiring to be‘attended to
as a necessary means of introduction to the consideration of
particular predictions, having been succinctly deﬁned, the
further parts of the subject, comprehending every thing
which may tend to facilitate prediction, and render it com
plete, shall now be duly proceeded in; and, at the same time,
care shall be taken to conﬁne thevwhole doctrine within the
limits of natural reason. g
The foreknowledge to .be acquired by means of Astro
nomy is to be regarded in two great and principal divisions.
The ﬁrst, which may be properly called General, or Univer~
sal, concerns entire nations, countries, or cities; and the
second, denominated Particular, or Genethliacal, relates. to
men individually. '
In considering these respective divisions, it seems proper
to give priority to that which has the more general applica
tion and inﬂuence: because, in the ﬁrst place, general events
are produced by causes greater and more compulsatory than
the causes of particular events; Secondly, because natures
of more extended potency niust invariably controul those
which are more limited in action; and, thirdly, because par
ticular events, or individual aﬁ'ections, are comprehended in
those of general influence“. It is therefore especially neces- V
l
J
"' Vide Chap. iii, Book I, pp. 13-14.
Chap. 1.] PToLnMY's T'B'rnA‘BrBLos. 59
sary, in desiring to investigate particular events, to treat
ﬁrst of those which are general. '
Again, general events are subdivided according to their ope
ration upon entire countries, and upon certain cities or dis
tricts: one subdivision being regarded as affecting entire
countries, and the other certain cities or districts only.
They are also separately considered according to the causes
by which they are produced ; war, pestilence, famine, earth
quakes, inundations, and other similar visitations being de
pendent on'such greater and more important causes, as arise
only after considerable, periods ; white slighter causes, arising
more frequently, have reference only to the revolution of the
seasons; their greater or less variation in cold and heat;
the severity or mildness of the weather; the occasional
abundance or scarcity of provisions; and other like occur
rences.
Hence the consideration of those events which concern
whole countries, and are dependent on the greater causes,
(since it has a more extended scope than the other, which
attaches only to certain cities, or districts, and is subject to
slighter causes) takes precedence. And, for its due investi
gation, two essential points are to be attended to : the ﬁrst
is, the appropriate familiarity of the vzodiacal signs and the
ﬁxed stars with the several regions which may be concerned ;
and the second comprises the indications occasionally arising
in those parts of the ' heavens where such familiarity is
found: for instance, the eclipses of the Sun and Moon, and
such transits as may be made by the planets, when matutine,
and in their respective stations. ' '
The nature of the sympathy between these things must'_
however be explained ﬁrst ; and a brief description will
therefore be given of the chief peculiarities observable in;
whole nations ; in regard to their manners and customs, as
well as to their bodily formation and temperament; consi
dered agreeably to their familiarity with those stars and signs
60 ' PTOLEMY’S TETRABIBLOS. H
whencc the natural cause of their peculiarities duly pro
ceeds.
they“: 1!.
Peculizm'ties obsm'uable throughout entire Climate.
.Trrn peculiarities of all nations are distinguished according
to entire paraiiels and entire angies, and by their situation
with regard to the Sun and the _
The climate which we inhabit is situated in one-of the
Northern Quadrante: but other nations, which lie under
more southern parallels, that is to say, in the space between
the cquinoctial line and the summer tropic, have the Sun
in their zenith, and are continually scorched by it. They
are consequently black in complexion, and have thick and
curled hair. They are, moreover, uglyvin person, of con
tracted stature, hot in disposition, and ﬁerce in manners, in
consequence of the incessant heats to which they are ex
posed; and they are called by the common name of Ethio
pians. But the human race does not alone aﬂ'ord evidence
of the violent heat in these regions; it is shown also by ali
other animals and by the state of the surrotmding atmo
sphere.
The natives of those countries which lie under the more
remote northern parallels, (that is to say, vunder theArctic
circle and bede it") have their zenith for distant from the
zodiac and the Sun’s heat. Their constitutions, therefore,
abound in cold, and are also highly imbued with moisture,
which is in itselfa most nutritive quality, and, in these lati
tudes, is not exhausted by heat: hence they are fair in com
plexion, with straight hair, of largehodies and full stature.
They are cold in disposition, and wild in manners,-ow‘ing to
the constant cold. The state of the surrounding atmo
’* “ Under the Bears)“ the Greek.
Chap. .11.] Protauv’s ra'rnamnws. 61
sphere and of animals and plants, corresponds with that of ,,
men ; who archer; designated by the general name offigfﬂ‘“
Scythians. . ‘
The nations situated between the summer tropic and the
arctio circle, having the meridian Sun neither in their zenith
noryet far remote from it,enjoy a well-temperated atmosphere.
This favourable temperature,however,still undergoesvariation,
and changes alternately from heat to cold; but the variation
is never vast nor violent. The people who enjoy this kindly
atmosphere are consequently of proportionate stature and
complexion, and of Egood natural disposition : they live not
in a state of dispersion, but dwell together in societies, and
are civilized in their habits. Among the nations compre
hended in this division, those verging towards the south
are more industrious and ingenious than the others, and
more adapted to the sciences: and these qualiﬁcations are
engendered in them by the vicinity of the zodiac to their
zenith, and by the familiarity thus subsisting between them
and the planets moving in the ZOdiac,‘w-hich familiarity gives
activity and an intellectual impulse to their minds. Again,
the natives of those countries which lie towards the east
excel in courage, acting boldly and openly under all cir
cumstances; for in all their characteristics they are princi
pally conformed to the Sun’s nature, which is oriental, diur
nal, masculine and dexter :—'(and it is plainly apparent that
the dexth parts of all animals are much stronger than others) :
——hence results the greater courage of the inhabitants of the;
East. And as the Moon, on her ﬁrst appearance after con~
junction, is always seen in the West, the western parts are
therefore lunar, and consequently feminine and sinister;
whence it follows that the inhabitants of the west are milder,
more eﬂ'emimate and reservad.
Thus, in all countries, certain respective peculiarities exist
in regard to manners, customs and laws ; and in each it is
found that some portion of the 'Iinbabitants diﬂ'ers partially
'62 PTOLEMY’S TE'I‘RABIBLOS. " Book II,
and individually from the usual habits and condition'of their
race. These variations arise similarly to the variations per
ceptible in the condition of the atmosphere ; as, in all
countries, the general state of whose atmosphere may be
either hot, or cold, or temperate, certain districts are found to
possess a particular temperature of their own, and to be
more or less hot, or cold, by being more or less elevated than
the general face of the country. So, likewise, certain
people become navigators owing to their proximity to the sea,
while others are equestrian, because their country is a
plain ; and others, again, become domesticated by the fertility [#th
of their soil.
And thus, in each particular climate, certain peculiar
qualities are to be found, arising from the natural familiarity
which it holds with the stars and the twelve signs. And
although these qualities do not pervade it, in such a manner
as to be necessarily exhibited by every individual native, yet
they are so far generally distributed as to be of much utility
in investigating particular events ; and it is highly important
to take at least a brief notice of them.
chapter III.
The Familiarity of the Regions ofthe Earth with the Triplici
. ties and the’Planets.
IT has been already stated that there are four triplicities
distinguishable in the zodiac. The ﬁrst, composed of Aries,
Leo, and Sagittarius, is the northwest triplicity ; and Ju
piter has chief dominion over it on behalf of its northern
proportion; but Mars also rules with him in reference to,
the west. The second, consisting of Taurus, Virgo, and
Capricorn, is the south-east; and in this triplicity Venus
bears chief rule, in consequence of the southern proportion ;
but'Saturn also governs with her in consideration-of the
east. The third, composed of Gemini, Libra, and Aquarius, .
is north-east; and Saturn is here the principal lord, in con
Chap. 11L] PTOLEMY’s TE'l‘ltABlBLOS. 63
'\ n) -
sequence of the eastern proportion; Jupiter, however, g0
verns with him in reference to the north. The fourth tri
plicity is constituted of Cancer, Scorpio, and Pisces, and is
south-west ; it owns Mars as its principal ruler, in consider
ation of its western proportion ; and, on behalf of the south,
it is also governed by Venus.
The four triplicities being thus established, the whole in-.
habited earth is accordingly divided into four parts, agree
ing with the number of the triplicities. It is divided latitudi
nally by the line of the Mediterranean Sea, from the Straits
of Hercules to the, Issican Gulph, continued onwards
through. the mountainous ridge extending towards the east ;
and by this latitudinal division its southern and northern
parts are deﬁned. Its longitudinal division is made by the
line of the Arabian Gulph, the JEgean Sia, Pontus, and the
lake Meeotis; and by this line are separ ted its eastern and
western parts.
0’? The four quadrants of the earth, thus agreeing in num
r with the four triplicities, one iS-situated in the‘north
west of the entire earth, and contains Celto-galatia; or, as
it is commonly called, Europe. Opposed to-this quadrant
lies that ofthe south-east, towards Eastern JEthiopia ; it is
called the southern part of Asia Magna. Another quadrant
of the entire earth is in the north-east, about Scythia, and is
called the northern part of Asia Magna. To this is opposed
the quadrant of the south-west, which lies about Western
Ethiopia, and is known by the general name of Libya.
Each of these quadrants contains certain' parts, which, in
comparison with its other parts, lie more contiguous to the
middle of the earth ; and these parts, in respect of the
quadrant to which they belong, have a situation opposite to
the rest of that quadrant, in the same manner as that quad
rant itself is situated in regard to the rest of the earth. For
instance, in the quadrant of Europe, which is situated on
the north-west of the whole earth, those parts of it which lie
64 PTOLEMY’S TETRABIBLOB. [Book II.
towards the middle of the earth, and near the angles of the
other quadrants, are manifestly situated in the south-east of
that quadrant. The like rule obtains in regard to the other
quadrants. And hence-it is evident that each quadrant is
in familiarity with 'two oppositely~placed triplicities, its
whole extent being adapted -to the one triplicity which
governs it as an entire quadrant; but its particular parts,
situated about the middle of the earth, and lying, as regards
the rest of the quadrant, in a direction contrary to that
assigned to the whole quadrant altogether, being adapted to
the other triplicity which rules the particular quadrant lying
opposite to it. The planets exercising dominion in both
these triplicities also hold familiarity with these particular
parts; but, with the other more remote parts of any quadrant,
only those planets hold familiarity, which rule in the single
triplicity to which the whole quadrant is allotted. With the
said particular parts about the middle of the earth, Mercury
also, as well as the other planets in dominion, bears fami
liarity, in consideration of his mediative condition and com
mon nature.
Under this arrangement, it follows that the north-western
parts of the ﬁrst quadrant, or that of Europe, are in fami
liarity with the north-west triplicity, composed of Aries,
Loo, and Sagittarius; and they are accordingly governed by}
the lords of that triplicity, Jupiter and Mars, Vespertine
These parts, as distinguished by their appropriation to entire
nations, are Britain, Galatia, Germany, Barsania*, Italy,
Apulia,'Sicily, Gaul, Tuscany, Celtica, and Spain. And,
since the triplicity itself and the planets connected with it in '
dominion are adapted to command, the natives of these
countries are consequently impatient of restraint, lovcrs of
freedom, warlike, industrious, imperious, cieanly, and high
minded. But, owing to the vespertine conﬁguration of
" or, Perhaps, Bastamia, apart of the autient European Sarmatia.
cm. 111.] r'routuv’s rz'runrnms. 65
Jupiter and Mars, as well as the masculine condition of the
anterior parts of the triplicity, and the feminine condition of
its letter parts*, the said nations regard women with scorn
and indiﬂ'erence‘l'. They are, however, still careful of the
community, brave and faithful, affectionate in their fa
milies, and perform good and kind actions. '
Among the countries before named, Britain, Galatia, Ger-_
many, and Barsania have a greater share of familiarity with
Aries and Mars; and their inhabitants are accordingly wilder,
bolder, and more ferocious. Italy, Apulia, Sicily, and Gaul
are in familiarity with Leo and the Sun; and the natives of
these countries are more imperious, yet kind and benevo~
lent, and careful of the commonwealth. Tuscany, Celtica,
and Spain, are connected ‘l'vith Sagittarius and Jupiter; and
their inhabitants are lovers of freedom, simplicity, and ele
gance.
The south-eastern parts of this quadrant, which are sit-u
ated towards the middle of the earth, viz. Thrace, Macedonia,
Illyria, Hellas, Achaia, and Crete, as well as the Cyclad
Isles and the shores of Asia Minor and of Cyprus, assume,
in addition, a connection with the south-east triplicity,
which is composed of Taurus, Virgo, and Capricorn, and
ruled by Venus and Saturn5 and, in consequence ofthe vicini
ty of these regions to the middle of the earth, Mercury like
r This should probably be understood to mean in a mundane point
of vieW, agreeably to Chap. 6 and 15, Book it For when Aries is on
the assailant, it is, ofcourse, oriental and masculine; and Sagitta
rius must consequently then he in the eighth house, occidental, and
therefore feminine.
+Ti-ie customs of nations have, in some degree, altered since
Ptoiomy made this severe charge against 'us and our brethren in the
north .1!!! west of Europe. The following passage also occur! in this
W01. "15 original 1611 h-rrpg 31 rag auvw'w; 'ruv upo'miwr sine-upturn
Ill (FINIYIIEQ', w pun awuav tum arm-Spy ‘n'ro rapifov'lrg. the run uh
unknown, 0'" ago; area-Xav'lr; Stanly"; m 191w, an; gum-ﬂan a"; \fmxu
avi'uug.
K
66 woman's TiTR'ABluLos. [Book II.
wi'se has a' proportionate dominion over them. Hence their.
inhabitants, being subjected to the rulers of both triplicities,
enjoy a favourable temperament of mind and of body. From.
Mars they imbibe their ﬁtness for command, their courage,
and impatience of restraint ; from 'Jupiter their love of free
dom, their self-rule, their skill in guiding public affairs, and
in legislation : through the inﬂuence of Venus they are also
lovers of the arts and sciences, as well as of music and
poetry, of public shews, and all the reﬁnements of life: and '
from Mercury they deduce their hospitality, their fondness
for society and communion, their love of equity and of
literature, and their power of eloquence. They are also in
the highest degree conversant with sacred mysteries, owing
to the vespertine ﬁguration of Veims. I g
It is further to be observed of these last~named countries,
that the inhabitants of the Cyclad Isles, and of the shores of
Asia Minor and of Cyprus, are more particularly under the
inﬂuence of Taurus and Venus, and are therefore voluptuous,
fond of elegance, and over-studious in their attention to the
body. The people of Hellas, Achaia, and Crete, have a
stronger familiarity with Virgo and Mercury, and are there
fore learned and scientiﬁc, preferring the cultivation of the
mind to the care of the body. The people of Macedonia,
Thrace, and Illyria, are chieﬂy inﬂuenced by Capricorn and
Saturn ; whence they are greedy of wealth, inferior in civi
lization, and have no ordinances of civil polity.
The second quadrant consists of the southern division of
Asia Magna. Such of its parts as are contained in India,
Arriana, Gedrosia, Parthia, Media, Persia, Babylonia, Me-z
sopotamia, and Assyria, are situated in the south-east of the
whole earth, and have due familiarity with the south-east
triplicity (composed of Taurus, Virgo, and Capricorn), and _
consequently with Venus, Mercury, and Saturn, in matuf
tine ﬁguration. The nature of the inhabitants of these coun-_
tries is obedient'to the dominion of these ruling inﬂuences ;
III.] PToLnM'Y’s TETRABIBLOS. 67
they worship Venus under the name 'ofy‘Iidisi; and they also
pay devotion to Saturn, invoking him v'by the name of
Mithranhelios. Many of them likewise foretelii‘future events;
and they consecrate to the gods some of their bodily mem
bers, to which superstition they are induced'by the nature of
the ﬁguration of the planets before mentioned’l". They are,
moreover, hot in constitution, amorous and lustful, fond of
acting, singing, and dancing, gaudy in their dresses and
ornaments ; owing to the inﬂuence of Venus. Saturn,
however, inclines them to simplicity of conduct; and, in
consequence of the matutine ﬁguration, they address their
Women publicly‘i‘. There are also many among them who _
beget children by their own mothersi. The matutinc ﬁgu
rations also inﬂuence their mode of worship, which is per
formed by prostration of the breast ; because the heart is the
nobler part of the body, and, in its vivifying faculties, acts
like the Sun. And, although the inﬂuence of Venus makes
the people, generally speaking, ﬁnical and eﬁ'eminate in their
personal adornment and apparel, yet the connection which
Saturn holds with them, by means of the east, still renders
them great in mind, eminent in council, courageous ' and
warlike. '
It is to be remarked, that Parthia, Media, and Persia, have
a more particular familiarity with Taurus and Venus; whence
it follo'Ws that the dwellers in those countries wear splendid
garments, and clothe the whole person entirely, except the
breast; they are also fond of elegance and reﬁnement. The
" The Greek is as follows: nm' We poptn BLIth era. yumihxa nrn'hﬂlaa':
Irate 300:. awn e axupa'lwpl; 'rm HEW-Alwa nglpwr <punt n'nlfpn'lmoq if”.
Follies, similar in their kind to these, are still practiscd‘by the Faquirs
of Hindostan, and by other religious sects in Asia.
1' Oavepu; unb‘fnvm 'rac 'Irfu,‘ 'ra; yarntlng vuuwusc.
IThe author gives a singular reason for this incest: Fraser 85 n; ‘
(amusing) Igor. 1-9; agnrn- 8“: 'nm In N ultucu nun" at new p.10an
TIIIO'KMUU‘c ‘
68 PToLEMY's TBTRABIBLOG. [Book 11.
countries aboutsBabylon, Mesopotamia, and Assyria, are
connected with Virgo and Mercury ; their inhabitants are
consequently studious of the sciences, and, among other
attainments, excel in making observations on the ﬁve pla
nets. India, Arriana, and Gedrosia, are connected with
Capricorn and Saturn; the natives of these regions are,
therefore, ill-formed in person, of dirty habits, and barbarous
manners.
The remaining parts of this second quadrant, viz. Idu
mma, Coelesyria,Judea, Phoenicia, Chaldaaa, Orchynia, and
Arabia Felix, occupy a situation in the vicinity of the mid
dle of the earth, and in the north-west of the quadrant to
which they actually belong: hence they are in familiarity
with the north-west triplicity (which consists of Aries, Leo,
and Sagittarius), and they have for their rulers, Jupiter and
Mars, together with Mercury. By means of the ﬁguration
of these planets, the natives of the said countries are skilful
in trade and all mercantile aﬂ'airs, heedless of danger, yet
treacherous, servile, and thoroughly ﬁckle.
' The inhabitants of Coelesyria, ldumsea, and Judasa, are
principally inﬂuenced by Aries and Mars, and are generally
audacious, atheistical*, and treacherous. The Phoenicians,
Chaldaeans, and Orchynians, have familiarity with Leo and
the Sun, and are therefore more simple and humane in
disposition; they are also studious of astrology, and pay
greater reverence than all other nations to the Sun. The
people of Arabia Felix are connected with Sagittarius and
Jupiter : the country is fertile, and abundantly productive of
spices; and its inhabitants are well-proportioned in person,
free in all their habits of life, and liberal in all their contracts
and dealings. ‘ o
" This epithet is remarkable, not only as being, in the opinion of a
Gentile, merited by the Java, among other nations, but also at a
period scarcely exceeding a century after their must heinous crime
had been committed, expressly under the cloak of religion.
Clwp. 11.1.] Piouwr’s Tsunamis, 69
The third qua'ant occupies the northern division of Asia
Mag-ha. Those several parts of it which lie to the north
east of the whole earth, and comprise Hyrcania, Armenia,
Mantiana, Bactriana, Casperia, Serica, Saurotnatica, Oxiana,
and Sogdiana, are in familiarity with the north-east tripli
city, composed of Gemini, Libra, and Aquarius, and have
for their mlers Saturn and Jupiter, in matutine positions;
hence the inhabitants worship Jupiter and the Sun*. They
are abundantly rich in all things: they possess much gold,
and are dainty and luxurious in their diet. They are also
learned in theology, skilled in magic, just in all their deal
ings, free and noble-minded, holding dishonesty and wicked—
ness in abhorrence, strongly imbued with the softer aﬂ'ec
tions of nature; and, in a warthy cause, they will even
readin embrace death to preserve their friends. They are,
furthermore, chaste in marriage, elegant and splendid in
their dress, charitable and beneﬁcent, and of enlightened in
tellect. All these qualities are principally produced by the
matutine positions of Saturn and Jupiter, who inﬂuence the
region. .
Among these nations, however, Hyrcania, Armenia, and
Mantiana, have a greater familiarity with ~Gemini and Mer
cury; and the inhabitants are, consequently more acute in
apprehension, but less tenacious of their probity. The
countries about Bactriana, Casperia, and .Serica, are con
nected with Libra and Venus ; and the natives are endowed
with much wealth and many luxuries, and take delight in
poetry and songs. The nations about Sauromatica, Oxiana,
and Sogdiana, are inﬂuenced by Aquarius and Saturn; and
are therefore less polished in manners, and more austere and
uncouth. '
The other parts of this quadrant, lying near the middle
of the entire earth, consist of Bithynia, Phrygia, Colchis,
" Other copies say “ Saturn.”
70 . ProLEles rrn'rRABIBLos. l - {Book II.
Laxica, Syria, Commagene,- Cappadoﬁi, ,Lydia, Ly'cia,
, Cilicia, and' Pamphéylia. :.These, being situated in the south
west ,of their quadrant, 'have' familiarity accordingly with
the, south-west triplicity, composed .of Cancer, Scorpio,
andPisces, and are ruled by‘Mars and Venus, together With
MerCury. In these countries“ Venus is principally worship
.ped ; she is invoked asthe Mother of'the Gods, and by
vari0us local and indigenous appellations; Mars‘likewise
' receives adoration here, 'under the name of Adonis, as well
as by other titlesi‘; and some of the religious services to
these deities are performed -by loud lamentations. The
people are servile in mind, diligent in labour, yet fraudulent,
kna-vish, and thievish: theyv enter into foreign armies for
the sake of hire, and make prisoners and slaves of their
own countrymenzl besides which, they are continually subject
to intestine broils. These traits arise from the matutine
,ﬁgurations of Mars and Venus.—It is further to be observed,
that, from the circumstance of Mars receiving his exaltation
in Capricorn (one of the signs of the triplicity. ruled by
Venus), and Venus hers in Pisces, (a sign belonging to the
triplicity of Mars), it thence follbws that the Women have
strong attachments and kindly affections to their .husbands,
are vigilant and careful in domestic affairs; and highly in
dustrious :7 they also act as servants, and labour for the men,
with all due obedience, in every thing. ,7
Bithynia, .Phrygia, and Colchis, must however be ex
cepted from sharing in'this general propriety of the female
character; for, as these nations are chieﬂy connected with
Cancer and the Moon, their male population is, generally
“ Itis usually understood that the male deity, coupled by thePhry
gians with Cybele, “ the mother of the Gods,” was called by them
Atysiimd that Adonis was the name used by the Phoenicians in
addressing the associate of Venus. It has been said that these divi
nities were identical with the Isis and Osiris of the Egyptians.
:
Ckapl II'I.] ‘ memes *rliirnmmtos'. A ’71"
speaking, slavish in its habits,"timid and superstitious,"
while the greater part 'of’ the women, owing to the mattr- '
tine and masculine position of‘the Moon, are of mas-’
culine manners, ambitious of command, and warlike. ‘
These-females shun the addresses of men, as the Amazons '
did of old, and delight in the use of arms, and in manly
occupations: they also amputate the right breasts of their
female children for the sake of adapting them to military'
service, and in order that,"when in combat and exposing
that part of their body, they may appear to be of the male
sexé—Again, Syria, Commagene, and Cappadocia, are prin->
cipally inﬂuenced by Scorpio and Mars; and their inhabi-i
tants are accordingly bold, wicked, treacherous, and labo
rious. 'Lydia, Cilicia, and Pamphylia, have a greater fami
liarity with Pisces and Jupiter ; whence their inhabitants are
wealthy, of mercantile habits, living in freedom and in
community,'faithful to their'engagements, and honest in
their dealings. ' ' i
The remaining quadrant is the vast tract known by the ge- .
neral name of Libya. Its several parts, distinguished by the
particular names of Numidia, Carthage, Africa’l", Phazania,
Nasamonitis, Garamantica, Mauritania, Getulia, and Meta
gonitis, are situated in the south-west of the entire earth,
and have due familiarity with the south-west triplicity,
composed of Cancer, Scorpio, and Pisces; their rulers
therefore are'Mars and Venus, in'vespertine position. From
\
" The name of Africa was, in Ptolemy’s time, limited to those
parts of the coast on the Mediterranean which contained the antient
Utiea, and in which Tunis now stands- Josephus says the name is
derived from Afer, (one of the posterity of Abraham by Cethurah)
who is stated to have led an army into Libya, and to have established
himself in the country. This Afer is, of course, the same with Epher,
mentioned in the fourth verse of the 25th chapter of Genesis, as
a son of Midian, one of the sons of Abraham by his concubine
Keillrah.
72 "new, rxrnaarnms. [Book II.
this ﬁguration of the planets it results that the dwellers in
these regions are doubly governed by a man and a woman,
who are both children of the same mother ; the man rules
the males, and the woman the females. They are extremely
hot in constitution, and desirous of women; their marriages
are usually made by violence, and in many.districts the
local princes ﬁrst enjoy the brides of their subjects: in some
places, however, the women are common to all. .The
inﬂuence of Venus causes the whole People to delight in
personal ornaments, and in being arrayed in female attire :
nevertheless, that of Mars renders them courageous, crafty,
addicted to magic, and fearless of dangers.
Again, however, of the above-named countries, Nu'
midia, Carthage, and Africa, are more particularly in fami—
liarity with Cancer and the Moon: their inhabitants, conse
quently, live in community, attend to mercantile pursuits,
and enjoy abundantly all the blessings of nature. The
natives of Metagonitis, Mauritania, and Getulia, are in
ﬂuenced by Scorpio and Mars, and are consequently fero
cious and pugnacious in the highest degree; eaters of
human ﬂesh, utterly indifferent to danger, and so regardless
and prodigal of blood, as to slay each other without hesita
tion on the slightest cause. The people in Phazania, Na
samonitis, and Garamantica, are connected with Pisces and
Jupiter, and are accordingly frank and simple in manners,
fond of employment, well disposed, fond of the decencies
of life, and, for the most part, free and unrestrained in their
actions :‘they worship Jupiter by the name of Ammon.
The other parts of this quadrant, which lie near the mid
dle of the entire earth, are Cyrenaica, Marmarica, Egypt,
Thebais, Oasis, Troglodytica, Arabia, Azania, and Middle
Ethiopia. These countries, being situated in the north
east cf their quadrant, have due familiarity with the north
east triplicity, (consisting of Gemini, Libra, and Aquarius),
and are governed by Saturn and Jupiter, and also by Mer
cury. Their inhabitants, therefore, participate in the in
Chap. 111.] ProLsMY’s 'rn'rmnrnms. 73
ﬂuence of all theﬁve planets in vespertine ﬁguration, and
consequently cherish due love and reverence for the gods,
and dedicate themselves to their service. They are addicted
to sepulchral ceremonies ; and, owing to the said vespertine
position, they bury their dead in the earth“, and remove
them from the public eye. .They use various laws and
customs, and worship‘divers gods. In a state of subjection,
they are submissive, cowardly, abject, and most patient;
but when they command, they are brave, generous, and
high-minded. Polygamy‘is frequent among them, and
practised by the women as well as the men : they are most
licentious in sexual intercourse, and allow incestuous com
merce between brothers and sisters. Both men and women
are extraordinarily proliﬁc, and correspond in this respect
with the fecundity of their soil. Many of the men are,
however, eﬁ'eminate and debased in mind ; in consequence
of the ﬁguration of the maleﬁcs, together with the vespertine
position of Venus; and some of them‘ mutilate their per
sons'l'. - I l'
Among these last named countries, Cyren'aica, Marmarica,
and particularly Lower Egypt, are chieﬂy inﬂuenced by
Gemini and Mercury: the natives are'therefore highly in
" It does not appear why this practice should have'been remarked
as a national peculiarity, unless in distinction from the customfcf burn
ing the dead among the Greeks and Romans. Interment is recorded
as having been usual among the Jews, and it is known to have been
common among manyantient barbarous nations. I i '
A conjecture may perhaps be allowed, that the author, when he
wrote this passage, had in his mind the magniﬁcent subterranean
palaces, constructed for the dead, in parts of the region in ques
tion; some of which have been recently made known to the modern i
world, by the sagacity and enterprize of the celebrated Belzoni.
‘ 1' “rm; 3‘: nu lainpgovva-I 101v ysvm'lnuw [suave—Th6“ contempt" belie
expressed by Ia'laspgewﬂ has been taken by all translators (except
Whalley) to signify “ mutilation.” ' '
L
74 PTQLEMY’: TETRABIBLQS. .[Book' II. I
Wllﬁcillill and invisible, and gifted with capacity for every
undertaking; shove all, for the attainment of wisdom, and
an insight into divine mysteries. They are also magicians,
{It-rimming secret rites and ceremonies, and main every
respect calculated for the prosecution of all scientiﬁc inquiry‘",
The inhabitants of ThebaiS, Oasis, and nglodytica', are
991111119in with Libra and Venus; they are of warmer con,
irritationsnd more hasty disposition, and enjoy life in all
‘itsplenimde and abundarice.. The natives of Arabia, Aza
fuia, and Middle Ethiopia; have familiarity with Aquarius
and Saturn; they nontcmiemly feed on ﬂesh and ﬁsh. indis
eriminately, 'andlivs in. 3-ﬁiM:QE-'Cllﬁmii0ﬂ like wild
.lmsts; they-never unite in SOCiﬁLbelli lead. a-wandering
'aud savage-life- ‘ a .
.The farniliarit-iee exercised by the Planets, and by the
Signs efthe Zodiae. together with the manners, customs,
and qualities, particular as. well as general,,whieh they
produee,have now been. concisely described; but in order
to facilitate the knowledge and use of them, the subjoined
tsbleis inserted, to show, at one view, what countries are
' in mimetiqu with each-sign, respectively, according to the
mode abovedetailed. -
' ' Historyiwarrants the high encomium here given to the natives
qu was msntﬂearﬁarptwas the, acknowledged mother of the
arts and set-races and, at one time the great den“ of all the towing
[qt the world: her school of astronomy (a science which our author
W W surprised. $0, l"th placed it! the ﬁrst rank), founded at Alex
andria by Ptol. Philadelphus, maintained its superior reputation for a
,QIQ‘IWQ- Willi.- Cyrenaieq gave birth to many illustrious philmro
pliers, and, among; than» to Eratosthenes, who is said to have invented
the armillarr sphere-L This, srsat man measured the obliquity of the
“eeiiptic, and, though he erroneously reckoned it at ins 30; degrees.
‘ it should bar/recollect“ thathq list 200 years, before the (llwittim
arra- He also measured. a degree of the meridian. and. determined
the extent of thesartll, bx meanssirsilar to those Messed- lug the
modems.
['III
'dvuo 9i
'SOUQI
[VI-LII.
QAWIIQJ.‘
TABLE
showing
all
the
COUNTRIES
belonging
to
each
SIGN
respectively.
\
Signs.
I
Aries.
Taurus.
7|
Gemini.
Cancer.
I
Leo.
I
Virgo.
Triplicate.
I
North
West.
South
East.
North
East.
South
West.
I
North
West.
South
East.Q“%l;:$rg-
meNorth
West.
South
East.
North
East.
South
West.
North
West.
South
East.
-
Britain
Parthia
H
yrcania
N
umidia
Italy
Mesopotamia
cannula“
"(3er
Galatia
Media
Armenia
Carthage
Apu'iia_
Babylonia
fmm‘h
e
mil,
8
Germany
Persia
Mantiana
Africa
Sicily
Assyrin,
of
e
ear
"
Barsania
'Gaul
Qu‘g;':::,gj
the
South
East. 7
North
West.
South
West.
North
East.
South
East-
i
North
\Vest.
Countries
near
Czelesyria
Cyclades
Cyren'aica
Bithynia
thuicia
Hollas
the
middle
qftlte
Idumaea
'T
Cyprus
Marmarica
Phrygia
Chaldaaa
Anhaia
earth;
J
udaza
A
sia
Minor
Lower-{Egypt-
Colohisv
Orchynia
Crete
Signs.
I
‘
Libra.
Scorpio.
I
Sagittarius.
I
Capricorn.
I
Aquarius.
I
Pisces.
'l':'iplicity.
4
I
North
East.
South
\Vest.
North
“rest.
South
North
East.
|
South.
West.
W‘aﬁrzlrg
theNorth
East.
South
‘Vest.
NorthWost.
South
East.
North-East.
I
Sclltb'VVest.
Countries
remote
Bactriana
Mctagonitis
TI‘uscany
India.
Saummalioa
_lezaénia
fromtke
middle
Casperia
Mauritania
Celtica
Arriana
Oxiana
Nasamonitis
oft/w
cart/r.
Serica
Gotulia
Spain
Gedrosia
Sogdiana,
Garamantica
qugszrg$
"w
E
South
West.
North
East.
South
East.
North
\Vest.
South
\Vest..
I
North
East.
Countriesrnear
'l‘heb'ais
Syria
'l‘hrace
Arabia
Lydia
the
middle
qftlre
'Oasis
Commagene
>Arabia
Felix
Macedonia
Azania
Cilicia.
earth.
Troglodytica
Cappadocia
Illyria
Middle
Ethiopia
Pamphylia
76 ' PTOLEMY’S TETRABIBLOS. [Book II.
ﬂbnptrr IV.
The Familiarity of the Regions of the Earth with theﬁxed
Stars.
IN addition to the rules which have ‘been already given, re
specting the familiarity of the regions of the earth with the
signs and planets, it must be observed, that all ﬁxed stars
which may be posited on any line, drawn from one zodiacal
pole to the other, through such parts of the zodiac as may
be connected with any particular country, are also in fami
liarity with that particular country. '
And, with regard to metropolitan cities, it is necessary to
state, that those points or degrees of the zodiac, over which
the Sun and Moon were in transit, at the time‘when the
construction of any such city was ﬁrst undertaken and com
menced, are to be considered as sympathizing with that
city in an especial manner; and that, among the angles, '
the ascendant is principally in accordance with it. In cer-
tain cases, however, where the date of foundation of a me
tropolis cannot be ascertained, the mid-heaven in the nati-'
vity of the reigning king, or other actual chief magistrate,
is to be substituted, and considered as that part of the zodiac
with which it chieﬂy sympathizes*.
érbaptte V.
Mode ofparticular Prediction in Eclipses.
AFTER having gone through the necessary preliminary to
pics, it_ is now proper to speak of the manner in which
predictions are to be formed and considered; beginning
" Whalley remarks on this passage, that the gradual progress of
the ﬁxed stars “ from one sign to another, is in an especial manner
“ to be regarded in considering the mutations. manners, customs,
“ laws, government, and fortune of a kingdom.”
Chap. VI.] ProLEMY’s 'rs'ranmnnos. 77
with those which relate to general events, aﬁ'ecting either
certain cities, or districts, or entire countries.
The strongest and principal cause of all these events exists
in the ecliptical conjunctions of the Sun and Moon, and in
the several transits made by the planets during those con
junctions.
.One part of the observations, required in forming predic
tion in cases of this nature, relates to the locality of the event,
and points out the cities or countries liable to be influenced
by particular eclipses,,or by occasional continued stations of
certain planets, which at times remain for a certain period in
one situation. These planets are Saturn, Jupiter, and Mars ;
‘ and they furnish portentous indications, when they are sta
tionary. 7
Another branch relates to time, and gives pre-information
of the period at which the event will occur, and how long:
it will continue to operate. .
The third branch is generic; and points out the classes,
or kinds, which the event will affect.
The last part is speciﬁc; and foreshows the actual quality
and character of the coming event.
@25th VI.
The Regions or Countries to be considered as liable to be
comprehended in the Event.
THE ﬁrst of the 'several branches of consideratioh just
enumerated relates to locality, and is to be exercised in the
following manner :—
In all eclipses of .the Sun and Moon, and especially in
such as are fully visible, the place in the zodiac, where the
eclipse happens, is to be noted; and it must be seen what
countries are in familiarity with that place, according to the
rules laid down regarding the quadrants and the triplicities ;
and in like manner it must be observed what cities are under
78 noan rmmtmncs. [Book II.
the inﬂuence of the sign in which the eclipse happens;
either by means of the ascen‘dant, and the situations of the
luminaries at the time of their foundation, or by means of
the mid-heaven of their kings or governors, actually ruling
at the time of the eclipse; although such time may be sub
sequent to the building of the said cities. Whatever c‘o'tr'rre
tries or cities shall be thus found in familiarity with the
ecliptical‘ place, will all he comprehended in the event;
, which will, however, principally attach to all those parts
which may be connected with the identical sign of the
eclipse‘", and in which it was visible while above the earth—r.
dihapm VII.
The Time and Period of the Event. ,
THE second point requiring attention relates to time, and
indicates the date when the event will take place, and the
period during which its eﬂ'ect will continue: these are to be
ascertained in the following manner.
It must however be premised, that as an eclipse, occur
ring at any particular season, cannot happen -in. all climates
at the same temporal or solar hourI, so neither will the
magnitude of the obscuration, nor the time of its conti
nuance, be equal in all parts of the world. First, therefore,
" As shown in the Table at page 75.
1? It does not appear that the text here warrants the conclusion
which Whalie-y has drawn from it, viz. “ that wherever eclipses are
“ not visible, they have no inﬂuence, and therefore subterranean
“ eclipses cannot have any.” Ptolemy declares, that all countries in
familiarity with the eclipﬁcal place will be comprehended in the
event; and, with regard to the visibility or invisibility of the eclipse,
he says namely that in efects will be prhcipzlly felt in such of the
said countries as might have obtained avinw of the eclipse.
1 Temporal or solar hours are duodocimal parts of the Sun’s diur
nal or nocturnal arc, and are numbered by day from sun-rise to sun
set; By night, from sun-set to sun-rise.
Chap. VIL] PToLnMY’s TETRABIBLOS. 79
(as is done in a nativity) the angles are to be arranged, in
every country connected with the eclipse, according to the
hour at which the eclipse takes place and the elevation- of
the pole in that country. The time, during which the ob
scuration of the eclipse may continue in each country, is
then to be noted in equatorial hours*. ‘And, after these
particulars have been carefully observed, it is to be under- '
stood that the effect will endure as many years as the ob
scuration lasted hours, provided the eclipse was solar; but
if lunar, a like number of months is to be reckoned instead
of years. - , ‘
The commencement of the effect, and the period of its
general intensity, or strength, are to be inferred from the
situation of the place of the eclipse with respect to the
angles. For, if the ecliptical place be near the eastern ho~
rizon, the effect will begin to'be manifested in the course of
the ﬁrst» ﬂoor months after the date of the eclipse; and its
general height, or intensity, will take: place in, or about, the
ﬁrst third part of the whole. extent of its duration. If the
ecliptical plaCe happen to be in or near the mid-heaven, the
effect will begin to appear in the Second four months, and
its general intensity will occur about the second thiripart ;
and, if. the. place should fall near the. western horizon, the
cheat will begin in the. third four months, and take its ge
neral intensity in the last third part of its whole durationt.
" Equatorial hours are the twenty-four hours of the earth's revo
lution on its axis. Each of them is equal in duration to the passage
of 15 degrees of the Equator; and they are numbered from noon to
noon. A particular explanation of the astronomical use, both of
temporal and equatorial hours, is to be found in the 9th Chapter of
they second Book of the Ahnagest; an extract from which is given in
the Appendix. '
’r The three periods of four months each, stated in this paragraph,
are applicable to solar eclipses only; for lunar eclipses, these periods
may be reckoned at ten days each; that number of days bearing the
same proportion to a month, as four mouths-tea year. On this point,
80 P'roLEMY’s TurnaanLos. [.Book IL
Partial intensities, or relaxations of the effect, are, how- v
ever, to be inferred from any combinations which may hap
pen during the intermediate period‘s, either in the actual
places where the primary cause was presented, or in other
places conﬁgurated therewith. They are also to be conjec-'
tured by the various courses, or transits, of such planets as
co-operate in producing the eﬂ‘ect, by being conﬁgurated
with the sign in which the primary cause was situated; and,
with this view, the matutine, vespertine, or stationary posi
tion, or midnight culmination of those planets must be ob
served; for the eﬂ'ect will be strengthened and augmented
by their matutine or stationary position; but weakened and
diminished by their being vespertine, or situated under the
sunbeams, or by their midnight culmination.
ebapm VIII.
The Genus, Class, or Kind, liable to be qﬂ‘ected.
Tun third division of these observations relates to the mode
of distinguishing the genus, or species, of animals or things
about to sustain the expected effect. This distinction is
made by means of the conformation and peculiar properties
of those signs in which the place of the eclipse, and the
places of such ﬁXed stars and planets, as are in dominion ac
cording to the actual sign of the eclipse, and that of the
angle before it, may be found. And a planet, or ﬁxed star,
is to be considered as holding dominion when circumstanced
'as follows.
Whalley, with his usual inaccuracy, has asserted, that “ in eclipses
,“ of the Moon, two days, or thereahouts, are equal to the fourmonths”
here reckoned in eclipses of the Sun. He adds, however, what per
haps may be true, that “ lunar eclipses are by no means so powerful
“ as those of the Sun, although more so than any other lunation.”
* That is to say, from any combinations of the Sun and Moon which
may take place after the date of the eclipse, but before the close of
its effect. '
-
Chap. VIII.] PToLBMY’s TETRABIBLOS. 8‘
If there be found one planet having more numerous claims
than any other to the place of the eclipse, as well as to that
of the angle, being also in the immediate vicinity of those
places, and visibly applying to, or receding from them, and
having likewise more rights over other places connected
with them by conﬁguration; the said planet being, at the
same time, lord by house, triplicity, exaltation, and terms;
in such a case, only that single planet is entitled to domi
nion. But, if the lord of the eclipse and the lord of the
angle be not identical, then those two planets which have
most connections with each place are to be noted; and, of
these two, the lord of the eclipse is to be preferred to the
chief dominion, “ although the other is to be considered as
“ bearing rule conjointly*.” And if more than two should
be found, having equal pretensions to each place, that par
ticular one among them which may be, nearest to an angle,
or most concerned with the places in question, by the nature
of its condition, is to be selected for dominion'l'.
But, among the ﬁxed stars, the chief bright one, (which,
during the time of the eclipse, may hold connection, in any
of the nine modes of apparent conﬁguration detailed in the
First Syntaxisx with the angles then actually in passage), is
to be admitted to dominion ; as also that one which, at the
ecliptical hour, may be'in an eminent situation, either having
risen, or having culminated with the angle following the
place of the eclipse". '
' The edition of Allatius does not contain the words here marked
by inverted commas; but they are found in other copies of the text,
and seem necessary to complete the sense of the passage.
1 “ When planets, in election for Lords of the eclipse, are found
“ of equal strength and dignity, those which are direct are to be pre
“ ferred before those which are retrograde; and the oriental before
“ the occidental.”—Whalle_1/’s “ Amwtatiom.”
I That is to say, 'in the Almagest, Book 8, Chap. 4; which chapter
is given, entire, in the Appendix. ’
ll “ In electing ﬁxed stars, Cardan directs to observe the angle
M
82 moment‘s '“rn'rttanrems. [Book II.
Having considered, according to the foregoing rules, what
stars co-operate in regulating the coming event, the con
formation and ﬁgure of the signs, in which the eclipse takes
place and the said ruling stars may be posited, are also to be
observed; and, from the properties and characteristics of
those signs, the genus or species, to be comprehended in the
event, is chieﬂy to be inferred. .
For instance, should the zodiacal constellations, and those
of the ruling ﬁxed stars out of the zodiac, be of human
shape, the effect will fall upon the human race. If the
signs be not of human shape, but yet terrestrial, or quadru
pedal, the event would be indicated to happen to animals of
similar form: the signs shaped like reptiles signify that
_ serpents and creatures of that description will be affected;
those bearing the ﬁgure of ferocious beasts denote that the
eVent will affect savage and destructive animals; and those
ﬁgured like tame beasts show that it will operate on animals
serviceable to mankind, and of domestic character; as inti
mated by the shape and ﬁgure of the signs, whether resem
bling horses, oxen, sheep, or any other useful animals.—In
addition to this, the terrestrial signs situated in the north,
about the Arctic circle, indicate sudden earthquakes; and
those in the south, sudden deluges of 'rain. And, should
the ruling places be situated in signs shaped like winged
animals, as in that of Aquila, or in others of similar form,
the event will take effect on birds; and will chieﬂy attach
to those which aﬁ'ord food to man. If the said places should
be in signs formed like creatures which swim, and in marine
signs, such as Delphinus, the effect. will be felt by marine
(6
‘6
U
I!
u
'“
which the eclipse follows, and that which it precedes: as, if the
eclipse be between the seventh house” (or occidental angle) “ and I
the mid-heaven, the stars Which are in the seventh shall be preferred; "
and next, those inthe mid-heaven; but, if between the mid~heaven
and the ascendant, those in the mid-heaven shall have the prefer
ence; and next, thug in the ascendant."—Whalley’s “ Annotations."
Chap. VIII.] P'roLnMY’s rarnamsms. 83
animals, and in the navigation of ﬂeets; if in’river signs,
such as Aquarius and Pisces, it will attach to animals living
in rivers and in fresh water: and, if in Argo, both sea
and fresh-wateranimals will be atfected by it". .
Again, should the ruling places be situated in tropical or
in equinoctial signs, in either case alike they presignify
changes in the state of the atmosphere, at the respective
season to which each sign is appropriated. For example,
with regard to the season of spring and the productions of
the earth, if the said places should be in the sign of the vernal
equinox, they will produce an effect on the buds of the vine
and ﬁg, and of such other trees as sprout forth at that season.
Should they be in the sign of the summer tropic, the event
will aﬁ'ect the gathering and depositing of fruits; and, with
respect to Egypt in particular, it will impede the rising of
the Nile. If they should be in the sign of the autumnal
equinox, they foreshow that it will operate on grain and on
various sorts of herbs; if in the sign of the winter tropic,
on potherbs, esculent vegetables, and such birds and ﬁshes
as arrive in that season. '
The equinoctial signs further indicate the circumstances
liable to happen in ecclesiastical concerns, and in religious
matters: the tropical signs give warning of changes in the
atmosphere and in political aﬁ'airs ; the ﬁxed signs, of
changes in institutions and in buildings ; and the bicorporeal
signs show that the future event will fall alike on princes
and their subjects. '
Again, the ruling places situated in the east, during the
time of the eclipse, signify that fruits4and seeds, incipient
institutions, and the age of youth, will be affected ; those
" It is perhaps unnecessary to remark, that, in speaking of ruling
places, as liable to be situated in Aquila, Delphinus or Argo, Ptolemy
alludm only to the places of the ﬁxed stars in dominion: since the
ecliptical place and the planets must be conﬁned to the zodiacal signs.
I
84 PTOLEMY’S TETRABIBLOS. [Book II.
which may be in the mid-heaven above the earth announce
that the coming event will relate to ecclesiastical aﬁ'airs, to
kings and princes, and to the middle age; those, in the
west, that it will inﬂuence the laws, old age, and persons
about to die. -
The proportion liable to be aﬁected, of that genus or kind
on which the event will fall, is to be ascertained by the mag—
nitude of the obscuration caused by the eclipse, and by the
positions held by the operative stars in regard to the eclip
tical place; as, in vespertine position to a solar eclipse, or
in matutine position to a lunar eclipse, the said stars will
most usually much diminish the effect ;—in opposition
they render it moderate ;—but in matutine position to a solar
eclipse, or in vespertine to, a lunar, they greatly augment
and extend it*.
theater IX.
The Quality and Nature of the Eﬁ'ect.
THE discrimination of the peculiar properties and character
of the effect about to be produced, and of its good or evil
nature, occupies the fourth and last division of this part of.
the subject.
These properties must be gathered from the power of the
stars which controul the ruling places, and from the coni
temperament created by their relative admixture with each
other and with the places which they controul. For, al
though the Sun and Moon are the acknowledged sources of
' According to Whalley, Cardan, in reference to the nine modes
of conﬁguration, applicable to the ﬁxed stars, says, “ When a ﬁxed
“ star is with any planet, or in any angle. consider whether it be by
“ any of these ways; if not, it is most weak; if it be, consider whe~
“ ther it be with the Sun, and not to be seen; then it is very weak.
“ Or it’ it is to be seen, and is with the Sun occidental, it is indiﬂ‘erent,
“ Or if it be seen, and is not with the Sun, it is stronger; or if it be
\“ seen, and is oriental, then it is strongest.”
\
Chap. IX.] r'roLnMv’s TETRABIBLOS. 85
all the efﬁcacy and dominion of the stars, and of their
strength or weakness, and in a certain manner regulate and
command them, still, it is by the theory of the contempora
ment, produced by the stars in dominion, that the effect is
indicated.
In order to understand the indications thus made, it is
necessary to begin by attending to the following detail of
the effective property of each planet—previously observing,
however, that, when any circumstance is said, for the sake
of brevity, to come to pass by the general inﬂuence of the
ﬁve planets, their temperament, and the power and assistance
they may derive from natures similar to their own, the ac
tual continuance of their own proper constitution, or the
I casual combination of any analogous inﬂuence, arising from
ﬁxed stars or places in the zodiac, are all, at the same time,
to be kept in view. Consequently, whenever any general
remark is herein made relative to the ﬁve planets, it will'
likewise be necessary to bear in mind both their temperament
and quality 5 as fully, indeed, as if the stars themselves had
not been named, but only their effective quality and nature.
And, it is further to be remembered, that, in every case of
compound temperament, not only the combination of the
planets with each other requires to be considered, but also
that of such ﬁxed stars and zodiacal places as share in the
natures of the planets, by being respectively connected with
them according to the familiarities already described.
Hence, when Saturn may be'sole governor, he will pro
duce disasters concomitant with cold. And, in as far as
the event may apply to the human race in particular, it will
induce among men lingering diseases, consumptions, de
clines, rheumatisms, disorders from watery humours, and at
tacks of the quartan ague; as well as exile, poverty, and a
general mass of evils, griefs, and alarms: deaths also will be
frequent, but chieﬂy among persons advanced in age. That
part of the brute creation which is most serviceable to man
.l
so Proumv’s TETRABIBLOS. A [Book 11.
will likewise suffer, and be destroyed by disease; and men
who make use of the animals thus diseased will be infected
by them, and perish with them. The atmosphere will be
come dreadfully chill and frosty, unwholesome, turbid and
gloomy, presenting only clouds and pestilence. Copious
' and destructive storms of snow and hail will descend, gene
rating and fostering insects and reptiles noxious to mankind.
In rivers, and at sea, tempests will be frequent and general,
causing disastrous voyages and many shipwrecks ; and even
ﬁsh will be destroyed. The waters of the sea will retire for
a time, and again return and produce inundations; rivers
will overﬂow their banks, and cause stagnant pools; and the
fruits of the earth, especially such as are necessary to sustain
life, will be lost and cut 06' by blight, locusts, ﬂoods, rains,
hail, or some similar agency; and the loss will be so ex
tensive as to threaten even famine. ' '
Jupiter, if he should be lord alone, will thoroughly im
prove and beneﬁt all things. Among mankind, in parti
cular, this planet promotes honour, happiness, content and
peace, by augmenting all the necessaries and comforts of
life, and all mental and bodily advantages. It induces also
favours, beneﬁts, and gifts emanating from royalty, and adds
greater lustre to kings themselves, increasing their dignity
and magnanimity: all men, in short, will share in the
prosperity created by its inﬂuence. With regard to the
operation of the event on brutes, those which are domestic
and adapted to man’s service will be multiplied and thrive;
While others, which are useless and hostile to man, will be
destroyed. The constitution of the atmosphere will be
healthy and temperate, ﬁlled with gentle breezes and mois
ture, and favourable to fruits. Navigation will be safe and
successful; rivers will rise to their just proportion; fruits
and grain, and all other productions of the earth conducive
gll
M, if"
\
to the welfare and happiness of the world, will be presented awr/
in abundance.
avat
Chap. lX.] P'rouslviv’s TETRABXBLOS. I 87
Mars, when governing alone, generally causes such mis
chief and destruction as isliiconcomitant with dryness. And,
among mankind, foreign wars will be excited, accompanied
with intestine divisions, captivity, slaughter, insurrections of
the people, and wrath of princes against their subjects ;' to
gether with sudden and untimely death, the consequence of
these disturbances. Feverish disorders, tertian agues, and
haemorrhages will take place, and will be rapidly followed by
painful death, carrying of!“ chieﬂy youthful persons: and
conﬂagration, murder, impiety, every infraction of the law,
adultery, rape, robbery, and all kinds of violence will be
practised. The atmosphere will be parched by hot, pestilential,
and blasting winds, accompanied by drought, lightnings,
and ﬁres emitted from the sky. At sea, ships will be sud
denly wrecked by the turbulence of the wind and strokes of
lightning. Rivers will fail, springs will be dried up, and
there will be a scarcity of water proper for food and suste-i I
nance. All the creatures and productions of the earth
adapted to the use of man, whether beasts, grain, or fruits,
will be damaged or destroyed by excessive heat, by storms
of thunder and lightning, or by violent winds; and what
ever has been deposited in store will be destroyed or injured
, by fire, or by heat. '
Venus, alone in dominion, generally produces the same
eﬂ'ects as Jupiter, yet with greater suavity and more agree
ably. Glory, honour, and joy will attend mankind ; happy
marriages will be contracted, and the fortunate pairs will be
blessed with numerous children. Every undertaking will
proceed prosperously, wealth will increase, and the conduct
of human life will be altogether pure, simple and pious;
due reverence being paid to all holy and sacred institutions,
and harmony} subsisting between princes and‘ their subjects.
The weather also will be of a favourable temperature, cooled
by moistening. breezes; the air altogether pure and salu
88 Pronemv’s TBTRABIBLOS. [Boole II.
brious, frequently refreshed by fertilizing showers: Voyages
will be performed in safety, and be attended by success and
proﬁt. Rivers will be improved, and receive their adequate
supply of waters 3 and all things valuable and useful to man
kind, whether animal or vegetable, will abundantly thrive
and multiply.
Mercury, if possessing dominion, is usually conjoined
with one or other of the planets beforementioned, and is
conformed and assimilated to their natures; yet as, in it
self, it presents a certain addition to their power, this planet
increases the respective impulses of them all. And, in re
gard to the operation of the event on mankind, it will pro
mote industry and skill in business; but, at the same time,
thievish propensities, robberies, and plots of treachery :‘i if
conﬁgurated with the maleﬁcs, it will produce calamities in
navigation, and will also cause dry and parching diseases,
quotidian fever, cough, consumption, and haemorrhage.—
All parts of the ceremonies and services of religion, the af
fairs of the executive government, as well as manners, cus
toms, and laws, are disposed and regulated by this planet,
conformany to its admixture and familiarity with each of
the others. And in consequence of the dryness of its na
ture, arising from its proximity to the Sun, and the rapidity
of its motion, it will generate in the atmosphere turbulent,
sharp and variable winds, together with thunders, meteors,
and lightnings, accompanied by sudden chasms in the earth,
and earthquakes : by these means it not unfrequently occa
sions the destruction of animals and plants assigned to the
service of mankind. Besides the foregoing effects, it pro
duces, when in vespertine position, a diminution of waters,
and, when matutine, an augmentation.
Each of the planets, when fully exercising its own separate
and distinct inﬂuence, will properly produce the peculiar
effects above ascribed to it ; but should it be combined with
others, whether by conﬁguration, by familiarity arising from
Chap. IX.] Prova’s TE'I‘RABIBLOS. 89
_ from the sign in which it may be posited‘l“, or by its position
towards the Sun, the coming event will then happen agree
ably to the admixture and compound temperament which
arise from the whole communion actually subsisting among
the inﬂuencing. powers. It would, however, be a business
of infinite labour and innumerable combinations, quite be
yond the limits of this treatise, to set forth fully every con
temperament and all conﬁgurations, in every mode in which
they can possibly exist; and the knowledge of them must
therefore be acquired by particular discrimination in every
instance, under the guidance of the precepts of science.—
Yet the following additional remark must not be here
omitted. >
The nature of the familiarities, subsisting between the
stars, lords of the coming event, and the countries or cities
over which the event will extend, requires to be observed ;
for, should the stars be beneﬁc, and their familiarity with
the countries liable to sustainvthe effect be unimpeded by
I any opposing inﬂuence, they will then exercise the favour
able energies of their own nature in a greater degree. And,
on the other hand, when any obstacle may intervene to ob
struct their familiarity, or when they themselves may be
overpowered by some opposing inﬂuence, the advantages
of their operation will be diminished. Again, should the
stars, lords of the coming event, not be beneﬁc, but in
jurious, their effect will be less severe, provided they may
either have familiarity with the countries on which the event
will fall, or be restrained by some opposing inﬂuence. If,
however, they should have no such familiarity, and not be
subjected to restraint by any others, endowed with a nature
contrary to their own and possessing a familiarity with the
* That is to say, (technically speaking,) by reception, or by being
posited in a sign in which another planet has a certain dignity or
prerogative.
N
a,
90 moumv's 'rn'raAnmLos. [Book II.
I
countries in question, the evils which they produce will
then be more violent and intense. 'And all these general
vaﬂ'ections, of whatever kind, whether good or evil, will be
principally thlt by those persons in whose individual nati
vities there may be Found the same disposition of the lumi
naries, (which are the. most essential signiﬁcators,) or the
' same angles,v as those existing during the eclipse which
operates the general affection. The same remark equally
applies to other persons, in whose nativities the disposition
of the luminaries and of the angles may be in opposition to
that existing during the eclipse. With respect to these
coincidences, the partile agreement, or opposition, of the
ecliptical place of the luminaries to the place of either lumi
nary in a nativity, produces an eﬂ'ect least capable of being
guarded againsti“.
‘ In conformity to the rule laid down in Chap. 6 of this Book,
those individuals whose nativities may thus resemble the position of
the heavens at the time of an eclipse, and who are here stated to be
chieﬂy liable to the effects of the eclipse, will he more aﬂ‘ected by it,
if it should be visible to them.
To the precepts contained in this chapter, Placidus makes the fol
lowing allusionl in his remarks on the nativity of Cardinal Pancirole.
—“ Any signiﬁcator whatever, together with the other stars, whilst
“ they are moved by a converse universal motion, change the aspect
i“ alternately, and consequently the mundane rays, as it likewise
“ happens when they acquire. parallelsz—thc rays thus acquired are
“ of a long continuance, and denote a certain universal disposition
“ of the things signiﬁed, either good or bad, according to the nature
t‘ of the aspecting stars; as it happened to this Cardinal, who some
“ years before his death was always sickly: and this observation is
“ wonderful in the changes of the times and weather ; for this prin
“ ciple Ptolemy adhered to in the Almagest, lib. VIII, cap. 4; and
‘“ this doctrine he also mentions in the 2d Book of Judgments, in
1" the chapter on the Nature of Events.”—(Cooper’s Translation,
p. are.)
Chap. X.] r'roLEMY’s 'rn'rnnmnms. \ 91
@baptzr X. ‘
Colours in Eclipees; Comm, and similar Phenomena.
In investigating general-events, it is necessaryfui'ther to
observe the colours or ‘hues displayed duringpan eclipse,
either in the luminaries, or around them; in the shape of
rods or rays, or in other similar forms. For, if these co- _
lours or hues should be black, on greenish, they portend ef
fects similar to those produced by Saturn’s nature; if white,
to those operated by Jupiter; if reddish, to those by Mars;
if yellow, to those by Venus; and if of various colours, to
those by Mercury.
And, if the entire bodies of the luminaries be thus co
loured, or should the hues extend over all the parts imme
diately circumjacent to the luminaries, it is an indication that
the effects will attach to most parts of' the region, or coun
tries, with which the eclipse and its ruling places may be in
familiarity. If, however, the colouring should not spread
over the whole surface of the luminaries, nor over all the
parts around them, but be limited to some particular quarter,
then only such a portion of the said countries, as may be
indicated by the situation of the visible hues, will be com
prehended in the event.
It is also requisite to notice, with respect to general events,
~ the risings or ﬁrst appearances of those celestial phenomena
called comets, whether presenting themselves at ecliptical
times or at any other periods. They are displayed in the
shape of beams, trumpets, pipes, and in other similar ﬁgures,
and operate eﬂ‘ects like those of Mars and Mercury; ex
' citing wars, heated and turbulent dispositions in the atmo-'
sphere, and in the constitutions of men, with all their evil
consequences. The parts of the zodiac“ in which they
" When a comet appears out of the zodiac, a line should be drawn
from one zodiacal pole to the other, through the spot whereitap
92 r'roLBMv’s Tarnsnrnnos. [Book Il.
may be posited when they ﬁrst appear, and the direction and
inclination of their trains, point out the regions or places
liable to be atfeeted_by the events which they threaten; and
theigfoilm indicates the quality and nature of those events,
’as well as the genus, class, or kind, on which the eﬂ'ect will
fall. The time of their continuance shews the duration of
their effect; and their position, with regard to the Sun, the
~ period when it will commence; as, if they ﬁrst appear ma
tutine, they denote an early commencement; but, if vesper
tine, that it will be late and tardy.
The general and more comprehensive parts of the consi
deration regarding regions, countries, and cities, having now
been explained, it becomes necessary to discuss certain par
ticular points of the same consideration; that is to say, the
annual occurrences which take place at certain ﬁxed seasons,
and the chief of which is that called the New Moon of the
Year.
~ ethapttr XI.
The New Moon of the Year.
In every annual revolution made by the Sun, the ﬁrst new
Moon of the year is to be considered as the point of the
commencement of his circuit; this is evident not only from
its denomination, but from its virtue also“.
pears; and that spot is to be considered as being in familiarity with
the some countries as those parts of the zodiac which may be on the
same line.~—-Vide Chap. 4 of this Book, relative to the manner in
which ﬁxed stars out of the zodiac bold familiarity with certain re
gions and countries. \
* The Neomeuia, or new Moon, was observed as a festival with
much solemnity in earlier ages and by the most ancient nations. It
was celebrated by the Israelites, as well as by Pagans; and it may
perhaps be gathered from the 5th and 6th verses of the 20th Chapter
of the 1st Book of Samuel, that it was kept once in a. year with great
er ceremony than at other times: this was done, probably, at the
“New Moon of the Year,” as Ptolemy calls it ; or, in other Words, at
the new Moon nearest to the vernal equinox. ii
Chap. XL] rroLnMY’s TB'I‘RABiBLOS. 93
The case stands thus :-—In the ecliptic, which, as a circle,
has in fact no actual or deﬁnite beginning, the two equi
noctial and the two tropical points, marked by the equator
and the tropical circles, are reasonably assumed as begin
nings. And to obviate any doubt as to which of these four
points should preferably be considered as the primary begin
ning, (since in the regular simple motion of a circle no part
of it has any apparent precedence,) the appropriate quality
naturally belonging to each of these four points has been
taken into consideration by the writers on this subject.
And the point of the vernal equinox has been consequently
‘ designated by them as the beginning of the year; because,
from that time, the duration of the day begins to exceed
that of the night, and because the season then produced
partakes highly of moisture, which is always a predominant
quality in all incipient generation and growth. After the
vernal equinox comes the summer solstice; when the day
attains its greatest length, and in Egypt, at the same period,
the rise of the Nile takes place and the Dog Star appears.
Then follows the autumnal equinox, when all fruits are
gathered in, and the sowing of seeds recommences anew;
lastly, comes the winter solstice, when the clay proceeds from
its shortest duration towards its increase. ‘
Although the foregoing arrangement has been adopted by
men of science to denote the commencement of the several
seasons of the year, it yet seems to be more consonant to
nature, and more consistent with the facts, that the com
bined positions of the Sun, and the new, or full, Moon,
which happen when the Sun is nearest to the points above
mentioned, should mark the four beginnings; and more
I especially ifsuch combined positions should produce eclipses:
th'us, from the new or full Moon, taking place when the'
Sun is nearest to the ﬁrst point of Aries, the spring should
be dated; from that when the Sun is nearest to the ﬁrst
point of Cancer, the summer; from that when he is nearest
to the ﬁrst point of Libra, the autumn; and from that when
94 P'roLEMY’s rn'raanrnros. [Book II.
he is nearest to the ﬁrst point of Capricorn, the wihter.
The Sun not only produces the general qualities and consti
tutions of the seasons, by 'means of which very illiterate
persons are enabled, in a certain degree, to form predictions,
but he also regulates the proper signiﬁcations of the signs
'with regard to the excitation of the winds, as well as other
general occurrences, more or less subjected to occasional vari
ation. All these general effects are usually brought about
by the new or full Moon which takes place at the aforesaid
points, and by the conﬁgurations then existing between the
luminaries and the planets: but there are certain particular
consequences which result from the new and full Moon in
every sign*, and from the transits of the planets; “and
" which require monthly investigation-f.”
It therefore becomes necessary to explain, in the ﬁrst in
stance, the particular natures and attributes exercised by
each sign in inﬂuencing the several constitutions of the
weather, as it exists at various times of the year ;—these
natures and attributes shall now be immediately detailed.
It will be recollected, that the peculiar properties of the
planets and the ﬁxed stars, as affecting the wind and the
atmosphere, as- well as the manner in which the entire signs
hold familiarity with the winds and the seasons, have been
already set forth.
chapter XII.
The particular Natures of the Signs by which the
Constitutions of the Atmosphere are prodtwed.*
THE sign of Aries has a general tendency, arising from the
presence of the Equinox, to promote thunder and hail.
‘ That is to say, at the new and full Moon taking place during the
Sun’s progress through each sign.
1- The passage marked thus “ ” is not in the Greek, but is found
in two Latin copies.
1‘ According to Wing, in his “ Introduction to the Ephemerides,"
printed in 1652, the signs, as mentioned'in this chapter by Ptolemy,
an to he considered in their quality as constellations, and not as
Chap. XII.] PTOLBMY'S TETRABIBLOS. 95
Certain of its parts, however, operate in agreater or less
degree, according to the nature of the stars which compose
the sign : for instance, the front parts excite rain and wind ;
the middle are temperate; and those behind are heating and
pestilential. The northern parts, also, are heating and
pernicious, but the southern cooling and frosty.
The sign of Taurus, in its general character, partakes of
both temperaments", but is nevertheless chieﬂy warm. Its
front parts, and especially those near the Pleiades, produce
earthquakes, clouds and winds: the middle parts are moist
ening and cooling; those behind, and near the Hyades, are
ﬁery, and cause meteors and lightnings. The northern
parts are temperate; the southern turbulent and variable.
Gemini, in its general tendency, is temperate; but its
leading parts produce mischief by moisture; its middle parts
are entirely temperate; its latter parts mixed and turbulent.
The northern parts promote earthquakes and wind ; and the
southern are dry and heating.
Cancer is, in the whole, serene and warm, but its anterior
parts near the Preesepe are oppressively hot and suffocating;
the middle parts are temperate, and the latter parts excite
wind. And both its northern and southern parts are equally
ﬁery and scorching.
Leo has a general tendency operative of stifling heat.
The anterior parts are oppressively and pestilentially hot;
yet the middle parts are temperate; and those behind are
injurious by means of moisture. The northern parts pro
duce variation and heat, and the southern moisture.
Virgo, in its general tendency, excites moisture and thun
spaces of the heavans. This opinion, however, seems to me to be
erroneous; for Ptolemy has already devoted a chapter in the lst Book
to the detail of the inﬂuences of the several stars in the respective
constellations of the zodiac; and he moreover speaks, in the present
chapter, of the operation of Aries, as owing to the presence of the
Equinox. This he could not have done, had be spoken of the signs
as constellations instead of spaces. .
* The temperaments here alluded to are, probably, heat and cold.
96 P'roLqu’s TB'I‘RABIBLOS. . [Book II.
der. The front parts, however, are chieﬂy warm and
noxious; the middle temperate; and the latter parts watery.
The northern parts promote wind; the southern are tem
perate. '
Libra has a general tendency to produce change and varia
tion. ‘Its front and middle parts are temperate; its hinder
'parts watery. The northern parts cause variable winds, and
the southern are moistening and pestilential.
Scorpio, in its general character, is ﬁery and productive
of thunder. The front 'parts' cause sn0w; the middle are
temperate; the latter parts excite earthquakes. Its northern
parts are heating; its southern, moistening.
Sagittarius, generally, is effective of wind. The front
parts are moistening; the middle temperate ; and the hinder
parts ﬁery. The northern parts promote wind, and the
southern variation and moisture.
Caplicorn’s general tendency is to operate moisture. But
its anterior parts are pernicious by means of heat, its mid
dle parts are temperate, and its latter parts promote rain.
Both its northern and southern parts are injurious by means
of moisture.
Aquarius, in its general character, is cold and watery.
The front parts are moistening ; the middle temperate; and
the latter parts productive of wind. The northern parts are
heating ; the southern cause snow.
Pisces, in its general character, is cold and eﬂ'ective of
wind. The front parts are temperate ; the middle moisten~
ing; the hinder parts highly heating. The northern parts
excite wind, and the southern are watery.
Qtﬁapttr XIII. .
Mode of Consideration for particular Constitutions of the
Atmosphere.
THE ﬁrst part of the consideration, requisite to form an
estimate of the various constitutions liable to take effect in
Chap. XIII.] Promuv’s TB'I‘RABIBLOS. 97
the atmosphere, applies to the general qualities pervading
the several quarters of the year, and has therefore the most
extended scope. In orderto learn these qualities, it is neces~
sary, in every quarter, to observe, as above directed, the
new or full Meon which may happen before”F the period of
' “ Before." Although I have thus englished the Word I50, I think
it properly requires to be here rendered, by “at” or “near to,” rather
than “ before.” Firstly, because my author, (in speaking ofthe com
mencement of each quarter of the year, in the 11th Chapter, p. 93,)
has expressly stated that “ the spring is to be dated from the new or
“ full Moon taking place when the Sunis nearest (rim-s) to the ﬁrst
“ point of- Aries ; the summer from that, when he is nearest the ﬁrst
“ point of Cancer," kc. &c.; and (in p. 5%) ‘he states that certain
“ general eﬂ'ects are brought about by_the new or full Moon occurring
“ at (can) the aforesaid points.” Secondly, because, in a few lines
further on, in speaking of the monthly consideration, p. 98, he again
uses only ll’ylca, in reference to the present passage, in which, how
ever, he has used only we. ‘ Thirdly, it is a proper inference that he
meant to point out here the new or full Moon which may happen
nearest to the tropical or equinoctial points, because he has previously
and expliciﬂy taught that the principal variation of all things depends
upon those points. Lastly, Allatius has here rendered the word by
no other than proximé, which is also the Word given in the Perugio
latin of 1646. '
On the other hand, Whalley, in his note on the present chapter,
says, that “ according to this Prince of Astrologers,” (meaning Pto~
lolly) “ We are‘ to observo the new or full Moon preceding the in
“ gross, only, for ourjudgment on the succeeding quarter, and not the
“ lunation succeeding: and the reason I conceive to be, because the
“ lunation, which immediately precedes the ingress, carries its inﬂu
“ ence to the very position of the ingress itself, but not so that which
“ follmvs the ingress." \Ving, in his Introduction to the Ephemcrides
(London 1652) also says, that “ for the knowledge of the Weather, it is
“ requisite to observe the conjunction or opposition of the luminaries
“ next preceding the Sun’slingress into the ﬁrst point of Aries.”
Now, if a new or full Moon happen immediately qﬂer the Sun’s
transit or ingress, the previous full or new Moon must have happen—
ed afortnight before the said transit or ingress; and, after considering
the other parts of Ptolemy’s doctrine, I do not conceive, that he
0
98 PTOLEMy’s 'ra'laantams. - [Book II.
the Sun’s transit through either tropical or equinoctial :
point, whichever it may be; and to arrange the angles (as in
the case of a nativity) according to the degree and hour at
which the new or full Moon may be found to happen, in
every latitude for which the consideration may be desired.
Such planets and stars as may have dominion over the
places where the said new or full Moon happens, and over
the following angle, are then to be noted; in thesamei
manner as that stated with regard to eclipses. And after
these preliminary steps have been attended to, a general
inference may be drawn as to the proper qualities of the;
whole quarter; and the intensity or relaxation of their ope-,
ration is to be contemplated from the natures of the ruling.
planets and stars, distinguished by the faculties they possess,
and by the mode in which they aﬂ'ect the atmospheres
The second part of the consideration relates to each month,
and reqtdrEs a similar observation of the new or full Moon'
ﬁrst taking place on the Sun’s progress through each sign:
and it must be remembered, that, if a new Moon should have
happened at a period nearest to the Sun’s transit over the
past tropical or equinoctial point, the new Moon!) also in
each succeeding sign, until the commencement of the next
quarter, are to be observed ; but, if a full Moon should have
so happened, then similar observation is to be made of each
subsequent full Moon. The angles, also, must- be duly
attended to, as well as the planets and stars ruling in both‘
the places*; and especially the nearest phases, applications,
intended to teach, in this chapter, that a previous lunation, when at
so greata distance before the important ingress, would have a' great
er inﬂuence over the ensuing quarter of the year, than a subsequent
lunation taking place so closely after the said ingress.
’ “Both the places” These are the places of the new or full
Moon, and of the following angle; as before mentioned with regard
to the quarterly consideration.
Clmp. XIIIJ PTOLEMY'S 'rn'raaammsl. 99
and separations of the planets, and their properties. The
peculiar qualities of the two places, and the winds, liable
to be excited by the planets themselves and by those parts
of the signs in which they may be situated, are likewise to
be considered ; and also that particular wind, which is
indicated by the direction of the Moon’s ecliptical latitude.
By the aid of these observations, and by weighing and com
paring the existing vigour of each of the several properties
and qualities, the general constitution of the atmosphere
during each month may be predicted.
The third part of this consideration appertains to signiﬁ
cations applying more minutely, and points out their force
or weakness. In this case, the partile conﬁgurations of the
Sun and Moon, at the intermediate quarters, as well as at
the new or full Moon, are to be attentively regarded ; since
there is a'certain variation in the constitution of the atmo
sphere, which usually commences about three days before,
and sometimes, also, about three days after the Moon has
equated her course to the Sun. The conﬁgurations eﬁ'ected
between the Moon, at each quarterly equation, and the
planets, whether by the trine, sextile, or other authorized
distances, are also to be observed ; because the peculiar
property of the change in the constitutions of the atmo
sphere depends much upon such conﬁgurations, and may
be accordingly perceived by considering the nature of the
inﬂuence which the said conﬁgurated planets and the signs
exercise over the atmosphere and the winds. '
The particular quality of the weather, thus produced, will
be more fully established on certain days; especially when
the brighter and more efﬁcacious ﬁxed stars may be near the
Sun, either matutine or vespertiue; as, when so posited,
they most frequently ’convert the constitution of the atmo
sphere to an agreement with their own natures: and, when'
the Luminaries may transit any one of the angles, a similar
effect is also produced. At all such positions the particular
100 P'roumv’s TE'rnABiBLos. [Book II.
constitutions of the atmosphere are subject to variation, and
thus become alternately more intenseor more relaxed in
their respective qualities. Inxthis manner, by certain posi
tions of the Moon, the ﬂux and reﬂux of the sea are caused :
and, when the Luminaries may be in angles, a change of
the wind is produced, according to the direction of the
Moon's ecliptical latitude.
Finally, in all these considerations, it must be remem
bered that the more general and ﬁrst constituted cause takes
precedence, and that the particular cause comes subse
quently and secondarily: and, that the operation is in the
highest degree conﬁrmed and strengthened, when the stars,
which regulate the general effects, may be also conﬁgurated
towards the production of the particular eﬂ'ects.
, crisper XIV.
' The Signiﬁcation ofMeteors.
IN order to facilitate prognostic'ation in minor and more
limited instAnces, it is important to make further observa
tion of all remarkable appearances occasionain visible around
or near the Sun, Moon, and stars. And, for the diurnal
state of the atmosphere, the Sun’s rising should be remark
ed; for the nocturnal state, his setting; but the probable
duration of any such state must be considered by reference
to the Sun’s conﬁguration with the Moon; for, in most
cases, each aspect, made between them, indicates the con
tinuance of a certain state until another aspect shall take
place.
Hence, the Sun, when rising or setting, if he shine cleat
and open, free from mists, gloom, and clouds, promises
serene weather. But, if he have a wavering or ﬁery orb,
or seem to emit or attract red rays, or if he be accompanied
in any one part by the clouds called parhelia, or by other
reddish clouds of extended ﬁgure, in the form of long rays,
Chap. XIV.] PTOLEMY’s Ts'rhsnintos. 101
\\
.he then portends violent winds, chieﬂy liable to arise from
those parts ih which the said phenomena may have shewn
theﬁiselves. If he should bepale or lurid, and rise or set _
encumbered with clouds, or surrounded by halos, he indi
cates storms and winds coming from the quarter of his ap
parent situation; and, if he be also accompanied by parhelia,
or by lurid or dark rays, similar effects are also threatened
from the parts where those appearances may be situated*. '
The Moon’s course is to be carefully observed, at the
third day before or after her conjunction with the Sun, her
opposition,. and her intermediate quarters; for, if she then
shine thin and clear, with no other phenomena about her,
she indicates serenity; but, if she appear thin and red, and
have her whole unilluminated part visible, and in a state of
vibration, she portends winds from the quarter of her latitude
and declinatioer : and if she appear dark, or pale and thick,
she threatens storms and showers. All halos for-med around
vthe Moon should also be observed ; for, if there appear one
only, bright and clear, and decaying by degrees, it promises
serene weather; but, if two or three appear, tempests are
indicated : and, if they seem reddish and broken, they
threaten tempests, with violent and boisterous winds; if
dark and thick, they foreshgw storms and snow; if pale, or
black and broken, tempests with winds and snow, both:
’ Similar precepts may be found ﬁnely illustrated in 'Virgil’s 1st
Georgie, vide l. 438 et infra:
“ Sol quoque et exoriens et cum se condit in undas
“ Signa debit :”—
1- Virgil has said almost the same thing in these beautiful lines:
“ At si virgineum suﬂ‘uderit ore ruborem
“ Ventus erit: vents semper rubet aurea Phoebe."
Georg. I, l. 480.
See also the whole passage, beginning at l. 494:
“Si vero Solem ad rapidum Lunasqnc scquentes
“ Ordine rospieies," 6w.
102 P'rommv’s TE'raanmLos. [Book II.
and, whenever a greater number may appear, storms of greater
fury are portended.
The planets, also, and the brighten ﬁxed stars, occasion
' ally haVe halos, which indicate certain etl'ects appropriate to
.their tinctures, and to the nature of the stars around whic
they may be situated. "
The apparent magnitudes of the ﬁxed stars, and the co
lours of theluminous masses among them, are likewise to be
remarked : for, when the stars appear brighter and larger
than usual, they indicate an excitation of the wind from that
quarter in which-they may be situated. The nebulous mass
of the Przesepe in Cancer, and others similar to it, also 're
quire observation; as, if in ﬁne weather they appear gloomy
and indistinct, or thick, they thereby threaten a fall of rain;
but, if clear and in continual vibration, they announce rough
gales of wind‘.
Appearances occasionally visible in the sky, resembling
the trains of comets'r, usually indicate wind and drought;
in a degree proportionate to their multitude and conti
nuance.
Appearances, resembling shooting or falling stars, when
presented in one part only, threaten a movement of wind
from that part1 ; when in various and opposite parts, they
“ At this place, the following sentence, not found in the Greek, is
inserted in a Latin translation :
“ If the northern of the two stars, situated one on each side of the
“ Praesepe, and called the Asini, should not appear, the north wind
“ will blow: but, if the southern one be invisible, the south wind."
1- These coruscations are, perhaps, similar to those now known by
the name of the Aurora Borealis.
I Virgil again: ,
“ Saepe etiam stellas vento impendente yidebis
“ Praecipites coelo labi.”-—&c. Georg. I, l. 365.
A great part of the 1st Georgie consists of astrological rules for pre
dicting the weather, closely resembling the precepts here given by
Ptolemy. Virgil is said to have adopted his doctrine from Aratus.
(700p. XIV.] Proumv’s TETRABIBLOS. 103 '
portend the approach of all kinds of tempestuous weather,‘
together with thunder and lightning. Clouds resembling
ﬂeeces of wool will also sometimes presage tempests ; and
the occasional appearance of the rainbow denotes, in stormy
weather, the approach of serenity ; in ﬁne weather, storms.—
And, in a word, all remarkable phenomena, visible in the
sky, universally portend that certain appropriate events will
be produced, each harmonizing with its proper cause, in the
manner herein described.
After the foregoing brief investigation of the more limited
as well as more extensive signiﬁcations, regarding general
events, it becomes proper to proceed to the doctrine of ge
nethliacal prognostication, or judgment of individual nati
vines.
END or BOOK -II.
104 Prouuv’s 'rn'rnamuos. {hook Ill; ,
BQOK THE THIRD. ‘
thapter I.
From.
IN the preceding pa'ges, such'events as aﬂ'ect the world
generally have been discussed in priority; because they are
operated by certain principal and paramount causes, which
are, at the same time, predominant over particular and mi
nor events applicable only to the separate properties and
natural pccuh'aritics of individuals. The foreknowledge of
these particular events is called Genethlialogy, or the science
ofNativities. I
*It must be remembered that the causation, by which all
eﬁects, whether general or particular, are produced and fore
known, is essentially one and the same ; for the motions of
the planets, and of the Sun and Moon, present the operative
causation of events which happen to any individual, as well
as of those which happen generally; and the foreknowledge
of both may be obtained by the same accurate observation of
the distinct natures of the several creatures and substances,
subjected to the inﬂuence of the heavenly bodies, and by due
attention to the changes produced in those natures, by the
conﬁgurations displayed in the Ambient by the planetary
motion.
Still, however, the causes of general events are greater and
more complete than thoSe of particular events; and, al
though it has been now stated, that one single identical
power supplies both the causation and the foreknowledge of
, v
Chap. 1.] ProLan’s: 'rn'rnanmros. ' 105 '
general as well as particular events, yet there does not be
long to the two sorts of events a similar origin or beginning,
at which observation of the ccelestial conﬁgurations must be
made, for prognostication. In regard to general events, the
dates of origin and commencement are many and various ;
for all general events cannot be traced to one origin, neither
is their origin always considered by means of the matter sub-~
:jected to their operation, for it may be also established by
circumstances occurring in the Ambient and presenting the
causation. It may, in fact, almost be said that they all ori-
ginate in eminent eclipses of the Luminaries, and in remark
able transits made by the stars, at various times.
Particular'events, however, which concern men indivi
dually, may be traced to one origin, single as well as mani
fold. A Their origin is single, in respect to the primary com
position of the nascent man 5 but it is also manifold, in re
spect to other circumstances subsequently indicated by dispo-'
sitions/in the Ambient, correlative to the primary origin. In
all particular events, the origin, or birth, of the subjected
matter itself, must of course be the primary origin ; and, in
succession thereto, the various beginnings of other subse
quent circumstances are to be assumed. Hence, therefore,
at the origin of the subjected matter, all the properties and
peculiarities of its contemperament must be observed; and
then the subsequent events, which will happen at certain
periods, sooner or later, are to be considered by means of the
division of time, or the scale of the ensuing years*.
* The Division of Time is subsequently laid down by the author,
in the last Chapter of the fourth Book. '
s
106 Proumv‘s 'rn-rnnmms. [Book III.
@Daptzr II.
n." Conception, and the Parturition, or Birth; by which
_ latter Event the Animal quits the Womb, and assumes ano
‘ ther State of Existence.
Tin; actual moment, in which human generation com
mm; is in fact, by nature, the momenth the conception
itsplf; but, in efﬁcacy with regard to subsequent events, it is
the parturition or birth.
In every case, however, where the actual timeof concep—
tion may be ascertained, either casually or by observation, it
is useful to remark the effective inﬂuence of the conﬁgura~
tion of the stars as it existed at that time; and, from that
inﬂuence, to infer the future personal peculiarities of mind
and body. For the seed will,at the very \ﬁrst, and at once,
receive its duo quality, as then dispensed by the Ambient;
and, although in subsequent periods its substance is varied
by growth and, conformation, it will still, by the laws of
nature, congregate, during its growth, only such matter as
may be proper to itself, and will become more and more im.
hood with the. p¢culiar property of the ﬁrst quality impregied
on it at the time of conception. These precepts must always
‘ boattended to, when that time can be ascertained.
But, if the time of concoption cannot be precisely made
out, that of the birth must be received as the original date
of generation; for it is virtually the most important, and is
in no respect deﬁcient, on comparison with the primary
origin by conception, except in one view only; viz. that
the origin by conception affords the inference of occurrences
which take effect previously to the birth, whereas the origin
by birth can, of coirrse, be available only for such as arise
subsequently. And, although the birth should in strictncss
be called the secondary beginning, while the conception
might he insisted on as the primary beginning, it is still'
Chap. lI.] P'roLnMx’s TETRABIBLOS. 107
found to be equal to the conception in its eﬂiceqy, and
much more complete, although later in time; For the con
ception may, in fact, be said to be the generation of mere
human seed, but the birth that of man himself; binoe the
infant at its birth acquires numerous qualities which it could
not possess while in the womb, and which are proper to
human nature alone; “such, for instance, as the particular
“ action of the senses and the movement of the body and
“ limbs'.” Besides, even if the position of the Ambient,
actually existing at the birth, cannot be considered to assist
in forming and engendering the particular shape and quali
ties of the infant, it is nevertheless still auxiliary to the in
fant’s entrance into the world: because nature, after com
pleting the formation in the womb, always eﬂ'ects the birth
in immediate obedience to some certain position of the Am
bient, corresponding and sympathizing with the primary
position which operated the incipient formation. It is there~
fore perfectly admissible, and consistent with reason, that the
conﬁguration of the stars, as it exists at the time of birth,
although it cannot be said to possess any share of the crea
tive cause,‘should still be considered to act in signiﬁcation,
as fully as the conﬁguration at the time of conception; be
cause it has, of necessity, a power corresponding to that con
ﬁguration which/ actually possessed the creative cause.
In speaking of the practicability of prognostication, in the
commencement of this treatise, the intention of setting forth
this part of the subject, now under consideration, in a scien~
tiﬁc manner, has been already notiﬁed. The antient mode
of prediction, founded on the commixture of all the stars,
and abounding in inﬁnite complication and diversity, will
therefore be passed over; and, in fact, any attempt to detail
it, however accurately and minutely made, in conformity to
" The words, thus marked “ ", are not in the Greek, but in tw
Latin translations. ‘ \ ‘
106 P'rOLEMY’s TETRABIBLOS. [Book I II.
the several precepts given in the traditions relating to it,
would prove unserviceable and unintelligible :y it is there
fore entirely abandoned. And the doctrine, now presented,
comprehending every species of event liable to happen, and
explaining all the eﬂ'ective inﬂuences generally exercised by
the stars, in their separate qualities, over every species of
event, shall be delivered succinctly, and in agreement with
the theory of nature.
With this view, certain places in the Ambient, .regulating
the formation of all inferences of the events liable t01aﬂ'ect
.mankind, are appointed as a kind of mark to which the whole
theory of those inferences is applied, and to which the opera
tive powers of the stars, when holding familiarity withthe
said places, are in a general manner direCted: in the same
wayv as, in archery, the arrow is directed to the target.—And
any event, which depends on the compound temperament of
many various natures and inﬂuences together, must be left to
the discretion of the artist, who, like the skilful archer,-_must
himselfjudge of the best mode of. hitting the mark. '1
To proceed. methodically and in due order, it is proper ,to
commence by investigating'such general events'as- are .open
to consideration, and liable to have happened, or to happen,
at the actual‘origin by birth ; since, from that origin, all
things necessary to be investigated may be gathered ; as be
fore stated. Yet, if a previous inquiry, by means of the
primary origin by conception, shouLd nevertheless be desired
and undertaken, such an inquiry may still in some degree
assist prognostication; although only in regard to properties
and qualities dispensed and imbibed at the time of conception.
@ﬁiptttf III.
The Degree ascending.
THERE frequently arises some uncertainty as to the pre
cise time of birth, and some apprehension lest it'should not
be accurately noted. In most cases, the actual minute of the
Chap. 111.] .P'rotasn’s 'rsrnaurntos. 109
hour, at which the birth happens, can only beascertained by
making a scientiﬁc observation, at the time, with an horo
,scopical astrolabe“ ; for all other instruments, employed
in ascertaining the hour, are almost always fallacious, al
though-used by many-persons with much care and attention.
.The clepsydra 1', for instance, is subject to error, because
the ﬂow of the water will, from various causes, proceed ir
regularly : and the sun-dial is often incorrectly placed, and
itsgnomon often distorted from the true meridian line. To
obviate the difﬁculty arising from the inaccuracy of these
instruments, it seems highly necessary ,to present some
method by which thev actually ascending degree of the zo
(liaczmay- bet easily'ascertaiued, in a natural and consistent
manner. .
. » And .in- order to attain this essential point, it is necessary
ﬁrst. to 'set down the'ordinary'degree which, by the Doctrine
of AscensionsI, is found near the ' ascendant at the pre
sumed hour. -'After this has been done, the new or full
Meon, whichever it maybe, that may take place next be
fore the time of parturition, must be observed: and, if a
newMoon, it_will be necessary to mark exactly the degree of
the conjunction of the two luminaries ; but, if a full Moon,
the degree of that luminary only which may be above the
earth during the parturition. After this, it must be observed
what planets have dominion over the said degree : and their
dominion depends always on the ﬁve following prerogatives,
* It is, perhaps, needless to remark that modern improvements in
science have superseded the use of this, .and other antient instru
ments here mentioned.
t Although the “clepsydra,” or watevclock, was commonly used
among the antients for various purposes, it appears, from Martian
(a. Latin writer, who lived about A. D. 490,) that there was also a elep
sydrav in special use as an astrological engine.
I “ The Doctrine ofAscensions,"—-in allusion to the method of ca!
culating the actual position of the ecliptic.
110 woman’s ssraumtos. [Book III.
viz. on triplicity, house, exaltation, terms, and phase or
configuration" ; that is to say, a planet, eligible to dominion,
must be connected with the degree in question either by one,
or more, or all of these prerogatives.
If, therefore, there may be found any one planet properly
qualiﬁed in all or most of these prerogatives, the exact de
gree, which it occupies in that sign in which it may be po
sited during the parturition, is to be remarked ; and it is
then to be inferred that a degree of the same numerical de~
nomination was actually ascending, at the precise time of
‘ birth, in that sign which appears, by the Doctrine of Ascen
sions, to be nearest to the ascendant-f. .
But when two planets, or more, may be equally qualiﬁed
in the manner prescribed, it must be seen which of them may
transit, during the parturition, a degree nearest in number to
the ordinary degree shewn by the Doctrine of Ascensions to
be then ascending ; and that said degree, nearest in number,
is to be considered as pointing out the numerical denomina
tion of the degree actually ascending. And when the de
grees of two planets, or more, may closely and equally ap
proximate in numerical denomination to the ordinary degree
found by the Doctrine of Ascensions, the degree of that
planet which possesses further claims, by connection with
the angles and by its own condition, is to regulate the number
of the actually ascending degree.
It must however be observed, that if the actual distance of
the degree, in which the ruling planet may be posited, from
the ordinary degree ascending, be found to exceed its distance
from the ordinary degree of the mid-heaven ; the numerical
denomination, found in the way above mentioned, is then to
be considered as applicable to the actual degree in culmina
' “Pluue or conﬁguration.” 01', holding some authorized aspect
to the degree in question.
1' Or, on the ascendant.
Chop. IV.] Protnuv’s TETRABIBLOS. 111
tion ; and the other angles are to be arranged in conformity
therewith’l‘.
than“: IV.
Distribution of the Doctrine of Natioitz'es.
AFTER due attention to the preceding instructions, the doc
trine of genethliacal prognostication should be separately _
and distinctly considered, for the sake of order and per
spicuity, in its ﬁrst, second, and successive divisions or heads
of inquiry. It will thus be found to present a mode of inves
tigation, at once practicable, competent, and agreeable to
nature.
One division isapplicable only to certain circumstances
established previously to the birth; as, for instance, to those
which concern the parents; another to circumstances,
which may be established both before and after the birth ; as
those respecting brothers_and sisters; another to circum
stances actually occurring at the very time of birth, and im
mediately consequent thereupon: and this head of inquiry
embraces various points, and is by no means simple: and the
last division relates to events liable to take place after the
birth, at various periods, earlier or later; and it involvesa still
more diversiﬁed theory.
Thus, the questions to be solved, in regard to the actual
circumstances of the birth itself, are, whether the production
will be male or female; twins, or even more; whether it will
be monstrous; and whether it will be reared. '
The questions of the periods subsequent to the birth relate
ﬁrst to the duration of life, (which is distinct from the ques¢
tion of rearing), then to the shape and ﬁgure of the body, to
’ The precepts delivered in this Chapter have obtained the name
of Ptolemy’s Animodar : the term is probably Arabic, if it be not a
corruption of the Latin Words animum, or animam, dare, “ giving
“ animation or life ;" yet this meaning seems scarcely close enough.
112 woman’sTarn/taranosq [Book III. \ -
the bodily aﬁ'ections, and to injuries or.def_ectsin the mem- -
bers. After these, further inquiry is instituted as to the.
quality of the niind, and the mental aﬂ'ections ; then, as to
fortune, in regard to rank and honours as well as wealth.__
In succession to these, the character of the, employment or
profession is sought out; then, the questions relative to mar-y
riage and offspring, and to consentaneous friendship, are to
be considered; then, that concerning travel; and, lastly,
that concerning the kind of death which awaits the native.
The question of death, although depending, in fact, upon the
same inﬂuence as the question of the duration of life, seems
yet to ﬁnd its proper situation in being placed last in the
series. I ' ‘
On each of the foregoing points of inquiry, the doctrine
and precepts to be followed shall be thoroughly and succinctly
detailed ; but all idle conceits, promulgated by many persons
without any foundation capable of sustaining the test of
reason, shall be utterly avoided, in deference to the only
true agency, which is derived from primal Nature herself. It
is only upon clearly effective inﬂuences that this treatise is
established: and all matters, which are open to an autho
rized mode of inquiry by means of the theory of the stars,
and their positions and aspects with regard to appropriate
places, shall be fully discussed here; but the divination by
lots and numbers, unregulated- by any systematic causation,
must remain unnoticed.
The brief remarks, immediately following, are?applicable
to all cases, generally, and are now at once stated, to avoid
the repetition of them under pach particular division or head
of inquiry. I
Firstly, notice must be taken of that place in the zodiac
which corresponds, according to the scheme of the nativity,
with the particular division of inquiry: for example, the.
place of the mid-heaven is adapted to questions-comprised
ti'lzap. IV.] Protsnv’s 'rt'rnaum‘ms. ' H3
’
under the head of employment or profession; and the Sun's
place to those relative to' the concerns of the father.
Secondly, after the proper place has thus been duly ascer
tained, the planets holding right of dominion there, by any
of the ﬁve prerogatives hereiubefore mentioned, are to be
observed; and, if any one planet be found to be lord by all
these prerogatives, that planet must be admitted as the ruler
of the event liable to happen under that particular head of
inquiry. If, however, two or three planets hold dominion,
‘ that one among them, which may have most claims to the
place in question, must be selected as the ruler.
_ Thirdly, the natures of the ruling planet and of the signs,
in which itself and the place which it thus controuls may
_ severally be situated, are to be considered as indicating the
quality of the event.
Fourthly, the proportionate vigour and strength, or weak
ness, with which the dominion is exercised, as exhibited
either by the actual eosmical position of the ruling pla
net, or by its position in the scheme of the nativity, will
point out to what extent and with what force the event will
operate. And a planet is found to be cosmically powerful
when in one of its own places*, or when oriental, or swift
in course; and it is strong in the scheme of the nativity,
when transiting an angle or succedent house; especially
those of the ascendant, or of the mid-heaven. But it is
cosmically weaker, when not in one of its own places; or
when occidental, or retarded in its course ; and in respect to
the scheme of the nativity, it is weak when cadent from the
angles.
Lastly; the general time, about which the event will take
place, is to be inferred from the ruling planet's matutine or
vespertine position, in regard to the Sun and thepgcendant,
and from the circumstance of its beirlg situated in an angle,
’ In House, Triplicity, Exaltation, Term or Face.
0
114- PToLEMY’s TETRABIBLOS. [Book Ill.
or a succedent house. As, if it be matutine, or in an angle,
its inﬂuence operates earlier and more promptly; but, if
vespertine or in a succedent house, later and more tardily.
And, in reference to this point, the quadrant which precedes
the Sun, and that which precedes the ascendant, together
with the quadrants opposite to these, are oriental and ma
tutine; and the other quadrants, following the former, are
occidental and vespertine.
@hapttr V.
The Parents.
UNDER each head of inquiry, the proposed investigation
must be entered upon in the manner mentioned in the pre
ceding chapter: and, to proceed in due order, the circum
stances relating touthe parents require to be ﬁrst disposed of.
In conformitybt'o nature, the Sun and Saturn are allotted
to the person of the father; and the Moon and Venus to that
of the mother: and the mode in which these luminaries and
planets may be found posited, with reference to each other,
as well as to other planets and stars, will intimate the situation
of affairs atlecting the parents.
Thus, for example, the degree of their fortune and wealth
will be indicated by the doryphory*, or attendants of the lu
minaries. If the luminaries be accompanied, (either in the
same signs in which themselves are placed, or in the signs
next following,) by the benefics, and by such stars or planets
as are of the same tendency as themselves, a conspicuous
and brilliant fortune is presaged: especially, should the Sun
be attended by matutine stars, and the Moon by vespertine'l',
* Aopmpopm. This word has been heretofore rendered “ :atellitium”
and “ satellites”, but, as these terms do not seem sutﬁciently precise
in their m ing, and are already in use to signify the minor orbs
which revﬁ round a principal planet, I have ventured to anglicise
the Greek Word; the usuahigniﬁcation of which is a “ body-guard.”
1' Or, in other words, “ should the stars, which attend the Sun, be
“ such as rise before him ; and those, which attend the Moon, such as
“ rise after her."
Chap. V.] PToLEMY’s TETRABIBLOS. 115
and these stars be also well established in the prerogatives
before mentioned. Likewise, if Saturn or Venus be matu
tine, and in proper face*, or in an angle, it foreshews the
prosperity of either parent respectively, according to the
schemel'. If, however, the luminaries hold no connection
with the planets, and be unattended by any doryphory, the
adverse fortunes of the parents, their humble state and obscu
rity, are then denoted; especially, if Saturn and Venus may
not be favourably constituted. 'The parents are also subject
ed to a state of vicissitude, never rising above mediocrity,
when the luminaries may have a doryphory of a condition
or tendency foreign to their own: as, for instance, when
Mars may ascend near in succession to the Sun, or Saturn to
the Moon ; or if the beneﬁcs be found constituted unfavour
ably, and not in conformity with their own natural condition
and tendency. But should the part of fortune, as shewn by
the scheme of the nativity, be found in a favourable position,
and in consonance with the doryphory of the Sun and Moon,
the estate of the parents will then remain steady and secure.
If, however, the position be discordant and adverse, or if the
maleﬁcs compose the doryphory, the parents’ estate will be
unproductive and even burthensome.
The probable duration of the lives of the parents is to be
inferred by means of other conﬁgurations. And, in the case
of the father, a long life is presaged, if Jupiter, or Venus, be
in any mode whatever conﬁgurated with either the Sun, or
Saturn ; or, also, if Saturn himself make an harmonious con
ﬁguration with the Sun; (that is to say, either by the con
junction, the sextile, or the trine 3) provided such conﬁgura
tion be fully and strongly established and conﬁrmedI z—and,
" As described in Chap. 26, Book 1.
1 Saturn being applicable to the father, and Venn the mother.
I The Perugio Latin translation, of 164‘nserts re, “and pro
“ vided Saturn and the Sun are not iiQeded by being posited l‘in
“ fortunate o'r unsuitable plaqes.”' ' ' i
l 16 P'roumv’s Tn'ritABinLo-s. [Book Ill.
when not so established and continued, although it does not
actually denote a short life, yet it will not then equally presage
a long life.
If, however, the planets be not posited in the manner just
described ; and if Mars be elevated above*, or ascend in suc
cession to the Sun, or to Saturn; or, even, should saturn
himself not be in consonance with the Sun, but conﬁguran
with it by the quartile or opposition, and if, when thus pil
cumstanced, both he and the Sun should be posited in ca
dent houses, it is then indicated that the father is liable ,to
inﬁrmities; but, if in angles or succedent houses, the father
,will live only a short life, and suﬂ'er from various bodily in
juries and diseases. The shortness of his life is particularly
intimated .by the position of the Sim and ,Saturn in the ﬁrst
two angles, viz. the ascendant and the mid~heaven, or in
their succedent houses; (and his aﬂ'liction by diseases and
I injuries, when they may be posited in the two other angles,
the western and the lower heaven, or in the houses succedent
' “Elevated.” Moxon’s Mathematical Dictionary gives the fol
lowing deﬁnition of this astrological term. “Elevated. A certain
“ pro-eminence of one planet above another; or, a concurrence of
“ two to a certain act, wherein one being stronger, is carried above
,“ the weaker, and does alter and depress its nature and inﬂuence:
-‘-‘ But wherein this being elevated consists, there are several opinions;
“ somesay when a planet is nearest the zenith, or meridian; others
“ will have it only that planet that is highest; or nearest to the Apo
“ gaeon of his eccentric or epicycle- And Argol admits of all these,
“ and several other advantages, and thence advises to collect the
it several testimonies, and that that planet, who has most, shall be
*5 said to be elevated above the other.” According to Whalley,
,Cardan’s opinion was that “that planet is most elevated which is
“ more occidental and ponderous.”~ For myself, 1 conceive this opi
nion to be inaccurate, because, if Ptolemy meant to signify only the
greater occidentality of the planet, he would (as in other instances)
have used tivord wrecerlr'ny" instead of “ elevated above ;” and I
irqne to think, that greatei'n'oximity to the zenith is the truer, as
we as more simple, meaning of the term “ elevated.”
Chep- V.] rrnmy’s reraanrpcos. 117
thereto. And, if Mars be aspected to the Sun in the way
before-mentioned, the father will die suddenly, or receive in
jury in his face or eyes 5 but, should Mars be so aspected to
Saturn, he will he aﬁlictgd with ,contractionﬁ 9f the muscles
or limbs, and with fevers and disorders proceeding from in
ﬁammation and wounds ;_-—-.or even death may be the conse
quence. And even Saturn himself,~ if badly conﬁgurated
with the Sun, will also inﬂict disease and death on the father,
by inducing such particular disorders as are incidental from
watery humour, _ , -
The foregoing observations are applicable to the father,
and those which follow must be attended to in the case of
the mother.
Should the Sim he conﬁgurated, in any mode whatever,
with the Mom: or Venus, or, should Venus herself be har
moniously conﬁgurated with the Moon, either by the sextile,
the nine, or the conjunction, the wother will live long.
If, however, Mars he succedent to the Moon and Venus,
or in quartile or opposition to them, or, if Saturn be simi
larly aspected to the Moon only, and both of them be
void of course or retrograde, or cadent, adverse accidents and
disease will attend the mother; should they, on the other
hand, he swift in motion and placed in angles, they portend
that her life will be short, or grievously aﬁ’iicted. Their posi
tion in the oriental angles, or succedent houses, particularly
denotes the shortness of her life; and, in those which are
occidental, her afﬂiction. In the same manner, should
Mars be thus aspected to the Moon, (and should that lumi
nary at the same time be oriental) the mother’s sudden
death, or some injury in her face or eyes, will be produced;
and, if the Moon be then occidental, death will be occasioned
by miscarriage in parturition, by inﬂammation, or by wounds.
Bush are the effects which ensue from these aspects made
by Mars to the Moon ; but, should. he make them_ to
Venus, death will then take place from fever, some latent
118 PTOLEMY’S TETRABIBLOS. [Book III.
disease, or sudden sickness. Saturn’s aspect* to the Moon,
when she is oriental, inﬂicts on the mother disease and death
from extreme colds, or fevers; but, should the Moon be
occidental, the danger arises from affections of the womb, or
from consumption.
In the investigationof all these circumstances, it is highly
essential that the properties of the signs, in which are si
tuated the stars actuating the inﬂuence, should be also taken
into consideration; and that, by day, the Sun and Venus
should be principally observed; and, by night, Saturn and
the Moon.
If, however, after due attention has been paid to the fore
going points, a more speciﬁc inquiry should still be demanded,
it will then become necessary to assume the place allotted to
the paternal or maternal condition, as the case may be, for
an horoscope or ascendant, in order to pursue the investiga
tion 1'. And by this means, which in this respect will
answer the purpose of a nativity, all other particulars con
cerning the parents may be viewed succinctly ; according to
the general forms herein-after given, as adapted for practice
and applicable to all events.
In these and in all other cases, the mode, in which the
inﬂuences are commixed, must be carefully kept in view;
i
“ By the quartile or opposition, as before mentioned.
1- On this passage, Whalley remarks that “ Ptolemy teacheth, from
“ the child’s nativity, to erect schemes for the father and mother, and
“ thence to give judgement, as if it were their proper nativities ; the
“ rule is this: If the nativity be diurnal, for the father, observe the
“ degree the Sun is in, in the child's nativity ; and make that the dc
“ gree ascending for the father; and conformable to that, order the
“ cusps of all the other houses. If for the mother, use Venus. But if
“ the nativity be nocturnal, for the father, take the place of Saturn;
“ and for the motherfthat of the Moon." Whalley adds, that “ what
“ in this chapter hath relation to the parents, is what shall happen to
“ them aﬂer the nativity, and-not before."
Chap. V.] PTOLEMY’S TETRABIBIDS. 119
and it must be observed whether any particular stars possess,
in themselves alone, the operative cause, or whether others
share dominion with them ; and it is then to be seen which
among them all are more powerful, and which of them take
the lead in establishing the event: so that due inference
may be drawn agreeably to their several natures. And should
the several stars, which may happen to be combined in do
minion, be also equal in power, the diversity of their several
natures, and the admixture of qualities thence arising, must
then be taken into consideration; and, by fairly weighing
this various admixture, the nature and quality of the future
event may be apprehended.
Stars, posited separately or at a distance from each other,
distribute, at their appropriate times and periods, the events
operated by each: thus the earlier events are brought about
by stars which are more oriental than others, and the latter
events by those which are more occidental.
pensibly requisite that the star, under‘the‘inﬂuence of which
some particular event is expected to happen, should be ori
ginally* connected withthe place to which the inquiry, con
cerning that event, is allotted; and, if such connection should
not have existed, no effect of any importance can possibly
be produced; because a star does not exercise a vigorous
inﬂuence, unless it was fully in communication at the be
ginning. But, however, the time, at which the effect will
take place, is further regulated by the relative distance-of the
star, governing the effect, from the Sun and the angles of
the world, as well as by its primary position of dominion.
ttbapter vr.
Brothers and Sisters.
UNDER this head of inquiry, a general and cursory investi
gation, only, can be performed: and an attempt to dive into
* Or, at the actual time of nativity.
For it is indis-. lI:
12'0 mommy’s 'rs'rRABrnLos. [Book In;
\1’
minute particulars would be fruitless, and would prove to be
merely a vain search after things not open to discovery ‘1‘.
The place, whence inferences are drawn respecting brothers
and sisters, is to be considered as being applicable only to chil
dren of the same mother, and it is consequently, agreeably
to nature, presumed to be the same as the maternal place;
viz. the sign occupying the mid-heaven ; or, by day, that'
which contains Venus, and, by night, the Moon. This sign
and its succedent are considered as indicative of the mother
and her children, and the same place is therefore properly
allotted to brothers and sisters.
Hence, provided this place be conﬁgurated with the be
neﬁcs, there will be several brothers and sisters : 'the number
of them depending upon the number and positions of such
beneﬁc stars, whether in ticorporeal signs, or in signs of
single form. i
If, however, the malefics should be in elevation over this
place, or be hostilely situated in opposition thereto, the bro
thers and sisters will then be few in number; and this few
ness especially follows when the maleﬁcs may surround the.
Sun. Should the hostile conﬁguration be presented from the
other angles 1', and, particularly, if from the ascendant, Sa
turn will then represent the elder born ; and Mars, by in
ﬂicting death, will diminish the total number of brothers
and sisters 1.
* In Spite of this declaration of the author, it seems, by Whalley's
note on this chapter, that Cardan maintained that the particular cir
cumstances, liable to aﬂ'ect the brothers and sisters, might be inferred
by adopting, as an ascendant, the degree of the planet holding chief
dominion over the place of brethren, and erecting a scheme thereby;
in a mode similar to that allowed by Ptolemy in the case of the pa—
rents.
1- That is to say, from the angles in quartile (and therefore hostile
also) to the mid-heaven
1 The text does not shew whether it be necessary that Saturn and
V1.1 P'rou'sMY’s Tn'i'ttaarntos; ‘ 1-2-1
,Again, should the stars, which promise brethren, be fa
vourably circumstanced as to their cosmical position, the
brethren will be eminent and illustrious; but humble and
obscure, if the cosmical position be of an adverse nature.
If, also, the maleﬁc stars should be in elevation over those
which give brethren, the life of the brethren will then be
only of short duration.
Stars, constituted masculiriely, represent brothers; those
femininely, sisters. The more oriental stars likewise repre
sentthe elder born; and those which are more occidental, ‘
the younger. ‘
-M0reover, should the stars, which give brethren, be harmo
niously conﬁgurated with that one which has dominion of~
the sign allotted to brethren, the brethren will be mutually
friendly and affectionate: and, if an harmonious conﬁgu
ration be also extended, by the same planets, to the part of
fortune, the'brethren will live together in communion. But,
if the stars, which give brethren, should, on the contrary,
he in situations unconnected with each other, or be.in oppo
sition, the brethren will then live at variance, mutually
practising enmity and fraud.
ems. VII.
Male or Female.
Anna the indications which‘regardbrothers and sisters
have been investigated ;byr;the foregoing rules, consonant
with nature and reason; the actual native, or the person to
whom the scheme of nativity I.is .vspecjglly appropriated, de
mands attention :\ and the ﬁrstmand most obvious inquiry 15
whether the said native will be male or female.
Mars should both be in the ascendant, in order to produce the eﬂ‘ect
described; nor whether the same eifect would not follow, if one of
them should be in the_uscendant,-eaud\ﬂie qther in the occidental an
gle, or even in some other position.
B.
122 r'rommv’s TETRABIBLOS. [Book III.
The consideration of this question rests not on a single
basis, nor can it be pursued in one sole direction only : it
depends, on the contrary, upon the several situations of the
two luminaries and the ascendant, and upon such planets as
possess any prerogatives in the places of those situations;
and all,these circumstances should be specially observed at
the time of conception, and, in a general manner also, at
that of birth. '
Observation of the said three places, and of the mode in
which the planets ruling them may be constituted, is wholly
indispensible: it must be seen whether all, or most of them,
may be constituted masculiner or femininely; and prediction
must, of course, be regulated in conformity with their dispo
sition, so observed; as tending to produce a male or female
birth.
The masculine or feminine nature of the stars is to be
distinguished in the manner already pointed out in the com
mencement of this treatise *. For instance, by the nature
of the signs in__which they are situated, by their relative
position to each other, and also by their position towards
the earth; as, when in the cast, they are masculinely disposed,
and, when in the west, femininely. Their relative position
to the Sun also aH'ords guidance in distinguishing them;
since, if they should be matutine, they are considered to sig
nify the male gender; and if vespertine, the female. Thus,
from the sex chieﬂy prevalent, as observed by these rules,
that of the native may be rationally inferred. ' '
thapter VIIL,
Twins.
WITH respect to the probability of the birth of twins, or a
greater number at once, the same places must be observed,
" Virle Chapter 6, Book 1.
Chap. VIII.] P'rommv’s TBTRABIBLOS 123
“i?
\
as those mentioned in the preceding chapter; that is to say,
the places of both luminaries and the ascendant.
When two, or all three, of the said places may be situated
in bicorporeal signs, births of this kind will occur, in con
sequence of the combination which then arises ; especially,
provided all the planets, which controul those places, should
also be similarly circumstanced: or although only some of
them be posited in bicorporeal signs, while the rest may be
placed by two or more together. Because even more than
twins will be born, in a case wherein all the ruling places
may be in bicorpbreal signs, most of the planets being, at
the same time,'posited in the same way, and conﬁgurated
with_them. Thevnumb‘er of children, however, to be pro
duced at the birth, is to be inferred from that planet which
exercises the right of determining the number'l“: and the
sex or sexes are to be predicted by means of\the planets in
conﬁguration with the Sun, Moon, and ascendant.
And, should the position of, the heavens be arranged so
that the angle of the mid-heaven, and not that of the as
cendant, may be connected with the luminaries, there will,
in that case, be produced, almost always, twins; and some
times even more.
To speak, however, more particularly, three males will be
, born, as in the nativity of the Anactores T, when Saturn,
’ The planet here alluded to, scents t0 bethat which may be con
nected with most of the ruling places. '
T I have looked in many other Books for this word “ Anactores," .
(plural of nearly), as designating three partibolar individuals born at
the same birth; for which signiﬁcation it is here used by Ptolemy ;
but my search has been in vain. Cicero has, however, written a
passage, in which a word, very nearly resembling it, occurs, and
which would seem to relate to the very persons alluded to by Ptolemy :
' viz. “The godship of the Dioscuri was established in various modes
“ among the Greeks, and applied to various perons. One set eon
“ sisted of three persons, who were styled at Athens the Amwles,
124, r'roLn-Mv’s TBTRAme-ms. [£06k Ill-1'.
Jupiter, and Mars may be cenﬁgurated with the places before,
appointed, in bicorporeal signs ; and three females, as in-the
nativity of the Graces, when Venus and the Moon, with ‘
Mercury femininely constituted, may be eonﬁguratedin- like
manner. \Vhen Saturn, Jupiter, and Venus may be so
conﬁg'urated, two males and one female will be born ; as in"
the nativity of the Dioscuri *; and, when Venus, the Moon
and Mars may be so conﬁgurared, two females and one male 3
as in the nativityl of Ceres, Core and Liber 1-.
In cases of this kind, hoWever, it most usually happens
that the conception has not been complete, and that the
children are born with some remarkable imperfections or
deformities. And, in some instances, owing to a certain
concurrence of events, these numerous productions are quite
extraordinary and amazing.
“ and were the sons of Jupiter, the most antient king, and Proser
“ pine; their several names were Tritopatreus, Eubuleus and Dio
l“ nysius.” De Nat. Dear. lib. 3, cap. 21. i
" This is the second set of the Didacm‘i, as stated by Cicero: they
were the children or the third, or Cretan Jupiter (the salt of Saturn)
and Leda; their names were Castor, Pollux and Helena. Hefdnu,
however, is not mentioned by Cicero. '
“I 1 Core is aname of Proserpine ; Liber, of Bacchus. And, although
the mention here made of Ceres, Proserpine and Bacchus, as being
the oﬁspring of one and the same birth, does not accord with the
usual notion of the genealogy of these divinities, it seems that
Ptolemy did not so represent them without some reason. For,in
nip. ﬂ, lib. 2, De Nat. Dam, Cicero speaks of Liher as having
been deiﬁed conjointly with Ceres and I/ib'era, (another na‘rn‘e ~01
‘Pi-oserpins); and adds, that c it my be understood, from théri‘tes
and mysteries of the Worship, how the deiﬁ'catioh Yﬂade." It
appears sue,- try Davies’s notes on Gicero, that Livy ans 'l‘aeitds both
speak or th'e c‘o-partri'ership in divinity exercised by Lib’e'r, Liberia
and Ceres. There is however, any occasion at present to dive
deeper into the question of the generation of these deities; ibr our
author has adverted to then’r oiﬂy to point oiit that so many males or
feinale's Will'be prddde'ed it use Birth, under certain conﬁgurations of
rife star's. -
Chap. IX.] PTOLIMY’S TB'rnsnmLos. . 1'25
~leagptn: IX. 4
Monstrous or defective Births.
THE same places, as these pointed out in the two chapters.
last preceding, are again to be considered, in inquiring into'
the probability of a monstrous or defective birth. For it
will be found that, at a birth of this description, the lumi
n‘ar'tes are either cadent from the ascendant, or else not in
any manner conﬁgurated with it ; while, at the same time,
the angles * are occupied by the maleﬁcs.
It therefore becomes necessary, when such a position of
the heavens may occur at the time of birth, to observe
POrthWith the preceding new or full Moon 1- and its’ ruler; as
well as the rulers of the luminaries at the said time of birth.
For, if all the places, in which the rulers of the luminaries,
and in which the Moon herself and Mercury may be situated,
at the birth, or, if most of those places should be totally in
conjunct and unconnected with the places of the said pre
ceding new or full Moon and its ruler, the birth will then be
monstrous. And if it should be further found, in addition
to this absence of connection, that the luminaries may be
also posited in quadrupedal orbestial signs, and the two
maleﬁcs in angles, the birth will in that case not be human."
And should the luminaries, when so'circumstanced, be not
at all supported by any beneﬁc planet, but only by maleﬁcs,
the creature born will be wholly indocile, wild, and of evil
nature: if, however, they should receive support from Jupi
ter or Venus, the offspring will then be like that of dogs or'
cats, or other creatures held in religious veneratioo and used
in Worship 1: but, if Mercury support the luminaries, it will
“ Whalley says here, “ chieﬂy the ascendant and mid-heaven.”
‘l Whichever might have been nearer in time. >
I It is perhaps superﬂuous to mention that the two kinds of ani
mals here named, (as Well as many others) were venerated by the
Egyptians. - -
126 P'roLaMY’s TETRABIBLOS. I [Book III
resemble that of fowls, ,oxen, or, swine, or, of other animals
adapted to‘thé service of mankind.
_When the luminaries may be in signs of human shape,
while other circumstances in the scheme of the nativity may
exist as before described, the creature born will then be
human, or will partake of human nature, although it will
still be defective in some peculiar quality. And, in
order to ascertain the nature of that defect, the shape and
form of the signs found on the angles occupied by the
maleﬁcs, as well as of those wherein the . luminaries
are situated, must be taken into consideration: and, if in
this instance also, no beneﬁc planet should lend support to
any one of the prescribed places, the offspring produced will
be utterly void of reason, and indeed indeﬁnable’l". If, how
ever, it should happen, that Jupiter or Venus give support,
the defect will betveiled by a specious outward appearance,
similar to that of hermaphrodites, and of those persons called
Harpocratiacit, or others of like imperfections. - And should
Mercury also give support, in addition to that of Jupiter or
Venus, the offspring will then become an interpreter of ora
cles and divinations ; but, if Mercury support alone, it will
be deaf and dumbI, although clever and ingenious in its
intellect.
65am: ,X.
Children not reared.
THB question which now remains to be considered, in order
to complete the investigation of circumstances taking place
' The Greek says “ asuigmatic'al.”
1- One Latin translation has rendered this word “ stammerers ;" and,
asHarpocrates was the god of silence, Ptolemy has probably used the
epithet to signify defect of speech.
i I “ Dumb.” The Greek is 0801'er inpnprvov,“ deprived ofteeth,” and
Allatius has so translated it: but other translations render these
words by dumb, which, considering the nature of Mercury, scetns_
their preferable signiﬁcation.
I
Chap. X.] PTOLEMY’s TETRABIBLOS. 127
simultaneously with the nativity, or immediately consequent
thereon, is, whether the child, then born, will or will not be
feared. -
This inquiry is to be handled distinctly from that regard
ing the duration of life, although there is an apparent con
nection between them. The questions themselves are,indeed,
similar; for- it is much the same thing to inquire whether
the child will be nurtured, or how long it will live ; and the
only distinction, between these two questions, arises from the
different modes in which they are treated. For instance,
the inquiry into the duration of life is to be pursued only
in cases wherein there is allotted to the native some space
of time, not less in duration than a solar period; that is
to say, a year. Therefore, since time is also measured by
smaller portions, such as months, days, and hours, and
since the question, whether the native will or will not be
reared, belongs to cases wherein some exuberance of evil
inﬂuence threatens speedy destruction, and where life is not
likely to endure throughout a whole year, the inquiry into
the duration oflife must consequently involve a more multi-_
farious consideration, than that which relates to rearing;
which may be at once disposed of, in a more general and
summary manner. '
Thus, if either of the two luminaries be in an angle, and
one of the maleﬁcs be either in conjunction with that lumi
nary, or else distant in longitude from each luminary, in an
‘ exactly equal space; so as to form the point of junction of
two equal sides, of a triangle, of which sides the two lumi
naries form the extremities, while, at the same time, no be
neﬁc star may partake in the conﬁguration, and while the
rulers of the luminaries may be also posited in places belong,
ing to, or controuled by, the maleﬁcs ; the child, then born,
will not be susceptible of nurture, but will immediately
perish. \
Should the conﬁguration, made between the maleﬁc planet
. 2128 mutants mmanmnms. [Book TII.
endvtheduminanies, nob-exist precisely in the mode 'ju'st meng
-tioned; lthﬂt'iSlIZO say, should the said planet not be equally
distant from both luminaries, so as to form the point of
junction ofztwo equal sides of a-triangle ; yetshould it then
[nippemthatqtherrays of two'maleﬁcs may nearly approach the
places of 'thetwo luminaries, casting an injurious inﬁuence
either on 'both, or only one of them, and if *both the 'said
maleﬁcs beltogethersueoedent, or in opposition, to the lumi
naries,=or.if:oneof/them’be succedent, and the other in op
position, or 'evenvifonly one may particularly afﬂict one of
therluminaries, then, in any such case, no duration of life
willibe-allotted to- the child : for the supremacy of the power
of thelmaieﬁusextinguishes-the influence'favourahle to human
' nature, :and' tending to prolong existence.
Mars is)exceedingly‘pernicious when succedent to the‘Sun,
and Saturn when suece'dent-to the‘Moon‘. But a converse
eﬂ'ecttakessplace when either of these planets may be in
opposition-to the sun or ‘Moon,or. in elevation above them v;
for the JSunlwill then be aﬁli‘cted by Saturn, and the’Moon
by fMars:; tand'especially so, provided the said planets should
haveilocal fprerogatives'in the signs containing the lumina
ries, min the sign on the ascendant. And, should a double
opposition exist, by the circumstance of the luminaries being
' placedin: two opposite angles,’and‘by the two maleﬁcs being
eachso‘posi‘tedfas tohe equally distant'from each luminary,
thczohildewill'be-born-almost, if not quite, dead. Neverthe-v
less, wifzthexlumi'naries-shodld' be separating from, or be other
wise .conﬁgmated with beneﬁc planets, whose rays may be
projected-to parts-preceding ‘the said luminaries, the child
willﬂmn-live-as'manylldays, or hours, as there are degrees,
mmbered'beﬂWeenIthe\proregator* and the nearest male'ﬁc.
“" *A promgator is either a luminary, planet, or a certain degreeof
the zodiac, which determines the duration of life, or the time ofahe
accomplishment -.oﬁ any-meat :uitis lnroattlert'nlly treated of in the
Chap. XL] PTQLEM'Y’s TETRAIBIBLOS. vv129
If maleﬁcs should cast their rays to parts tireceding the
luminaries, and beneﬁcs to parts following them, the child
will be abandoned at its birth ; but will afterwards meet _with .'
adoption, and will live. Yet, if the maleﬁcs should be in
elevation above those beneﬁcs which are thus conﬁgurated,
the child, soadopted, will leadalife of misery and servitude:
if, on the contrary, the beneﬁcs should be in elevation, then
whoever may ’adopt the deserted child will supply the place
of its (parents. And, provided a beneﬁc planet should either
rascend with, or near in succession t01the Moon, or he apply
ing to her, and one of the maleﬁcs be occidental, the‘child's
own parents will, in that case, take it again under their pro
tection.
Rules similar to the foregoing are to be observed, when
more than one child is born ; for, if any one of those pla
nets, which may be configurated'thartls the production as
two, or even more, children, should be under the ‘west, the
children will he born half dead,sor deformed, and imperfect
in 'body. And, if the planet so situated should also'bé'be;
neath the maleﬁcs, the children will not be susceptible of ‘
nurture, or their life will be 'of the shortest s'Pan. ' ‘
‘dthaptet: XI.
The Duration ofLife.
Os all events whatsoever, which take place-afterlbii'th, she
most essential is the continuanee of life :_ and vas it is, of
course, useless to consider, in leases wherein the life ofa
child-does not extend to the period of one year, What other
etrents contingent on its birth might otherwise haive subse
quently happened, ;the inquiry into 'the duration of life con-i
lathGhapter'ofM-Boek; whichshewsthatA-nthe-instaneenevv-nmn- \
ttoireti', i1: wouldhe a‘luminary, either in "the ascendant, or in themid
heaven. '
s
I30 PToLEMY’s TRTRABIBLOS. [Book III.
sequently takes precedence of all other questions, as to the
events subsequent to the birth. ‘
The discussion of-this inquiry is by no means simple, nor
easy of execution ; it is conducted in a diversiﬁed process,
by means of the governance of the ruling places. And the
method now about to be laid down seems, of all others, the
most consonant with reason, and with nature; because the
inﬂuence of the prorogatory places, as well as of the rulers
of those places, and the disposal of the anaeretic“ places or
stars, perform the whole operation of regulating the duration
of life. Each of these inﬂuences is to be distinguished in
the mode pointed out in the chapters immediately ensuing.
@bapm XII.
The Prorogatory Places.
FIRSTLY, those places, only, are to be deemed prorogatory,
to which the. future assumption of the dominion of pros
rogation exclusively belongs. These several places are the
sign on the angle of the ascendant, from the ﬁfth degree
above the horizon, to the twenty-ﬁfth degree below it ;--the
thirty degrees in dexter sextile ,thereto, constituting the
eleventh house, called the Good Daemon;--also the thirty
degrees in dextcr quartile, forming the mid-heaven above the
earth ;-—those in dcxter trine making the ninth house, called
God ;-and lastly, those in opposition, belonging to the an- '
gle of the west. r
Secondly, among these places, the degrees which consti
tute the mid-heaven are entitled to preference, as being of a
more potent and paramount inﬂuence :--the degrees in the
ascendant are next in virtue ;--then the degrees in the ele
venth house succedent to the mid-heaven ;—then those in the
angle of the west ;——and, lastly, those in the ninth house,
which precedes the mid-heaven.
* The epithet ameretic is a term of art, adopted from the Greek,
signifying fatal, or destructive.
,hap. XML] I Proumv’s TETBABIBLOS. 131
No degrees under the earth are, in any manner, eligible
to the dominion now in question; except such only as_
.enter into light actually above the succedent, or, in other
words, with the ascendant. And any sign,although it may
be above the earth, is still incompetent to partake in‘ this
dominion, if it be inconjunct with the ascendant: hence
the sign which precedes the ascendant, and, constitutes the
twelfth house (called that of the Evil Daemon), is incomi
petent ; and not only for the above reason, but also because
it is cadent, and because the beams cast by the stars posited
therein, towards the earth, are impaired by the thick and
dark exhalations arising from the earth’s vapours, which
produce an unnatural colour and magnitude in the appear
ance of stars so posited, confusing, and in some measure
annihilating, their beams. '
Thus far with regard to the places of prorogation.
.‘ ' 65am: XIII.
The Number of Prorogators, and alsothe Part of Fortune.
AFTER due attention has been given to the instructions in
the preceding chapter, the Sun, the Moon, the Ascendant,
and the part of Fortune, are to be considered as the four
principally liable to be elected to the oﬂice of prorogator;
and their positions, together with those of such planets as
rule in the places of their positions, are to be observed.
v The part of Fortune is ascertained by computing the num
ber of degrees between the Sun and the Moon; and it 'is
placed at an equal number of degrees distant from the
ascendant, in the order of the signs. ~It is in all cases, both
by night and day, to be so computed and set down, that the
Moon may hold with it the same relation as that which the
Sun may hold with the ascendant; and it thus becomes, as
it were, a lunar horoscope or ascendant*. '
‘ ' The Latin translation, printed at Perugio in 1646, has here the
following passage in addition: “ But it must be seen which luminary
132 P'roumv’s TETRABIBLOS. [Book III.
Among the candidates for prorogation, as beforementioned,
by day the Sun is to be preferred, provided he be situated in
a prorogatory place; and, if not, the Moon; but if the
“ may follow the otherin'thc succession of the signs; for it‘ the Moon
“ should'so follow the Sun, the part of- Fortuno is also t0'be num
“ bered from the horoscope or ascendant, according to the succession
“ of the signs. But if the Moon precede the Sun, the part of For—
“ tune must be numbered from the ascendant, contrary to the suc~
“’cession ofthe signs." ‘
There is a long dissertation on- the part of Fortune, in Cooper’s
Placidns, from pp: 808 to 318; and, among. the directions there given
for computing its situation, the following seem themost accurate
and simple: viz. “ In the diurnal geniture, the Sun’s true distance
“ from the cast is to be added to the Moon's right ascension, and in
“ the nocturnal, subtracted; for the number thence arising will' be
“ the place and right ascension of the part of Fortune : and it‘always
“ has the same declination with the Moon, both in number and
“ name, wherever it is feund; Again, let the Sun’s oblique ascen
“’slon, taken in tho-ascendant, be subtracted always from the oblique
“ ascension of the ascendant,“ well in the day as in the- night, and
“ the remaining diﬂ'erence be added to the Moon's right ascension;
‘3 the sum will be the right ascension of the part of Fortune, which
“ will have the Moon's declination.” It is shewn also by this disser
tation, that the‘ situation of the part of Fortune'th be necessarily
conﬁned to the lunar parallels; that'it can but' rarely be in the
ecliptic; and‘that its latitude is over varying. Cooper also odds,
from Cardan's Commentaries on the Tctrabiblos, that- “ if the Moon
“ is going from the conjunction to the opposi 'on oflhe Sun, then the
“'Moon follows the Sun, and the part of'Fo ' e is always'under
“ the Earth, from the ascendant; but it"th has passed the
“ opposition, she goes before the Sun, and t t of Fortune is
“ before the ascendant, and always above the earth” This remarlt
of Cardan’s is, in direct, exactly equivalent to what is stated in the
additional passage inserted in the Perugio Latin translation, and
given above.
In the Primum Mobile of Placidus (Cooper’s translatiori, p". 45'),
the following remark. and example-are given :——-“ The part ofFortune
“ is'placed according tothe Moon's distance from the Sun; and you
Chap. XIII.] PTOLEMY’S 'rnTRaanos. 133
Moon, also, should not be so situated, then that planet is to
be elected which may have most claims to dominion, in
reference to the Sun, the antecedent new Moon, and the
ascendant; that is to say, when such planet may be found
to have dominion over any one of the places where these are
situated, by at least three prerogatives, if not more; the
whole number being ﬁve. If, however, no planet should
be found so circumstancetl, the Ascendant is then to be
taken. ,
By night, the Moon is to be elected as prorogator, pro—
vided, in like manner, she should he in some prerogatory
place ;‘ and if she be not, the Sun: if he also be not in any
prorogatory place, then that planet which may have most
rights of dominion in reference to the Moon’il‘, and the an
tecedent full Moon and the part of Fortune. But, if there
be no planet claiming dominion in the mode prescribed,
the Ascendant must be taken, in cases new Moon had last
preceded the birth; but, if a full Moon, the part of For
{05161
If the two luminaries, and also some ruling planet of ap
propriate condition, should be each posited in a prorogatory
\
‘-‘ nmst observe what rays the Moon has to the Sun,>for the latter
“ ought to have the same, and with the same excess or deﬁciency,
“ as-the part of Fortune to the horoscope. As the Moon is to the
“ Sun, so is the part of Fortune to the horoscope; and as the Sun is
. “ to the horoscope, so is the Moon to the part of Fortune. So, in
“ the nativity of Charles V, the Moon applies to the ultimate sextile
“ of the Sun, but with a. deﬁciency of 7° 45' : I subtract the 7° 45'
" from 5° 34! of Scorpio, the ultimate sextiie to the horoscope, and
“ the part of Fortune is placed in 23° 9’ of Libra.-—N,B. In this nae
tivity, according [to Placidus, the Sun is in the second- bouse, in
14° 30’ of Pisces; the Moon in the ascendant, in 6° 45' of Capricorn;
the ascendant is 5° 34‘ 01 Capricorn; and the part of Fortune is in
the ninth house, in 28° 9! of Libra.
* According to her position in the scheme of the nativity.
134 PTOLEMY’S TETRABI'BLOS. _ [Book III.
~
place, then, provided one luminary may be found to occupy
some place more important and inﬂuential than the others,
that luminary must be chosen ; but should the ruling planet
occupy the stronger place, and have prerogatives of domi
nion suitable to the conditions of both luminaries, the pla
net must then be preferred to either of them*. k
@Dapt” XIV ,- . a mum-5:} “My”
. 1 . .u W15,
Number of the Modes of Prorogation. ‘
\Vunu the prorogator has been determined as above directed,
it is also necessary to take into consideration the two modes
of prorogation; one into succeeding signs, under the pro
jection of rays, as it is called; and, when the prorogator
may be in an oriental place, that is to say, in any place
between the mid-heaven and the ascendant, this mode only
is to be used. _The other mode extends into signs preceding
the prorogator, according to what is called horary propor- '
tion'r; and, in cases when the prorogath may be situated
in any place receding from the mid-heaven, or, in other
words, between the mid-heaven and the angle of the west,
both modes of prorogation are to be adopted.
It is next to be observed, that certain degrees are anaeretic;
* Placidus, in remarking on the nativity of John di Colonna, after
stating his opinion that it is an error to suppose that a malign inﬂu
ence to the horoscope (when the horoscope has not the primary sig
niﬁcation of life) is anaeretic, says, that “the order and method which
“ Ptolemy lays down for the election of a prorogator are quite ab
“ surd, unless life be at the disposal ofa sole prime signiﬁcator only.”
He proves by other arguments also, and by instances of the fact, that
“ one only signiﬁes life, elected according to Ptolemy’s method."
(Cooper’s translation, p. 184.)
1- “ Horary proportrbn.” So the Perugio Latin of 1646; the Greek
word, however, is appear, which seems to be compounded of up
and hue; and, it' so, the literal signiﬁcation would be “ extraction
“ of hours."
Clmp. XIV.] ProtnMY’s 'ra'raamuos. 135
though, in the prorogation made into signs preceding, the
only degree which is strictly anaeretic is that of the western
horizon ;—and it becomes so because it obscures the lord of
life ;—-while other degrees, of stars meeting with or testifying
to the prorogator, both take away from and add to the ag
gregate amount of the prorogation, which would otherwise
‘ continue until the descension or setting of the prorogator.
i \, "Of these last-mentioned degrees, however, there are none
iproperly anaeretic; since they are not borne to the prom
gatory place, but, on the contrary, that place is carried to
their positions*. In this manner the beneﬁcs increase the
prorogation, but the maleﬁcs diminish it; and Mercury
assists the inﬂuence of either party with which he may be
conﬁgurated. The amount of the increase or diminution
is indicated by the degree, in which‘each star, so operating,
is exactly situated; for the number of years will depend
* By the apparent motion of the planetary system. On this pas
sage, Placidus has the following observations: “ In directing the sig
“ niﬁcator to the west, you must consider what stars or mundane
“ rays are intercepted between the signiﬁcator and the west; if for
“ tunate, add their are to the signiﬁcator’s are of direction to the
“ west; if unfortunate, subtract it from the same, and it will give
“ the arc of direction, augmented or diminished according to Ptole
“ my.——How largely and ditferently authors have spoken of this
“ direction of the signiﬁcator to the west, putting various construc
“ tions on the words of Ptolemy, is known to every one. See Car
“ dan in his Commentaries, Maginns in Prim. Mob. and the Use of
“ Legal Astrology in Physic, 0. viii, where he delivers the sentiments
“ of Naibod. Argo] oensures wholly this doctrine of Ptolemy’s, of
“ directing the moderator of life to the west, as vain and useless;
" but I say it is worthy of remark, and altogether conformable to
“ truth; because then the rays and intermediate stars of the malign
“ only lessen the are of direction to the west, and do, not destroy
“ life, when, by a right direction, the moderator of life does not re
“ main at the same time with the malignant planet: for, should this
“ happen, they kill, without any manner of doubt.” (Cooper‘s trans
lation, pp. 106 and 108.)
l36 ' mommy’s TETRABIBLOS. [Book III.
upon, and correspond with, the horary timers“ proper to
each degree; and if the birth be by day, care must be taken
to calculate the diurnal horary times; if by night, the'noc
turnal. These directions are to be understood as applicable
to instances wherein the degrees in question may be in the
ascendant ; if farther advanced, a deduction proportionate
to the distance is to be made, unless they should be on the
occidental horizon, in which case there can be no remainder.
But, in the prorogation made into succeeding signs, the
places of the maleﬁcs, Saturn and Mars, are anaeretic, whe
ther meeting the prorogator bodily, or by emission of rays
in quartile, from either side, or in opposition : they are also
sometimes ameretic, by a sextile ray, if in a sign of equal
power, obeying or beholding the sign of the prorogator.
And even the mere degree, in signs following, in quar
tile with the prorogatory place, as also the degree in sextile,
if badly amicted, which is sometimes the case in signs of
long ascension, and, still further, the degree in trine, if in
signs of short ascension, are allauaeretic: so also is the
Sun’s place, should the Moon be prorogatory. ‘But, ale
though the meetings, which occur in the course of proroga
tion thus made, have, respectively, some of them an anaeretic,
and others a preservative, power, in consequence of their
occurring by means of an actual transmission to the pro
rogatory place? 3 yet their anaeretic tendency is not always
eﬂ’ectual, but only in cases where the places, so brought to
the prorogatory place, may be badly afﬂicted. For should
those places be situated within the terms of a beneﬁc, the
operation of their anaeretic degree becomes impeded ; and it
will likewise be impeded, if either of the beneﬁcs should cast
' “ Henry timer.” These are the number of equatorial degrees
which any deg-roe of the zodiac may appear, in a certain latitude on
the earth, to tmnsit in an equatorial hour. '
T By the apparent motion ofthe planetary sys'lmn.
Chap. XIV.]’ ProLnMv's TETRMHBLQS. 137
a ray in quartile, trine, 0r opposition*, to the said anaeretic
degree itself, or to some other degree hear in succession, and
not farther distant from it than tWeIVe degrees, if the beneﬁc
he Jupiter; nor than eight, if Venus: the like impediment
will also subsist, if both the prorogator and its opponent‘l
should be bodiesI, and not havethe same latitude.
Therefore, whenever there may be found two or more
conﬂicting conﬁgurations, auxiliary on the one hand, and
hostile on the other, due observation must he made to as-'
certain which party surpasSes the other, in power as well as
in number. The pre-eminenc'e in number will he, of course,
obvious, from the greater number§ on one side than on the
other; but, for 'pre-erninence in power, it must be seen whe
ther the stars, auxiliary or hostile as the case may be, are, on
the one side, in places appropriate to themselves, while they
are not so on the other ; and especially whether those on thé
.0ne side may be oriental, and those on the other occidental.
It is also to be observed, in all cases, that not any one o’fsuch'
stars, whether hostile or auxiliary, is to be left out of the'
present calculatiOn, on account of its casual Position under
I.
"' In reference to this passage, Placidus, in speaking of the death
ofOctavian Vestrius ofRome, has theSe words: “ the Moon is found.
“ in a parallel declination of Mars, and Saturn with the opposition of
“ Mars; the sextile of Jupiter to the Sun could give no assistance,
“ because Jupiter is cadent, and the ray Sextiie is very weak, espe
“ daily when it is the principal ray: for which reason, Ptolemy, in the
“ chapter of Life, when he mentions the planets that are slate to save'
“ in the occourses of the infortunes. does not name the studio, but
“ the quartile, trine, and opposition; because the @5465 ray is feeble“,
“ particularly when‘it is less than 60°: neither could Venus assist, as:
“ she was cadent from the house‘, and in a sign ininiica] to the Sini,"
8w. (Cooper's Translation, p. 286.)
-|- Literally, and perhaps more' properly, “its rn'eeter."
I That is to say, orbs, in contradistinction to' prorogations' riiad'e liy
‘ aspects or degrees merely.
§ Of the stars and places brought into conﬁguration.
' T
138 PTOLEMY'S~TETRABIBLOS. [Book III.
the sun-beams'l‘. This rule must be particularly attended
to, because, even though the Moon be not prorogatory, the
solar place itself becomes anaeretic, if shackled by the simul—
taneous presence ofa maleﬁc, and not restored to freedom of
operation by any beneﬁc.
The number of years, depending on the distances between
the prorogatory and anaeretic places, cannot be always ga
thered simply- and at once from the ascensional tirnes'lv of
each respective degree; but~only in cases when the ascend
ant itself, or some other speciﬁc degree or body, actually
ascending in the oriental horizon, may possess the proroga
tion. For, if it be desired to calculate agreeably to nature,
every process of calculation that can be adopted must be di
rected to the attainment of _one object; that is to say, to
ascertain after how many equatorial timesi the place of the
succeeding body, or degree, will arrive at the position pre
occupied at the birth by the preceding body, or degree: and,
as equatorial time transits equally both the horizon and the ‘
meridian, the places in question§ must be considered, in
respect of their proportionate distances from both these;
each equatorial degree" being taken to signify one solar
year.
In conformity with the foregoing remarks, when it may
‘* Whalley’s translation of this passage is in direct contradiction to
the sense: and even that of Allatius, as well as other Latin ones, are
(if strictly correct) confused in their meaning. ,
'l- “Ascensional times.” These are, in other words, the number of
degrees of the equator, equivalent to a certain number ofzodiacal
degrees, ascending in any particular latitude. They are also other
wise called the oblique ascension of such zodiacal degrees.
I “ Equatorial times” here signify degrees of the equator, by which
all time is measured.
5 That is to say, of the preceding and of the succeeding body or
degree.
|| Which may be intercepted in the are between them.
' Chap. XIV.] PTOLEMY’S TETRABIBLOS. 139
happen that the prorogatory and preceding place may be
actually on the oriental horizon, it will be proper to reckon,
at once, the ascensional times which may intervene until the
meeting of the degrees; because, after the same number of
equatorial times, the antereta will arrive at the prorogatory
place ; that is to say, at the oriental horizon. Should the
prorogatory place be found on the meridian, the whole num
ber of degrees by right ascension, in which the whole inter
cepted are will transit ,the meridian, mustthen be taken.
And if the prorogatory place be on the occidental horizon,
the number of descensions, in which every degree of the
distance will be carried-doWn, (or, in other words, the num
ber of ascensions, in which their opposite degrees will
ascend), is in that case to be reckoned*. '
_ When, however, a prorogatory and preceding place may
not be situated on any one of the three aforesaid points, but
in some intermediate station, it must be observed that other
times'i~ will then bring the succeeding place to the preceding
one ; and not the times of ascension or descension, or transit
of the mid-heaven, as above spoken of. For any places
whatever, which have one particular position, on the same
degree, in regard to the horizon and meridian, are alike and
identical. This is the case, for instance, with all places
lying on any one of those semicircles which are drawn
through the arcs of the meridian and horizon; and each of
these semicircles (all of which have position at the same
equal distance from each other) marks one temporal hourI ;
"' This number is that of the oblique descensional times of the in
tercepted are, or of the oblique ascensional times of the are opposite
to it.—The whole of the instructions in this paragraph are fully exem
pliﬁed in the following Chapter.
1- Or, times to be reckoned in another manner. >
I On this passage, there has been founded, (to use Whalley’s words)
“ what we call Mundane Parallels, or parallels in the world. And,
“ as zodiacal parallels are equal distances from the tropical or equi
1.40 mommy’s 'nr'rnltuiunos. [Book III.
and,ias the time occupied in proceeding through the placesi‘
above described, and arriving at- the same position of the
horizon and meridian, is rendered unequal to and different
from the time of transits in the zodiac ; so, also, the transits
of other spaces are made, agreeably to their position, in time
again distinct from this.
There is, however, a method by which the proportion of
time, occupied in the progress of asucceeding place to a
prorogatory and preceding place, in whatever position, whet
ther oriental, meridianal, or occidental, or any other, may- be
easily calculated. It is as follows 2-— '
When it. has been ascertainedwhat degree of the zodiac
is op the mid-heaven, as also which are the preceding and
“ noctial circles, so mundane parallels no a like, equal distance from
“ the horizontal or meridian'al points or circles. And as ZOdeQ/a-l»
“ parallels are measured by the zodiacal circle, so. those mundane par.
“ rallels are measured by the diurnal or nocturnal arcs: and just so
“ long as the Sun or any other planet is, in proceeding from the cusp
“ ofahe twelfth House to the cusp of the tenth, the some Sun or other
“ planet will bein proceeding from the cuspofthe tenth to the cusp of
“ the eighth House. And the. distance between Sun-rising and
“ setting, is the diurnal arc which the meridian cuts in two, equal
“ parts. In directions, these mundane parallels have a. twofold con
“ sideration : ﬁrst, simple; secondly, according to the rapt m0
“ tionof'the earth, or the primum mobile : all which have beenlargely
“explained by; the learned Monk, Pdaoidus,” 810. That Author-has
certainly stated, in one of his Theses, that “ those seats, or parts. of
“ the circle, are to be received, in which the st_ars,phaving a diﬂ‘erent
“declination, elfect equal temporal hours,"(p. 22,Cooper’s Translation.)
and he has fully exempliﬁed this principle in other parts of his “ Pri
mumMobilei' hut Ptolemy here speaks only of one oﬁthe semicircles
between the horizon and metzidian,witliout reference to any'other semi
circle, corresponding in distance from» the horizon and mid-heaven ;'
and all that he has said on the subject amounts only to this, that the
prorogation is completed when the succeeding place arrives at the
samev semicircle on which the preceding place had been posited.
* Tlicasccndant, mid~heaven, and western horizon; as mentioned
inthe preceding paragrapli._ '
Chap. XIVJ Proremr’s TETRABIBLOS. 141
I
succeeding degrees, the period of whose meeting is to be
calculated, the position of the preceding degree, and its
distance in temporal hours from the meridian, are next to
be noted ; because any part of the zodiac, on becoming dist;
ant ‘from the meridian in the same temporal hours, must fall
on the same individual semicircle“. For ascertaining this
distance, the number of ascensions, in a right sphere, found;v
in the intermediate spacc‘hetween the said preceding degree
and the mid-heaven, either above or under the earth, is to
be divided the number of the diurnal or nocturnal» horary
' times of the said preceding degree : for instance, if that
degree be above the earth, by its diurnal horary times'; and,
by its nocturnal, if it be under the earth. It is then to be
discovered in what number of equatorial times the succeed
ing degree will be distant from the same meridian, by as
many similar temporal hours as those by which the precede
ing degree is distant from it. And, to effect this, the. hours
in question must be noted', and it must ﬁrst-he observed, by
the right ascensions again, how many equatorial times the:
succeeding degree, at its original position, is distant from
the degree on the mid-heaven; and then it must be seen'
how many equatorial times it will be distant, on coming
tothe preceding degree's distance in- temporal hours from the
said. mid-heaven: this. will be found, by multiplying those
'hours by- the succeeding degree’s horary times; diurnal, if
the future position be above the earth, and nocturnal if un
der ;, and thediﬂ'erence in amount, of these two distances,
in equatorial times, will present the‘ number of years inquir
ed for.
whom: XV.
Ememplt'ﬁcation. I
In order toexemplify the foregoing instructions, let the-ﬁrst,
point of Aries be supposed as the preceding place, smith,
*' Vide Note t, pp. 189, 140.
142 PTOLEMY’S TETRABIBLOS. - [Book III.
ﬁrst point of Gemini the succeeding; and let the latitude of
the country, to which the operation relates, be such as will
cause the longest day to consist of fourteen hours" ; and
where the horary magnitude of the beginning of Geminiv
will be about seventeen equatorial times-r.
Let the ﬁrst point of Aries be ﬁrst placed on the ascend
ant, so that the beginning of Capricorn may be on the mid
heaven above the earth, and the ﬁrst point of Gemini be
distant from the said mid-heaven 148 equatorial times'I.
Now, since the ﬁrst point of Aries is distant six temporal
hours from the mid-heaven above the earth, the times of
that distance will be found, by multiplying the said six hours
by the seventeen equatorial times of the horary magnitude of
the ﬁrst point of Gemini, to be 102§. The whole sum' of
the distance to the mid-heaven above the earth, is 148 times ;
and as 148 times exceed 102 by 46, the succeeding place will
consequently devolve into the preceding place after 46 times;
(being the amount of the said excess, and also, as near as
possible, the amount of the times of ascension of Aries and
Taurus"), since, in this instance, the prorogatory place is
established in the ascentlant.
" This, in the Northern Hemisphere, would be the latitude of Alex
andria, (where Ptolemy ﬂourished) or, in his own words, that of the
8d Climate, passing through Lower Egypt, numbered 30° 22’.— Vide
extracts from the Tables of the Almagest, inserted in the Appendix.
1- This is themagnitude of the diurnal temporal hour of the ﬁrst
point of Gemini in the latitude prescribed.
I By right ascension, as shewn by the Extract, inserted in the Ap
pendix, from the Table of Ascensions in the Almagest. The exact
distance, howeVer, according to that Table, is 147° 44’.
§ Or rather, aecotding to the Table, 102° 39.
I] That is to say, olgrtheir oblique ascension, which is here required
to be reckoned; bedik‘ice the prorogatory and preceding place is in
the ascendant. Vide _. 139, and Note ’r in p. 188.——And the ﬁrst
point of Geinini, on arriving at the ascendant, will be distant from
the mid-heaven 102° 89' by right ascension; the 18th degree of
Aquarius being then in culmination in the prescribed latitude. The
Chap. XV.] P'roLnMY’s TETRABIBLOS. 143
. In like manner, let the ﬁrst point of Aries be next placed
on the mid-heaven, culminating ; so that the ﬁrst point of
Gemini, in its ﬁrst position, may be distant from the said
mid-heaven 58 equatorial times*. Now, as it is required to
bring the ﬁrst point of Gemini, in its second position, to the
mid-heaven, the whole distance is to be reckoned, viz. 58
times, in which Aries and Taurus pass the mid-heaven;
‘ because, again, the prorogatory place was culminating'r.
vIn the same way, let the ﬁrst point of Aries be descend
ingI ; so that the beginning of cancer may occupy,the mid
heaven, and the ﬁrst point of Gemini precede the mid
heaven at the distance of 32 equatorial times§. There
fore, as the ﬁrst point of Aries is 'on the west, and again
distant six temporal hours from the meridian, let these six
hours be multiplied by the seventeen times; which will pro.
duce 102, making the sum of the distance“ of the ﬁrst point
of Gemini, at its future descension from the meridianﬁl.
But, as the ﬁrst point of Gemini, at its ﬁrst position, was
- already distant from the meridian 32 times ; which number
102 exceed by 70; it will consequently arrive at its de
scension after 70 times, the amount of the excess; in which
space Aries and Taurus will have descended, and their op
posite signs Libra and Scorpio arisen**.
oblique ascensions in the latitude 30°- 22’ N. are also shewn in
the extract referred to in the preceding note: and it thereby appears,
that Aries and Taurus ascend in 45° 5’, instead of 46°.
“' Or rather, 57° 44' —by right ascension.—--Vidc extract above
referred to.
‘j‘ Vide p. 139.
1 Or on the cusp ofthe 1th House.
§ Or, rather, 32° 16'-—by right ascension again-—Vide extract as
before. ‘
It By right ascension—The amount according to the Table is,
however, 102° 39’, as before stated. _
1i On which the 10th degree of Virgo will then be posited. \
" By oblique descension and ascension: vide p. 189.~‘-The Tablet
shews the amount to be 70° 23'.
144 V mommy’s TETRA‘BIBLOS. [Book III.
Again, let the ﬁrst point of Aries have another position,
not in any angle", but, for instance, at the distance of
three temporal hours past the meridian; so that the 18th
degree of Taurus may be on the mid-heaven, and the ﬁrst
point of Gemini be approaching the mid-heaven, at the
distance of thirteen equatorial times. The seventeen times
must, therefore, be again multiplied by the three hours, and
the ﬁrst point of Gemini, at its second position, will be
found to be past the meridian, at the distance of 51 times-In
The distances of 13 times of the ﬁrst position and 51 times
of the second position are then both to be taken; and they
will produce 64 times. In the former instances the prom
gatory place' performed in the same succession ; viz. occu
pying 46 times in coming to the ascendant, 58 in coming
to the mid-heaven, and 70 in coming to the west; so that
the present number of times, depending on the intermediate
position between the mid-heaven and the west, and being
64, also differs from each of the other numbers, in propor
tion to the three hours difference of position. For, in the
other cases which proceeded by quadrantsi, according to the
angles, the times progressively differed by twelve, but, in the
present case of a minor distance of three hours, they differ
by six§. i
There is, however, another method which may be used,
and which is still more simple; for instance, should the
preceding degree he on the ascendant, the following inter
* In reference to p. 139, and note 1 in the same page.
1- The 18th degree of Cancer being then in culmination.
I Or semi-diurnal arcs, each equal to six temporal hours.
§The amount of the progressive ditferenoe of the times of promo
gation, as here mentioned, is of course only applicable to the parailel
of declination of the ﬁrst point of Gemini, in the" latitude before
qnoted. It must necessarily vary in all other parallels of declination,
and also in all other latitudes.
Chap. XV.] P'roLEMY’s TETRABIBLOS. 145
/
mediate times of ascensionﬁ between it and the succeeding
degree, may be reckoned; should it be on the mid-heaven,
the times of ascension must be reckoned on a right sphere;
and, if it be on the west, descending, the intermediate times
of descensionf are to be reckoned. But, should the pre
ceding degree be between any two of these angles, as, for
instance, at the distance of Aries, just spoken of, the pro
per times for each angle must ﬁrst be considered. And,
since the ﬁrst point of Aries was assigned a position between
the two angles of the mid-heaven and the west, the proper
times of the distances from these angles to the ﬁrst point of
Geminijj would be found to be '58 from the mid-heaven,
and 70 from the west. The distances, in temporal hours,
of the preceding degree from each of these angles, are then
to be ascertained; and whatever proportion these same tem
poral hours, contained in such distances between the said
preceding degree and each angle, may bear to the temporal
hours of the whole quadrant, the same proportion, out of the
excess of the times of distance of one angle over those of
the other, is either to be added to, or deducted from, the
actual number of times of the respective angles. For in
stance, in the example before set forth, 70 times exceed 58
times by 12; and the preceding place was distant from the
angles three equal temporal hours, which are the half of six,
the number belonging to the whole quadrant. Now, thrﬁe
being the half of six, and 12 being the amount of the
excess, the half of 12 is therefore to be taken, giving 6 to
be either added to the 58 times, or subtracted from the 70:
* Oblique ascension.
1' The times ofoblique descension of any are of the zodiac are equal
to the times of oblique ascension of its opposite are; as before ex
plained. ‘
1 That is to say, at the time ofthe 1st point of Aries transiting the
cusp of each angle respectively.
U
146 PTOLEMY’S TETRABIBLOS. [Book III.
thus, in either way, producing 64, the required number of
times.
If, however, the preceding place should be distant from
either angle two temporal hours, which are the third part of
six, then, in that case, the third part of 12, the amount of
the excess, must be taken, viz. 4 : and, if the said two hours
he the distance, as calculated from the mid-heaven, the
said 4 times are to be added to the 58 times; but, if it be
the distance from the occidental angle, the 4 times are to be
subtracted from the 70.
In conformity with these rules now laid down, the amount
of the times must necessarily be obtained*.
The anaeretic and critical inﬂuences of all meetings or
* The calculation of time may be greatly facilitated by the use of a
zodiacal planisphere, said to have been invented about thirty years
ago by Mr. Ranger, who died without making his invention public.
The invention consists of a set of instruments perfectly adapted, as
far as relates to the zodiac, for astronomical, as well as astrological,
purposes; and the completeness with which it solves, in the most
intelligible and expeditious manner, all the astronomical problems
of the zodiac, deserves attention. Whether a similar planisphere was
known in the days of Placidus, I am not aware; but it is worthy of
remark that the following words occur in his “ Primum Mobile,” and
seem almost to have been predicated of Mr. Ranger’s planisphere :—
“ If any one would provide himself with a Ptolemaic planisphere, with
“ the horary circles, crepuscules, the zodiac’s latitude, and all other
“ things requisite, it would be of very great service towards foreseeing
“ the aspects.” (Cooper’s Translation, p. 81.) In the Appendix will
be found a plate, containing diagrams drawn by the instruments in
question, which, though not completely ﬁlled up, will shew how easily,
and, at the same time, how accurately, the measure of time in di
rections may be ascertained. The said diagrams have been adapted
to the “ exempliﬁcation” here given by Ptolemy; one of them being
laid down for the latitude of Alexandria, and the other for the lati
tude of southern Britain (51° 30’ N.), with similar positions of the
preceding and succeeding places adverted to in the text.
Chap. xv.] P'rousmv’s TETRABIBLOS. 147
descensions of prorogators“ remain to be determined; be
ginning, in due order, with such as are accomplished in the
shortest time. And whatever else may happen, by means
of any aﬂliction. or assistance offered (in the manner hereto
fore prescribed) during the actual transit of the meeting, is
also to be decided on, as well as whatever may occur through
other circumstances, arising out of the ingresses taking place
at the time : because, should the places of both the signiﬁ
cators be afﬂicted, and should the transit of the stars, at the
then existing ingress, operate injuriously on the chief ruling
places, it is then altogether probable that death will ensuet;
and, even though one of the placesI may be disposed fa
vourably to human nature, the crisis will still be important
and perilous; but, if both the places be so disposed favour
ably, some debility only, or transient malady, or hurt, will
then happen. It is, however, necessary in these cases, to
consider also what familiarity, or analogy, the peculiar pro
perties of the places, thus meeting, may bear to the circum~
stances of the nativity. .
In order to obviate the doubts which frequently arise, as
to the particular star or place to which the anaeretic domi
nion ought to be assigned, all the meetings should be duly
contemplated and considered, each by each ; and thus, after
considering those chieﬂy corresponding with the events
" These meetings and dcscensions are technically termed “ direc
“ tions.”
1- On these words Placidus has the following remark: “ The l'evos
“ lutions may pOSsess some virtue, but only according to the consti-.
“ tution of the stars to the places of the prorogators of the nativity,
“ and their places of direction, but no farther; as Ptolemy was of
“ opinion, and brieﬂy expresses himself in his Chapter of Life.
“ ‘ Those who are aﬂlicted, both in the places and conclusions of the
“ ‘ years, by the reVolution of the stars infecting the principal places,
“ ‘ have reason to expect certain death.” (p. 127, Cooper’s Transl.)
t Of the signiﬁcators beforcmentioned.
I48 PTOLEMY’S TETRABIBLOS. [Book III.
already past, and with the future events about to follow, or
with the whole together, it will be practicable to found an
observation on the equality or inequality of their inﬂuence.
@Ihapttr XVI.
The Form and Temperament of the Body.
THE matters affecting and regulating the duration of life
have now been disposed of ; and it becomes proper to enter
into further particulars, commencing, in due order, with the
ﬁgure and conformation of the body; because Nature forms
and moulds the body before she inspires it with a soul. In
fact, the body, in its materiality, is endowed with suitable
constitutional properties begotten with it, and almost appa—
rent from its very birth; but the soul afterwards, and by
degrees, developes the appropriate qualities which it derives
from the primary cause, and which become known much
later than external attributes, and in process of time only.
In regard to the body, therefore, it is in all cases requisite
to observe the oriental horizcn, and to ascertain what planets
may preside or have dominion over it, and also to pay par
ticular attention to the Moon. For, from both these places“,
and from their rulers, as well as from the natural formation
and contemperament appertaining to every species of the
human race, and also from the ﬁgure ascribed to those ﬁxed
stars which may be co-ascending, the conformation of the
body is to be inferred. The planets possessing dominion
have the chief inﬂuence, and the proper qualities of their
places co-operate with them. And, in order to simplify
these instructions, and as the planets are ﬁrst to be treated
of, each planet is individually to be considered as follows :
vrz.
5' That of the ascendant, and that of the Moon.
Chap. XVI.] PTOLEMY’S rsrasmsms. 149
Saturn, when oriental, acts on the personal ﬁgure by pro
dUcing a yellowish complexion and a good constitution;
with black and curled hair, a broad and stout chest, eyes of
ordinary quality, and a proportionate size of body, the tem
perament of which is compounded principally of moisture
and cold. Should he be occidental, he makes the personal
ﬁgure black or dark, thin and small, with scanty hair on the
head; the body without hair, but well shaped; the eyes
black or dark ; and the bodily temperament consisting chieﬂy
of dryness and cold.
Jupiter ruling, when oriental, makes the person white or
fair, with a clear complexion, moderate growth of hair, and
large eyes, and of good and digniﬁed stature; the tempera
ment being chieﬂy of heat and moisture. When occidental,
he still causes a fair complexion, but not of equal clearness;
and he produces long straight hair, with baldness on the
forehead or on the crown of the head; andhe then also
gives a middle stature to the body, with a temperament of
more moisture.
Mars, ascending, gives a fair ruddiness to the person,
with large size, a healthy constitution, blue or grey eyes, a
sturdy ﬁgure, and a moderate growth of hair, with a tem
perament principally of heat and dryness. When occidental,
he makes the complexion simply ruddy, and the personal
ﬁgure of moderate stature, with small eyes ; the body with
out hair, and the hair of the head light or red, and straight;
the bodily temperament being chieﬂy dry.
Venus operates in a manner similar to that of Jupiter,
but, at the same time, more becomingly and more gracefully;
producing qualities of a nattp'e more applicable to women
and female beauty, such as softness, juiciness, and greater
delicacy. She also peculiarly makes the eyes beautiful, and
renders them of an azure tint. _
Mercury, when oriental, makes the personal ﬁgure of a
yellowish complexion, and of stature proportionate and well
150 P'roLEMY’s Tn'raaamms. [Book III.
shaped, with small eyes and a moderate growth of hair; and
the bodily temperament is chieﬂy hot. If occidental, he
gives a complexion white or fair, but not altogether clear ;
straight, dark hair, a thin and slight ﬁgure, some squint or
defect in the eyes, and a long visage“ faintly red ; the tem
perament being chieﬂy dry.
The Sun and Moon, when conﬁgurated with any one of
the planets, also co-operate: the Sun adds a greater noble
ness to the ﬁgure, and increases the healthiness of the con
stitution; and the Moon, especially when holding or delay
ing her separation’r, generally contributes better proportion
and greater delicacy of ﬁgure, and greater moisture of tem
perament ; but, at the same time, her inﬂuence in this latter
particular is adapted to the proper ratio of her illumination;
as referred to in the modes of temperament mentioned in
the beginning of this treatiseI.
'Again, should the planets be matutine, and fully con
spicuous§, they will cause the body to be large ; if in their
ﬁrst station, they will make it strong and vigorous; if they
should precede or be in advance, it will be disproportionate ;
if in their second station, it will be weaker, and, if vesper
tine, altogether mean and subservient to evil treatment and
oppression. At the same time, the places of the planets||,>as
has been already said, co-operate especially in producing the
shape of the personal ﬁgure, and contribute also towards the
temperament.
‘ The original word is (in the aceusative plural) “yo-rm, which
Allatius has rendered, by “pedibus caprinis,” goalfooted, as ifit Were
compounded of ME capra and mu: pes; but the preferable derivation
seems to be from mi and a4, vultk; meaning “ goat-ﬁxed."
1- From any one of the said planets.
IVide Chap. 8, Book 1.
§The Greek is crampmt pan“; literally “ making apparition ;" but
the subsequent context seems to require the meaning I have adopted.
\l The parts of the signs in which the planets are posited.
C'hap. XVI.] PTOLEMY’S TETRABI-BLOS. 151
And further, it is the general tendency of the quadrant
comprised between the vernal equinox and the summer tro
pic to produce good complexions, advantageous stature, ﬁne
censtitutions, and ﬁne eyes ; with a temperament abounding
in heat and moisture. The quadrant from the summer tro
pic to the autumnal equinox tends to produce an ordinary
complexion, proportionate stature, a healthy constitution,
large eyes, a stout person, with curled hair, and a tempera
ment abounding in heat and dryness. The quadrant from
the autumnal equinox to the winter tropic causes yellowish
complexions, slender, thin, and sickly persons, with a moder
ate growth of hair, ﬁne eyes, and a temperament abundantly
dry and cold. The other quadrant, from the winter tropic to
the vernal equinox, gives a dark complexion, proper stature,
straight hair on the head and not any on the body, a goodly
ﬁgure, and a temperament abounding in cold and moisture.
To speak, however, more particularly, all constellations of
human'form, both those within and those without the zo
diac, act in favour of giving a handsome shape to the body,‘
and due proportion to the ﬁgure : while those not of human
form vary its due proportions, and incline it towards their
own shape; assimilating it, in some measure, to their own
peculiarities, either by enlarging or diminishing its size, by
giving it additional strength or weakness, or by otherwise
improving or disﬁguring it. Thus, for example, Leo, Virgo,
and Sagittarius, enlarge the person ;' and Pisces, Cancer, and
Capricorn, tend to make it diminutive ; and thus, again, the
upper and anterior parts of Aries, Taurus, and Leo, increase
its strength, and their lower and posterior parts render it
weaker: while, on the other hand, Sagittarius, Scorpio, and
Gemini, act conversely ; for their anterior parts produce
greater debility, and their posterior parts greater vigour. In
like manner, Virgo, Libra, and Sagittarius, contribute to
render the person handsome and well-proportioned ; and
152 PToLEMY’s TETRABIBLOS. [Book III.
Scorpio, Pisces, and Taurus, incline it to be mis-shapen and
disﬁgured. .
The other e0nstellations* also operate on similar princi
ples; and all these inﬂuences it is necessary to bear in mind,
in order that the peculiar properties, observed in their joint
temperament, may be so compounded as to authorise an in
ference therefrom, concerning the form and temperament of
the body.
ﬂbaptzr XVII.
The Hurts, Injuries, and Diseases of the Body.
NEXT in succession to the foregoing chapter, the circum- .
stances relating to bodily hurts, injuries, and diseases, claim
to be discussed; and they require to be considered in the
following mode.
For the investigation of these circumstances, the two an
gles on the horizon, both the ascendant and the western,
must in all cases be remarked; but more especially the
western angle and its preceding housef, which is inconjunct
with the ascendant. After these angles have been noted, it
must be observed in what manner the maleﬁc planets may be
conﬁgurated with them: for, if both the maleﬁcs, or even
if one of them, should be stationed bodily on any of the suc
cessive degrees composing the said angles, or be conﬁgurated
with such degrees in quartile or in opposition, some bodily
disorders or injuries will attach to the native or person then
born : and this'will‘especially happen, if, also, both the lu
minaries, either together or in opposition, or even if one of
them, should be angularly posited in the manner described.
Because, in such a case, not only a malefic which may have
* For the operative qualities of the other constellations, vide Chap
ters 10 and 11, Book 1.
T The sixth house.
Ghap. XVII.] noLlMY's mmamsms. 153
ascended in succession to the luminaries, but also any one
which may have pre-ascended, if placed in an angle, has
power to inﬂict certain diseases and injuries, such as may be
indicated by the places of the horizon and of the signs, as
well as by the natures of the planets themselves; whether
maleﬁcs, or others evilly afﬂicted and conﬁgurated with
them.
Such parts of the signs, as contain the afﬂicted part of
the horizon, will shew in what part of the body the misfor
tune will exist, whether it be a hurt, or disease, or both:
and the natures of the planets, in operating the misfortune,
also regulate its particular form or species. For, among the
chief parts of the human body, Shturn rules the right car,
the spleen, the bladder, the phlegm, and the bones ;'_ Jupiter
governs the hand, the lungs, the arteries, and the seed;
Mars, the left ear, the kidnies, the veins, and the privities ;
the Sun rules the eyes, the brain, the heart, the sinews or
nerves, and all the right side; Venus, the nostrils, the liver,
and the ﬂesh ; Mercury, the speech, the understanding, the
bile, the tongue, and the fundament; and the Moon go
verns the palate, the throat, the stomach, the belly, the
womb, and all the left parts. i
It generally happens that some casual hurt, or injurious
affection of the body, is the utmost that takes effect when
the maleﬁcs may be oriental, and that considerable diseases
occur only when the maleﬁcs may be occidental. And a
hurt is distinct from a disease, inasmuch as the pain, which
it induces at the time, is not afterwards continued ; while a
disease is, on the other hand, imposed on the sufferer either
constantly or at repeated intervals. These remarks are ap
plicable .to all cases; but, in order to inquire particularly
into the nature of the hurt or disease, a further attention
must be paid to the ﬁgures, or schemes, with which the
eﬂ'ects, about to be produced, will for the most part corre
spond in character.
it
154 PTOLEMY’S TBTRABIBLOS. [Book III. ‘
For instance, bl-indness of one eye Will ensue, when the
Moon may be in the before-mentioned angles, either oper
ating hereonjunction, or being at the full : it will also hap
pen should she be conﬁgurated with the Sun in any other
proportional aspect, and be at the same time connected with
any one of the nebulous collections in the zodiac; such as
the cloudy spot of Cancer, the Pleiades of Taurus, the
arrow~head of Sagittarius, the sting of Scorpio, the parts
about the mane of Leo, or the urn of Aquarius. Moreover,
both eyes will hev injured should the Moon be in an angle,
and. in her decrease, and Mars or Saturn, being matutine,
ascend in succession to her ; or, again, if the Sun be in an
angle, and these’planets pre-ascend before him, and be con
ﬁgurated- with both the luminaries, whether the luminaries
be in one and'the same sign, or in opposition 5 provided also
the said planets, although oriental of the Sun, be occidental
of the Moon.—Under these circumstances, therefore, Mars
will cause blindness by a stroke or blow, or by the sword
or by burning; and, if he be conﬁgurated with Mercury, it
will be effected either in'a place of exercise or sport, or by
the assault of robbers. Saturn, however, under the same
circumstances, produces blindness by cataract, or cold, by a
white ﬁlm, or by other similar disorders.
Venus, if in one of the angles before-mentioned, and
especially if she be 'in that of the west, and Saturn be .in'
conjunction or in conﬁguration with her, or be changing
place with her*, while Mars, at the same time, is in elevation
aboveher, or in oppOsition to her, will produce impotence
in the native, ifa male; and, ~if a female, will render ,her
liable to abortion, or to produce children still-born, or not
capable of being extracted except in mangled parts.v Such
" This seems to imply, if Saturn be in one of Venus’s places-ofdig-'
nity; and Venus in one of Saturn’s. .Such a counterposition is tech-
nically termed “ mutual reception." 1
Chap. XVIIL] PTOLEMY’s 'l‘ETRABlBLOS. 15,5
misfortunes especially happen under Cancer, Virgo, ‘ and
Capricorn ; even though the Moon may be in the ascendant,
in conjunction with Mars. And if, under the same circum
stances, Venus be also conﬁgurated with \Mercury, as. well
as Saturn, Mars again being in elevation above her, or in op
position to her, the native, will be either an eunuch or her
maphrodite, or devoid of the natural channels and vents.
And, when these positions occur, should the Sun also par
take in the conﬁguration, the luminaries and; Venus being all
masculiner constituted, the Moon'in her decrease, and the
maleﬁcs brought up in the degrees next successively ascend
ing, the males will be born maimed or crippled, or in~
jured in their private members; (particularly under Aries,
Leo, Scorpio, Capricorn, and Aquarius ;) and the females
will remainchildless and unproliﬁc. . And» it also occasion
ally happens that the natives, under such a conﬁguration, are
likewise injured in the face or eyes. . _ .
If Saturn and Mercury, in conjunction with the Sun, be
in the before-mentioned angles, the native will have some
defect in the tongue, and stammer or speak with diﬁiculty:
especially if Mercury be occidental, and both he and Saturn
conﬁgurated with the Moon. Should Mars, however, be
found together with them, he will for the most part remove
the defect in the tongue, after the Moon shall have complet
ed her approach to him. -
Further, should the maleﬁcs bein angles, and the lumi
naries,,either together or in opposition, be broughtlup to
\them; or, if the maleﬁcs be brought up to the luminaries,
especially when the Moon may be in her nodes, or in her
bend*, or in obnoxious'signs, such as Aries, Taurus, Can
cer, Scorpio, and Capricorn, the body will then be afﬂicted
with excrescenees, distortions, lameness, or paralysis. ,
" In her extreme latitude, whether north or south.
156 Proumv’s TETRABIBLOS. [Book III .
If the maleﬁcs be in conjunction with the luminaries, the
calamity will take effect from the very moment of birth : but
should they be in the mid-heaven, in elevation above the
luminaries, or in opposition to each other, it will then arise
out of some great and dangerous accident; such asa fall
from some height or precipice, an attack of robbers, or of
quadrupeds. And thus, if Mars hold dominion, he will
produce the misfortune by means of ﬁre or wounds, through
quarrels, or by robbers; and if Saturn, it will be caused by
a fall, by shipwreck, or by convulsive ﬁts or spasms.
The minor bodily disorders mostly occur on the Moon’s
being posited in a tropical or equinoctial sign; and, ifin
that of the vernal equinox, these disorders usually arise from
the white leprosy ; in that of the summer tropic, from tet
ters; in that of the autumnal equinox, from leprosy; and in
that of the winter tropic, from the eruption 'of pimples,
I and similar inconveniences. .
Considerable diseases, however, take effect when the ma
leﬁcs may be conﬁgurated in the same situations as those
before presoribed, yet differing in one respect; that is to
say, being occidental of the Sun and oriental of the Moon.
In such cases, Saturn will generally produce cold in the
bowels, excessive phlegm, rheumatism, emaciation, sickli
ness, jaundice, dysentery, cough, obstruction, cholic, or
scurvy ; and, in women, besides these diseases, he produces
complaints of the womb. Mars will cause expectoration of
blood, atrabilarious attacks, pulmonary complaints, sores,
and diseases in the private parts, (which will be rendered still
more painful by surgical burning or incision,) such as ﬁs~
tula, haemorrhoids, or knots in the fundament, and also
' inﬂamed and putrifying ulcers. In women, to these cala
mities he adds abortion, excision of the foetus or its morti
ﬁcation.
And, even though these planets should notgbe properly
conﬁgurated towards the particular parts of the body, their
1
Chap. XVII.] PTOLBMY’S rsrnaninros. ‘157
qualities will still operate. Mercury also will act with them,
and contribute to the increase of the evil: thus, it“ he be in
familiarity with Saturn, he will much augment the coldness,
and promote the continuance of rheumatism, and the disturb
ance of the ﬂuids ; especially in the chest, throat, and
stomach. If in familiarity with Mars, he will tend to pro.
duce greater dryness, and will increase ulcers, abscesses, loss
of hair, scariﬁed sores, erysipelas, tetters, blackness of bile,
insanity, epilepsy*, and similar disorders.
Someof the properties, peculiar to disease, arise out of
the various character of the signs which may contain the
above~mentioned conﬁgurations in the two angles. Thus
Cancer, Capricorn, and Pisces, and, in short, all signs as
cribed to terrestrial animals and ﬁshes, appropriately cause
diseases of putridity, tetters, excoriation, scrophula, ﬁstula,
leprosy, and the like ; while Sagittarius and Gemini produce
disease by falling ﬁts and epilepsy. And if the planets hap
pen to be posited in the latter degrees of the signs containing
them, the extremities of the body will then be chieﬂy aﬂ'ect
ed by the disease or hurt; which will arise from humours
or accidents, producing leprosy, gout, or other inﬁrmities,
in the hands and feet.
Under the circumstances above detailed, the disease or
hurt will be incurable, provided there shall be not one of the
benelies in conﬁguration with the maletics which eﬂ'ect the
evil, nor with the luminaries posited in angles; and even
though the beneﬁcs may be so conﬁgurated, the misfortune
will still be incapable of remedy, if the maleﬁcs be well for
tiﬁed, and in elevation above them.
' n; tl'u; worrtw; literally, “ the holy disease," which authors have
explained to mean epilepsy. Perhaps the disease was autiently call
ed holy, because the patient, when possessed by the it, seemed to be
under the inﬂuence of some supernatural agency.
158 P'romivty’s TETRABIBLOS- [Book _III.
Should the beneﬁcs, however, hold principal situations,
and be in elevation above the obnoxious maleﬁcs, the disease
or hurt will then be moderate, and have neitherdeformity
nor disgrace attached to it; and it will sometimes be alto
gether prevented and set aside, if the beneﬁcs be oriental.
Jupiter, for instance, by means of human aid, such as wealth
or rank can command, will conceal and soothe hurts and
diseases ; and, if Mercury be joined with him, the assistance
will be further improved by the addition of skilful physicians
and good medicine. Venus, likewise, through the media
tion of deities and oracles, will cause hurts to appear in a
manner neither ungraceful nor unbecoming, and will ame
liorate diseases by medicines granted by the gods.
Lastly, should Saturn be present in the conﬁguration, the
afﬂicted persons will move abroad to shew their maladies, and
to complain; and if Mercury also be present, they will do
so for the sake of deriving support and proﬁt from the ex
hibition.
cam: XVIII.
The Quality of the Mind.
Tu]; consideration of circumstances applicable to the body
is practised under the foregoing rules. - .
Of the spiritual qualities, however, all those which are
rational and intellectual are contemplated by the situation of
Mercury; while all others, which regard the mere sensitive
faculties, and are independent of reason, are considered rather
by other luminaries of a less subtle constitution and more -
ponderous body; for instance, by the Moon and such stars
as she may be conﬁgurated with, as well by separation',
as by application.
" That is to say, in the commencement of her separation from the
aspect or conjunction ofsuch stars.
Chap. XVIIl.] P'roLEMY’s TETRABIBLOS. 159
Now the mind is liable to impulse in a multiplicity of di
rections, and theinvestigationrof them cannot be summarily
nor hastily performed, but must be conducted by means of
many various observations : for the different qualities of the
signs, containing Mercury and the Moon, or such stars as
hold any inﬂuence over those two, are well competent to
contribute towards the properties of the mind; so likewise
are the conﬁgurations made with the Sun and the angles, by
stars bearing any relation to thepoint in question; besides,
also, the peculiar nature exercised by each star in operating
upon the mental movements. _ ,
.Thus, the tropical signs generally dispose the mind to
enter much into political matters, rendering it eager to
engage in public and turbulent affairs, fond of distinction,
and busy in theology; at the same time, ingenious, acute,
inquisitive, inventive, speculative, and studious of astrology
and divination. . _ ~ _
Bicorporeal signs render the mind variable, versatile, not
easy to be understood, volatile, and unsteady; inclined to
duplicity, amorous, wily, fond of music, careless, full of
expedients, and regretful*.
Fixed signs make the mind just, uncompromising, con
stant, ﬁrm of purpose, prudent, patient, industrious, strict,
chaste, mindful of injuries, steady in pursuing its object,
contentious, desirous of honour, seditious, avaricious, and
pertinacious.
Oriental positions, and those in the ascendant, especially
if made by planets in their proper facesr, make men liberal,
frank, self-conﬁdent, brave, ingenious, unreserved, yet acute.;
Oriental stations, and positions on the mid-heaven, or cul-.
* The Greek is lunapilnnxour, which means “ penitent” or “prone
“ tdrepentance,” or “ to subsequent regret.” It is diﬂicult to convey
i‘ts precise meaning in the text.
‘ t Vitle Chapter 26, Book 1.
160 PTOLBMY'S 'rn'raaniaLos. [Book Ill.
minations, make men reflective, constant, of good memory,
ﬁrm, prudent, magnanimous, successful in pursuing their
desires, inﬂexible, powerful in intellect, strict, not easily
imposed upon, judicious, active, hostile to crime, and skil
ful in science. ‘
Precedent and occidental positions make men unsteady,
irreverent, imbecile, impatient of labour, easily impressed,
humble, doubting, wavering, boastful, and cowardly, sloth
ful, lazy, and hard to rouse. Occidental stations, and posi
tions on the lower heaven, (as well as Mercury and Venus,
when making vespertine descension by day, and rising in
the night,) will render the mind ingenious and sagacious,
but not capable of great recollection, nor very industrious ;
yet inquisitive into occult matters, such as magic and sacred
mysteries ; also studious of mechanics, and mechanical
instruments; addicted to the observation of meteors, to phi
losophy, to augury by means of birds, and to the judgement
of dreams.
Further, should the planets having dominion be in places
of their own, and in conditions suitable to their own quali
ties, the mental properties will be rendered exquisite, unim
peded, and successful : and especially if these planets rule at
the same time over both places; that is to say, be by some
mode conﬁgurated with Mercury, and hold separation from, or
application to the Moon. Should the said planets, however,
not be thus constituted, but be posited in places not parti
cularly appropriate to themselves, they will yet, even then,
infuse into the composition of the mental energythe pro
perty of their own nature ; but obscurely and imperfectly,
and not with such force and strong evidence as in the other
case. M
The peculiar qualities of planets in dominion, or in ele
vation, are powerfully impressed upon the mental energy:
for instance, persons, who, in consequence of the familiarity
of the malcﬁcs, become wicked and dishonest, have their im
Chap. XVIII] mommy’s rarnanmtos. ‘16?!
pulse to commit evil, free and unrestrained, when the said
familiarity is not governed by any contrary inﬂuence. But,
should a contrary condition impede and govern that familia
rity, the impulse will'be frustrated, and the culprits ,will be
easily overtaken, and undergo punishment. In like manner,
persons endowed with goodness andvirtue,‘ the familia
rity between the beneﬁcs and’the beforetmentioned places*,
and when no contrary inﬂuence in elevationmay‘ interpose,
will exert themselves with cheerfulness and alacrity in per
forming good actions, will be subject to no injustice, but
enjoy the advantages of their honesty and virtue. If, how
ever, this familiarity should be superseded by some contrary
condition, the very mildness and humanity of these persons
will operate to their disadvantage, exposing them to contempt
and accusation, and rendering them liable to be wronged by
the multitude.
The foregoing observations, relative to the moral habit,
apply generally ; and the particular properties, created in the
mental energies by the actual nature of the planets, accord
ing to the respective dominion of each, remain tostbe treated
of. . '
The planet Saturn, therefore, when alone possessing do
minion of the mind, and governing Mercury and the Moon,
and if posited in glory, both cosmically and with respect to
the anglest, will make men careful of their bodies‘I, strong
and profound in opinion, austere, singular in their modes of
thinking, laborious, imperious, hostile to crime,- avaricious,
parsimonious, accumulators of wealth, violent, and envious:
but, if he be not in glory, cosmically, and as regards the
angles, he will debase the mind, making it penurious, pusil
* That of Mercury, and that of the Moon.
1' This seems to imply, if well placed in elevation; as, in the mid
heaven, for instance, or in a conspicuous situation; and in possession
of dignities. '
1 Or, persons :“the Greek is WMfI/‘n'lllg.
Y
162 mommy’s Tarnanrntos. _ [Book III.
lanimous, ill-disposed, indiscriminating, malignant, timo
rous, slanderous, fond of solitude, repining, incapable of
shame, bigotted, fond of labour, void of natural affection,
treacherous in friendship and in family connections, incapa
ble of enjoyment, and regardless of the body*.—Con
nected with Jupiter in the mode before-mentioned, being
also situated in glory, Saturn will render the mind virtuous,
respectful, well-intentioned, ready- to assist, judicious, frugal,
magnanimons, obliging, solicitous of good, affectionate in
all domestic ties, mild, prudent, patient, and philosophical :
but, if thus connected and posited ingloriously, he makes
men outrageous, incapable of learning, timorous, highly su
perstitious, yet regardless of religion, suspicious, averse to
children, incapable of friendship, cunning, misjudging,
faithless, foolishly wicked, irascible, hypocritical, idle and
useless, without ambition, yet regretful, morose, highly re
served, over-cautious, and dull.-—Conciliated with Mars, and
posited in glory, Saturn renders men reckless, over-diligent,
free in speech, turbulent, boastful, austere in their dealings,
pitiless, contemptuous, ﬁerce, warlike, bold, fond of tumults,
insidious, deceitful, and implacable; promoters of faction,
tyrannical, rapacious, hostile to the commonwealth, delight
ing in strife, vindictive, profound in guilt, strenuous, impa
tient, insolent, mischievous, overbearing, evil, unjust, ob
stinate, inhuman, inﬂexible, immutable in opinion; busy,
‘able in ofﬁce, active, submitting to no opposition, and on
Jthe whole successful in their undertakings; but, if thus con
nected, and not placed in glory, he will make men plun
derers, robbers, adulterers, submissive to evil, seeking gain
by their turpitude, inﬁdels in religion, void of the common
affections, mischievous, treacherous, thievish, perjurers, and
sanguinary; eaters of unlawful food, familiar with guilt,
assassins, sorcerers, sacrilegious, impious, violators of the
* Or, person :-—p.wwulaaluc.
Chap. XVIIIJ P'rommy’s TETRABIBLOS. l63
.tomb, and, in short, thoroughly depraved.—C0nciliated with
Venus, and being again in glory, Saturn makes men averse
to women, and renders them fond of governing, prone to
solitude, highly reserved, regardless of rank, indifferent to
beauty, envious, austere, unsociahle, singular in opinion,
addicted to divination and to religious services and myste
ries; solicitous of the priesthood, fanatical, and subservient
to religion; solemn, reverential, sedate, studious of wisdom,
faithful in friendship, continent, reﬂective, circumspect, and
scrupulous in regard to female virtue: but, if he be thus
conciliated, and not posited in glory, he makes men
licentious and libidinous, practisers of lewdness, careless,
and impure in sexual intercourse; obscene, treacherous to
women, especially to those of their own families; wanton,
quarrelsome, sordid, hating elegance; slanderous, drunken,
superstitious, adulterous, and impious ; blasphemers of the
gods, and scoffers at holy rites; calumniators, sorcerers,
hesitating at nothing—If conciliated with Mercury; and if
in a glorious position, Saturn makes men inquisitive, loqua
cious, studious of law and of medicine, mystical, confeder- '
ate in seeresy, fabricators of miracles, inipostors, improvi
dent, cunning, familiar with business, quick in perception,
petulant, accurate, vigilant, meditative, fond of employment,
.and tractable: but, if connected with Mercury, and not
posited gloriously, he causes mén to be frivolous, vindictive,
laborious, alienated from their families, fond of tormenting,
and void of enjoyment; night-wanderers, insidious, trea
cherous, pitiless, and thievish ; magicians, sorcerers, forgers
of writings, cheats, unsuccessful in their undertakings, and
quickly reduced to adversity.—-Such are the effects of
Saturn.
When Jupiter alone has dominion of the mind, and is
gloriously situated, he renders it generous, gracious, pious,
reverent, joyous, courteous, lofty, liberal, just, maguani
mous, noble, self-acting, compassionate, fond of learning,
164 P'roLEMY’s TETRABIBLOS. _ [Book III.
beneﬁcent, benevolent, and calculated for government : and,
if posited ingloriously, he will endow the mind with qualities
apparently similar to these, but not of such virtue and lustre:
as, instead of generosity, he will their cause profusion ; in
stead of piety, bigotry; for modesty, timidity; for noble
ness, arrogance; for courteousness, folly; for elegance,
voluptuousness; 'for magnanimity, carelessness; and for
liberality, indiﬂerence.—Conciliated with Mars, and being
in glory, Jupiter will make men rough, warlike, skilful in
military affairs, dictatorial, refractory, impetuous, daring,
free in speech, able in action, fond of disputation, conten- ,
tious, imperious, generous, ambitious, irascible, ju'di'ciOus,
and fortunate: but, if thus connected, and not placed
glory, he'makes men mischievous, reckless, cruel, pitiless,
seditiOus, quarrelsome, perverse, calumnious, arrogant, ava
ricious, rapacious, inconstant, vain and empty, unsteady,
precipitate, faithless, injudicious, inconsiderate, senseless,
and oﬂicious ; inculpators, prodigals, triﬂers, altogether
without conduct, and giving way to every impulse-~When
conciliated with Venus, and in a glorious position, Jupiter
will render the mind pure,joyous, delighting in elegance, in
the arts and sciences, and’in poetry and music; valuable in
friendship, sincere, beneﬁcent, compassionate, inoffensive,
religious, fond of sports and exercises, prudent, amiable and
affectionate, gracious, noble, brilliant, candid, liberal, dis
creet, temperate, modest, pious, just, fond bf glory,"and in
all respects honourable and Worthy; but, if posited in'glo
riously, when so connected, he makes men luxurious, soft,
.eﬂ'eminate, fond of dancing, indulgent in expenées, incapable
of managing women, yet amorous and lascivious‘; mean,
slanderous, adulterous, fond of dress, dissolute, dull, waste
ful, without energy, enervated, fond ofpersonal'ado‘rnment,
womanish in mind, yet observant of holy rites and ceremo
nies, faithful, harmless, pleasant, affable, cheerful, and liberal
to misfortune.-—If connected with_Mercury, and posited in
Chap. XYIIIJ P'roLsMir’s Tarnanrnnos. 165
glory, Jupiter will render men ﬁt for much business, fond of
learning, androf geometry and the mathematics; poetical,
_ public orators, acute, temperate, well-disposed, skilful in
counsel, politick, beneﬁcent, able in government, pious, re~
ligious, valuable in all useful professions, benevolent, aﬂ'ec—
tionate in their families, ready in acquiring knowledge, phi
losophical, and digniﬁed : but when so connected, and placed
ingloriously, he will produce contrary eﬁ'ects, rendering men
frivolous, empty, contemptible, credulous offalsehood, sense
less, fanatical, triﬂing, petulant, aﬂ'ecters of wisdom, stupid,
arrogant, pretenders in art, magicians, and vacillating:—yet
he will also produce men skilled in various learning, and of
strong memory, capable of imparting instruction, and pure
in their enjoyments.
Mars alone having dominion of the mind, and placed with
glory, makes men noble, imperious, irascible, warlike, versa
tile, powerful in intellect, daring, bold, refractory, careless,
obstinate, acute, self-conﬁdent, contemptuous, tyrannical,
strenuous, stern and able in government: but, posited'inglo
riously, he makes men cruel, mischievous, sanguinary, tu
multuous, extravagant in expence, boisterous, ruHian-like,
precipitate, drunken, rapacious, pitiless, familiar with crime,
restless, outrageous, hostile to their families, and inﬁdels in
religion—Should he be conciliated with Venus, and posited
in glOry, he renders the mind cheerful, docile, friendly, com
placent, joyous, playful, frank, delighting in songs and danc
ing, amorous, fond of the arts, and of dramatic personation,
voluptuous, brave, libidinous in desire, sensible, cautious,
and discreet; disposed to free sexual intercomse *, quick in
anger, extravagant in expence, and jealous: but, if he have
an inglorious position when thus conciliated, he makes men
overbearing, lascivious, sordid, opprobrious, adulterous, mis
* Ugo; (44in $11M.» mi agglrwv haumwwr.
166 'P'I‘OLEMY’S TE'I‘RABIBLOS. [Book III.
chievous, liars, fabricators of deceit, cheats of. their own fa
milies as well as others, eager in desire, and at the same time
soon satiated, debauchers of wives and virgins, daring, impe
tuous, ungovernable, treacherous,-faithless, dangerous, ﬁckle
and weak in mind ; and occasionally also wasteful, fond of
dress, audacious, and shameless.—-Connected with Mercury,
and placed with glory, Mars renders men skilful in command,
cautious, strenuous, active, obstinate, yet versatile, inventive,
sophistical, laborious, busy in all things, eloquent, imposing,
deceitful, inconstant, overknowing, maliciously artful, quick
witted; seductive, hypocritical, treacherous, habituated to
evil, inquisitive, fond of strife, and successful; fair dealers
with persons of habits similar to their own, and, in short,
altogether mischievous to their enemies, though beneﬁcial to
their friends: but, if Mars be posited ingloriously, and thus
connected, he makes men prodigal, yet avaricious, cruel,
daring, bold, regretful and vacillating; liars, thieves, inﬁdels
in religion, perjurers, and impostors; seditious, incendiaries,
frequenters of theatres, covered with infamy, robbers, house
breakers, sanguinary, forgers of writings, familiar with crime, '
jugglers, magicians, sorcerers, and assassins.
When Venus rules alone in a position of glory, she ren
ders the mind benignant, good, Voluptuous, copious in wit,
pure, gay, fond of dancing, jealous, abhorring wickedness,
delighting in the arts, pious, modest, well-disposed, happy
in dreams, affectionate, beneﬁcent, compassionate, reﬁned in
taste, easily reconciled, tractable, and entirely amiable: but,
if contrarily posited, she renders the mind dull, amorous, eﬂ'e
minate, timorous, indiscriminating, sordid, faulty, obscure,
and ignominious.—Conciliated with Mercury, and posited
with glory, Venus makes men lovers of the arts, philosophi
cal, of scientiﬁc mind and good genius, poetical, delighting
in learning and elegance, polite, voluptuous, luxurious in their
habits of life, joyous, friendly, pious, prudent, ﬁtted for va
rious arts, intelligent, not misled by error, quick in learning,
t
\
Chap. XVIII.] woman’s TE'I‘RABIBLOS. 167
self-teaching, emulous of worth, followers of virtue, copious
and agreeable in speech, serene and sincere in manner, de
lighting in exercise, honest, judicious, high-minded, and
continent in desire as regards women it; but, when so con
ciliated and posited adversely, she will make men oppressive,
ﬁt for various arts, evil-tongued, unsteady, malevolent, frau
dulent, turbulent, liars, calumniators, faithless, crafty, insi
dious, practised in evil, uncourteous, debauchers of women,
corrupters of youth 1‘, fond of personal adornment, dissolute,
infamous, notoriously offensive and publicly complained of,
yet striving after all things. .
Mercury, alone, having dominion of the mind, and being
in aglorious position, renders it prudent, clever, sensible, ca
pable of great learning, inventive, expert, logical, studious of
nature, speculative, of good genius, emulous, benevolent,
skilful in argument, accuratetin conjecture, adapted to sci
ences and mysteries, and tractable: but, when placed con
trarily, he makes men busy in all things, precipitate, forget
ful, impetuous, frivolous, variable, regretful, foolish, incon
siderate, void of truth, careless, inconstant, insatiable, ava
ricious, unjust ; and altogether of slippery intellect, and pre
disposed to error.
To these inﬂuences and their effects, as above detailed, the
Moon also Contributes: for, should she be in the bends of
her southern or northern boundary 1, she will render the pro
perties of the mind more various, more versatile in art, and
more susceptible of change: if she be in her nodes, she will
make them more acute, more practical, and more active.
Also, when in the ascendant, and during the increase of her
illumination, she'augments their ingenuity, perspicuity, ﬁrm
ness and expansion; but, when found in her decrease, or in
" Hpociappmc 8t aramnmvow m {nlwurroua
1- Hmhv diavapsag.
I That is to say, in her extreme latitude, whether south or north.
168 ‘ I Proumv’s TETRABIBLOS. [Book III.
occultation, she renders them more heavy, more obtuse, more
variable of purpose, more timid, and more obscure.
The Sun likewise co-operates, when conciliated with the
lord of the mental temperament; contributing, if he be in a
glorious position, to increase probity, industry, honour, and
all laudable qualities ; but, if adversely situated, he increases
debasement, depravity, obscurity, cruelty, obstinacy, morose
ness, and all other evil qualities.
I Qrbapm XIX.
.: The Diseases of the Mud.
IN connection with the foregoing discussion on the proper
ties of the mind, the circumstances relating to eminent men
tal disorders, such as madness, epilepsy *, and others of the
like formidable nature, duly claim attention.
Now, with reference to these, it is always essential to con
sider the planet Mercury and the Moon, and to observe in
what mode they may be disposed towards each other, and
towards the angles, and also towards the malefics: for, if the
Moon and Mercury be unconnected with each other, or with
the oriental horizon, and provided such planets as may be
adversely and noxioust conﬁgurated should he in elevation
above them, or over-rule them, or be in opposition to them,
the mental properties will then consequently become im
pregnated with various disorders; the characters of which
may be clearly known by the qualities of the stars thus con
trouling the places ‘1‘. _
It is true that there are many disorders of a moderate na
ture, capable of being distinguished by what has been already
* Epilepsy is deﬁned to be “ a convulsive motion of the whole body,
“ or some of its parts, accompanied with a less of sense." The know
ledge of this latter eﬂ‘ect probably induced the author to rank it among
diseases of the mind.
1- Of Mercury, the Moon, and the ascendant.
I
.Chap. X~IX.] PToLnMY’s rxrnaeratos. 169
stated, in the preceding chapter, regarding the mental quali
Ities : for it is by the increase and growth of certain of those
qualities, that an injurious excessis produced; and every ir
regularity of the moral habit, whether by deﬁciency or su
perabundance, may be ﬁtly termed a moral disorder. But,
at the same time, there are other disorders of so vast and ma
nifold a disproportion, that they‘quite, as it were, overpower
-the natural course of the intellect and passions of the mind.
And of these greater disorders it is now proposed to treat.
For example, epilepsy generally attaches to all persons
born when Mercury and the Moon may be unconnected either
with each other, or with the oriental horizon, while Saturn
and Mars may be in angles and superintend the scheme;
that is to'say, provided Saturn be so posited by day, and Mars
by night: otherwise, when the converse may happen in these
schemes, viz. when Saturn may have dominion by night, but
Mars by day, (especially if in Cancer, Virgo or Pisces,) the
persons born will become insane. And they will become
daemoniac, and afﬂicted with moisture of the brain, if the
Moon, being in face to the Sun, should be governed by the
'maleﬁcs; that is to say, if she be governed by Saturn when
operating her conjunction, but by Mars when effecting her
opposition: and particularly when it may happen in Sagitta
rius and in Pisces.
If the maleﬁcs, only, should have ruled the scheme, in the
manner described, the said disorders of the mind will become
irremediable, although at the same time not eminent, but
doubtful, and not openly displayed ; but, should the beneﬁcs,
Jupiter and Venus, be conciliated, and be posited in eastern
parts and in angles, while the maleﬁcs may be in western
parts, the disorders, although highly conspicuous, will then
be susceptible of cure. For instance, under Jupiter’s in
ﬂuence, they will be healed by means of medical or surgical
aid, and by diet and medicine; under Venus, by the guidance
of oracles and by divine interposition.
z
.171) PToLEMY’s TETRABIBLOS. [Book I'll.
' Should the beneﬁcs, however, be occidental, and the male.
ﬁcs be found in eastern parts and in angles, the disorders will
then become not only incurable, but most conspicuous: the
epileptic persons will then be subjected to constant ﬁts, and
to danger of death; the insane will become outrageous and
unmanageable, breaking away from their families, raving and
wandering in nakedness: the daemoniacs and those'aﬁlicted
with moisture of the brain will become furious, uttering mys
terious sayings, and wounding themselves.
The several places of position in the scheme also aﬂ'ord
co-operation: for instance, those of the Sun and Mars con
tribute to insanity; those ofJupiter and Mercury, to epilepsy;
those of Venus, to the fury of enthusiasm; and those of
Saturn and the Moon, to demouiac affections and moisture
of the brain. ~t
It is by such conﬁgurations, as those just described, that
any morbid deviation, occurring in the active or reasoning
faculties of the mind, is produced; but a deviation of the
passive, or merely sensitive faculties, is discernible chieﬂy
in the excess and deﬁciency (as the case may be) of the mas
culine and feminine genders; that is to say, in the supera
bundance, or deﬁciency, of the power of either gender, to
produce a conformation agreeable to its own proper .nature:
and a knowledge of this latter deviation is to be acquired by
means of the following rules. ~
When the Sun, instead of Mercury, may be with the
Moon, and if Mars, together with Venus, be then in farm.
liarity with them, in that case, provided the luminaries only
be found in masculine signs, men will excel in their nature,
or, in other words, will possess in full plenitude the proper
ties becoming their sex; while the properties of women,
who are thus constituted more masculinely and more actively,
will deviate from the usual limits of nature. But, if both
Mars and Venus, or if only one of them, be likewise mas
eulinely situated, men will be freely and promptly inclined
Chap. XIX.] PTOLEMY’s TE'I‘RABIBLOS. 171
to natural intercourse and connexion; and women will he, in
like manner, licentious and intemperate in intercourse beyond
nature. Their desires will be practised 'in privacy, and not
openly, should only Venus be situated masculinely; but
shamelessly and publicly, if Mars also be masculiner placed,
together with Venus.
But, if the luminaries only be in feminine signs, women
will then possess their natural functions in greater plenitude,
and men will deviate from the limits of nature towards effe
minacy and wantonness. And, if Venus be femininely po
sited, women will be lustful and licentious, and men wanton
and soft; seeking connexion contrary to nature; yet in pri
vacy and not openlyi but, if Mars be posited femininely,
they will then put their desires in practice shamelessly and
publicly. -
The oriental and diurnal positions of Mars and Venus
also contribute to more masculine and more reputable quali‘
ties; and their occidental and vespertine ’7‘ positions to qua-‘
lities morefeminine, and more sordid.
Lastly, if Saturn be in familiarity with them, he will like
wise co~operate, by tending to. produce greater impurity and
obscenity, and greater evil altogether; but Jupiter, if in fa
miliarity, tends to greater decency and modesty, and altoge
ther to better conduct ; and Mercury to greater mobility, di
versity, activity, and notoriety of the passions.
\
* nmqum; perhaps, more properly, nocturnal: the word being used
in contrast to v/upmi, diurnal.
END OF THE THIRD BOOK.
BOOK THE prouarn.
thapttr I.
,—
Proem. \ ’
ALL those circumstances have now been set forth, which:
occur previously to the birth, as well as at the actual birth;
and after it, and which it seemed necessary to mention, as;l
conducing to'a knowledge of the general quality of the pony
temperament produced. And of the other points, new [re-7
maining, by which extrinsic events *‘ are contemplated, those,
regarding the several fortunes of wealth and of rank ,claim'
to be taken ﬁrst into consideration. Each of these fortunes:
has a distinct relationship; for instance, that of wealth.re-.
lates to the body, and that of rank to the mind. :
ﬁance II. I
The Fortune of Wealth. I ‘
Tun circumstances regulating the fortune of wealth are to be
judged of from that part alone, which is expressly denomi-i
nated the Part of Fortune; the position of which is, in all
cases, whether arising in the day or in the night, always as
far removed from the ascendant, as the Sun is distant from
the Moon 1‘. ‘ .
When the Part of Fortune has been determined, it must be
ascertained to what planets the dominion of it belongs; and
' That is to say, such events as are, independent of the will, and not
necessarily consequent on any peculiar conformation of the mind or
body. '
1' Vide Chapter 13 of the 3d Book.
O
clap: IL] motnm’s sne'asratos; ' ' 1734’
their power and connexion, as also the power and connexion
of others conﬁgurated withthemoi in elevation above them,
whether of the same ,or- ofxanadverse condition, are then \
to be observed: for,’ the planets whichuassume dominion
of the Part of 'Foi-tiin'e 'full forCe,‘ th'ey'willwcreate
wealth, and'f'especiallyi' should the-luminaries also givef'them"
suitablej'testimbhy tn' address. ’ ‘ j v ' ‘~ , A '* " ' 1
' (In'. fthisijmanner'," Saturn 'vl/ill': effect thefacquirementiiof
wealth" by {means if building’s, "agriculture, er" aaegatrss'g'f'
Jupiter, by holdingsomey‘gove'rnirient, or oﬁice'of'trus't'fdr'by’
the priesthood Manny the army and military command1;;
Venus by mean; Qflfriwdsr by theidWW-Of Wilt“: °F by
otherngiftsproceedingfrom WIOIIRDI", and Mercury by the1
sciences andzbry trade- ~ ' ; 1 ~. ' _ ' " .
Should Saturn, however,v when thus in inﬂuence over the;
fortune of wealth, in also vconfigurated 'wi'th' Jupiter, he par
ticularly provides wealth through inheritance; especially, if
the configuration should exist in the superior angles,.]'upiter;
being also in a. bicorporeal sign and receiving the application
of the Moon; f0r,'in such'a case; the, native will also be
adopted by persons unallied to him, and will become heir to
their property. _ ' t _ v ' ':
, ‘And, further, if other Stars, of the same condition as those
which rule'the Part of Fortune, should likewise exhibit'tes5
timonies ofdominion, the wealth will be permanent: but,
on the other hand, if stars of an adverse condition should
eitherbe in elevation above the ruling places, or ascend in
succeSsion. totthem, the wealth will not continue.—The ge-'
neral period of its duration is, however, to be calculated by
means of the declination of the stars, which operate the loss, '
in respect of the angles and succedent houses 1'.
* I have considered the Words, yuvnusmw twgsuv, as comprising “ the
“ dowry qf wives,” as well as other “giﬂ‘sﬁom women.”
1 That is to say, its duration will defiend on the time requisite to
174 e'roLlin’s 'rE'ra'ABmLos. [Book-1V.
@hspm III.
A The Fortune of Rank.
THE disposition of the luminaries and the respective famili
arities, exercised by the stars 'attendiug them, are to be con
sidered as indicative of the degree of rank or dignity *.
For example, should the two luminaries be found in mas
culine signs and in angles, or even if only one of them be
in an angle 1‘, they being at the same time specially attended
by a doryphoryI composed of all the ﬁve planets; the Sun
complete the arc of direction or prorogation between the stars, ope
rating the loss, and the places which give the Wealth. And the cal
culation is to be made as pointed out in the 14th and 15th Chapters
of the 3d Book. .
‘ It seems that there have been diﬂ'erent opinions on this point.
Placidus makes the following remark on the subject: “ I do not take
“ the dignitics from thc 'hor0scope, but from the Sun and Medium
“ Coeli, according to Ptolemy and others” (Cooper’s Translation,
p. 121.) ~
1‘ The Perugio Latin, of 1646, says, “ if either both luminaries, or
“ only that one of the chief quality" (which Whalley deﬁnes to be
the Sun by day, and the Moon by night) “ be in an angle,” Sec.
1 Doryphory. Vide Chapter 5 of the 3d Book. On the present pas
sage, Placidus has the following words: “ You are not to observe
“ what is‘generally alledged by professors, respecting the satellites"
(quasi doryphory) “of the luminaries, for digniﬁes; viz. that the sa
“ tellites are those planets which are found within 80°, on either side
“ of the luminaries; but that a satellite is [also] any kind of aspect
“ of the stars to the luminaries‘of what kind soever: which, if it be
“ made by application, its power extends inwardly over the whole orb
‘ of light of the aspecting planet, and the more so, as the proximity is
“ greater; but, by separation,it is not so. This doctrine may be seen
“ in several chapters of Ptolemy; for, an aspecting star inﬂuences the
“ signiﬁcator, and disposes him to produce eﬂ'ects co-natural to him,
“ by a subsequent direction. But a star of no aspect does not pre
“ dispose the signiﬁcator, and produces very little, or no effect of its
“ nature, by a subsequent direction ; this is the true doctrine of the
“ stars." (Cooper's Translation, pp; 124, 125.)
a
Chap. UL] PTOLBMY’S TETRABIBLOS.‘ 1.75 V
bysuch as are oriental, but the Moon by; occidental, the
persons then. about to be bornwill consequently become
kings or. princes. _ And, if the attendant stars themselves
should also be in angles, or oonﬁgur'ated with the angle above
the earth*, the said persons willbecome great, ,pOwerful, and
mighty in the world: andevenryet~ moreabundantly so,
provided theﬂconﬁgurations, madetby the attendant-stars with
the angles above the earth, be dexter. Brit, when‘both l“?
minaries may not be foundin masculine, signs as aforesaid",
but the Sun onlyiin a masculine and the Moonin a feminine
sign, and onlyone of themposited in an angle,_the other
concomitant, circumstances still existing in the, mode above
described, the persons about to be born _will then become
merely chieftains, invested with the sovereignty of life and
death. 7
And if the attendant stars, while the luminaries may
situated in the manner last-mentioned, should beneither ac
tually in angles, nor bear any testimony to the angles, the
persons then born, although they will still enjoy eminence,
will attain only some limited dignity or distinction ; such as
that of a delegated governor, or commander of an army, or
dignitary of the priesthood; and they will not be invested
with sovereignty. -
If, however, neither of the luminaries be in an angle, and
it happen that most of the attendant stars be either them
selves in angles, or conﬁgurated with the angles, the persons
then born will not attainto any, very eminent rank 3 yet they
will take a leading part in ordinary civil and municipal aﬂ'airs:
but, should the attendant stars have no conﬁguration with the
angles, they will then remain altogether undistinguished and
without advancement; and provided, further, that neither of
the luminaries be found situated in a masculine sign, nor in
an angle, nor be attended by any beneﬁcs, they will be born
to complete obscurity and adversity.
' “ The angle of the mid-heaven: see the ﬁrst note to this Chapter.
I16 ' rmtauv’s mr-aanrsnos. [[Book IV,
:, l The general appearance of axaltation or debasement of rank
‘ snubs contemplated as before stated, but there are many
gradations intermediate to those already speeiﬁedpand re
,observation as the particular'intetchanges and Tvari'a
' Etions, incidean to the luminaries themselves‘andth'eir dory
phoryyandl also to the dominion of the planets=wliich sm
pose sheirideryphozy. I For'instance, should the beneﬁcs, or
stdrsi'oi-thelsame condition, errercise the chief dominion,
an dignities to be acquired will-be not only more important,
but also more securely established: and, onlthe lather hand,
if- the chief dominion be claimed lbyrrhemaleﬁcs, or by
stars-of an- adverse condition, the dignities will be more
subordinate, and'more dangerous and evanescent.- , '
L The species of dignity may-he inferrcdthy observing the
peculiar qualities of the attendant stars. And, if Satum
have chier dominion of 'the Jdo'ryphdryche pov'ver~ and au
thority derived therefrom will lead to wealth and proﬁt: au
thority proceeding from'J'upiter andV'enus will be pleasura~
hle, and» attended by,presents and‘honours‘9 that proceeding
from -Mars will consist in commanding armies, in-obtaining
victories, and-in overelwin‘g-the‘ vanquished: and that pro
ceeding from Mercury will-be£iritellectual,~superintending
education and study, and directing the management of bu
SIHCSS- ' ' '
@hsgtzr‘ IV. .,
The Quality if Employment.
THE dominion of the employment, ,o'rlprofession, is claimed
' in two quarters ; viz. by the~ Sun, and by the sign on the mid
heaven. - l . '
7 It is, therefore, necessary to observe whether any planet
may be' making its oriental appearance nearest to the Sun *,
" See the 4th Chapter of the 8th Book of the Almagest, and the ta
ble “new; them inserted in the Armada. .
Clasp. lV.] Proanv’s 'rl'rnssnnms. 177
and whether any be posited in the mid-heaven; especially,
when also receiving the application of the Moon. And, if
one and the same planet possess both these qualiﬁcations,
that is to say, make its nearest appearance to the Sun, and
be also in the mid-heaven, that one alone must be elected to
determine the present inquiry : and, likewise, though the pla
net should not be thus doubly qualiﬁed, but only singly, in
whichever respect, even then that planet alone must still be
elected, provided itselfalone should possess such single qua
liﬁcation. If, however, thene should be one planet presenting
its nearest appearance, and another in the mid-heaven con
ciliatcd with the Moon, both must then be noticed; and
whichever of these two may have greater sway, and possess
greater rights of dominion, that one must be preferred. But
where not any planet may be found so situated, neither making
its appearance as above described, nor being in the midhea
Yen, then that one, possessing the dominion of the mid-hea
ven *, is to be considered as lord of the employment : it is,
however, only some occasional occupation which can be thus
denoted; because persons, born under such a conﬁguration,
most commonly remain at leisure and unemployed.,
What has now been said, relates to the election of thelord
of the employment or profession; but the species of the
employment will be distinguished by means of the respective
properties of the three planets, Mars, Venus and Mencury,
and of the signs in which they :may be posited.
Mercury, for instance, produces writers, superintendents
of business, accomptants, teachers in the sciences, merchants
and bankers: also, soothsayers, astrologers, and attendants
on sacriﬁces, and, in short, all who live by the exercise of ii
terature, and by furnishing explanation or interpretation; as
‘ " The Greek says merely “ that one having the dominion,” \vithout
- specifying the place of dominion: the Latin printed at Perugio. i8,
hOWBVlBr, “ dominum erupt: medis' 2021i,” which is certainly the Sense
required by the tenor of the previous instructions. “’halley also 1135
similarly rendered it. ‘
AA
178 r'roumv’s TBTRABIBLOS. [Book IV
.well as by stipend and salary, or allowance. If Saturn bear
testimony jointly with Mercury, persons then born will
become managers of the affairs of others, or interpreters of
dreams, or will be engaged in temples for the purposes of
divination, and for the sake of their fanaticism. But, if Ju
piter join testimony, they will be painters, orators, or plead
ers in argument, and occupied with eminent personages. v
Should Venus have dominion of the employment, she
will cause persons to be engaged in the various perfumes of
ﬂowers, in unguents and wines, and also in colours, dyes, and
in spices: thus she will produce venders of 'unguents, gar
land-makers", wine-merchants, dealers in medical drugs,
weavers, dealers in spices, painters, dyers, and venders of
apparel. If Saturn add his testimony to her’s, he will cause
persons to be employed in matters belonging to amusement
and decoration; and will also produce jugglers, sorcerers
and charlatans, and all such as practise similarly. But, if
Jupiter join testimony with Venus, persons will become
prize-wrestlers, and garland-wearers'l', and will be advanced
in honour through female interest.
Mars, ruling the employment, and being conﬁgurated with
"’ Among the antients, a garland was an indispensable decoration
at all public ceremonies, whether civil or religious, and at private
banquets. The making of garlands was, therefore, a considerable
employment.
1- It would seem, from “ garland-wearers" being placed here in
connection with “ prize-wrestlers” (eh-rm), that the author intended
to point out persons competent to obtain the victors wreath in public
exhibitions—But it appears that the word noavuoqag, garland-wearer,
also signiﬁes a person who was annually chosen by the priests to
superintend religious ceremonies, an oﬂice similar to that of high
priest. According to Athenaeus, the Stephanephorus of Tarsos was
invested with a purple tunic, edged or striped with white, and wore
the laurel chaplet, which Plato, in the treatise de Legibus, describes as -
beini constantly worn by-these oﬂicers, although the other priests
wore it only during the performance of the ceremonies.
Chap. IV.] ' P'rouan’s TETRABIBLOS- 179
the Sun, will produce persons who operate by means'of fire;
, for instance, cooks, as well as those who work in copper,
brass, and other metals, by melting, burning, and casting:
if Mars be separated from the Sun, he will make Shipwrights,
smiths, agriculturists, stonemasons, carpenters, and subord
inate labourers. .If Saturn bear testimony, in addition to
Mars, persons will become mariners, workers in wells, vaults
or mines, painters, keepers of beasts or cattle, cooks or but
chers, and attendants on baths or on exhibitions. And, if
Jupiter join testimony, they will be soldiers, or mechanics,
collectors of revenue, innkeepers, toll-gatherers, or attend
ants on sacriﬁces. »
Further, should it happen that two arbiters ofemployment
may be found together, and provided they should be Mer
cury and Venus, they will then produce musicians, melo
dists, and persons engaged in music, poetry, and songs: they
will also produce, (especially if changed in their places*), mi
mics, actors, dealers in slaves, makers of musical instruments,
choristers and musical performers, dancers, weavers, model
lers in wax, and painters. And if Saturn join testimony
with Mercury and Venus, the preparation and sale of female
ornaments will be added to the aforesaid occupations. But,
if Jupiter giVe testimony, the persons will become adminis
trators of justice, guardians of public affairs, instructors of _
youth, and magistrates of the people.
Should Mercury and Mars together be lords of the em
ployment, persons will become statuaries, armour-makers,
sculptors'l', modellers of animals, wrestlers, surgeons, spies
or informers, adulterers, busy in crime, and forgers. And,
if Saturn also hear testimony in addition to Mercury and
Mars, he will produce assassins, highwaymen, thieves, rob
* Meaning probably “ it'in mutual reception,” which position has
been before explained.
1- Or makers ofhieroglyphics—IIMMW- '
180 P'rouzmv’s Ternanmws, [Book IV.
bers lurking in ambush, marauders on cattle, and swindlers.
But, if Jupiter afford testimony, he will, engage persons in
honourable warfare, and in industry ; making them cautious
and diligent in business, curious in foreign matters, and
deriving proﬁt from their pursuits.
When Venus and Mars exercise the dominion together,
persons will become dyers, dealers in unguents and perfumes,
workers in tin, lead, gold, and silver, mock-combatants or
dancers in armour, dealers in medical drugs, agriculturists,
and physicians, healing by means of medicine. And, if
Saturn add testimony to Venus and Mars, he will produce
persons attendant on animals consecrated to religion; also
grave-diggers and undertakers, mourners and musicians at
funerals, and fanatics occupied in religious ceremonies, la
mentations, and blood. But, if Jupiter add testimony,
the persons will become regulators of sacrifices, angers,
'holders of sacred oﬁces, governors placed over women, and
interpreters ; and they will derive support from such occu
pations.
The properties of the signs, in which the lords of the em
ployment may be posited, are also inﬂuential in varying the
employment. For example, the signs of human shape
promote all scientiﬁc pursuits, and such as are of utility to
mankind; the quadrupedal signs contribute to produce em
ployment among metals, in business and trade, in house
building, and in the work of smiths and mechanics 2 the
tropical and equinoctial signs tend to give employment in
translation or interpretation, in matters of exchange, in men
suration and agriculture, and in religious duties: the terres
trial ancl watery signs tend to employment in water, and in
connection with water, as well in regard to the nurture of
plants, as to ship-building; they likewise contribute to
employment in funerals, in embalming and preserving, and
also in salt. ‘ V
Moreover, should the Moon herself actually occupy the
Chap. IV.] ' P'romrvrv’s TETRA‘BIBLOS. 181
place regulating the employment", and, after her conjunc
tion, continue in course with Mercury, being at the same
time in Taurus, Capricorn, or Cancer, she will then produce
soothsayers, attendants on sacriﬁces, and diviners by the
basint‘. If she be in Sagittarius or Pisces, she will make
necromancers, and evokers of daemons : if in Virgo or
Scorpio, magicians, astrologers, and oracular persons, pos
sessing prescience: and, if in Libra, Aries, or Lee, she will
produce fanatics, interpreters of dreams, and makers of false
vows and adjurations.
From the foregoing rules, the vari0us forms of employ
ment are to be inferred; and its magnitude or importance
will be manifested by the existing power of the ruling pla~
nets. For instance, if the said planets be oriental, or in
angles, they will give the person eminence and authority in
his employment; but, if occidental or cadent, they will ren
der him subordinate. And should the bencﬁcs be in eleva
tion, the employment will be important, lucrative, secure,
honourable, and agreeable; but, on the other hand, if the
maleﬁcs be in elevation above the lords of the employment,
it will then be mean, disreputable, unproﬁtable, and insecure:
thus,‘Saturn brings an adverse inﬂuence in coldness or tardi
" That is to say, the mid-heaven; as stated in the 4th Chapter of
the 3d Book, and in the commencement of the present Chapter.
'l’ This mode of divination, as practised by the Greeks, is mention
edby Potter. It is likewise described by a learned Doctor of Medi
cine, Geo. Pictorius Vigillanus, (in his Treatise “ de Speciebus Ma—
giae Ceremonialis,” printed at Strasburgh, 1531,) as being used
“when the fraudulent vanity of a daemon renders things more like
“ each other than eggs are to eggs.” And, according to this writer,
it is practised by exercising water, and ipouringit into a basin, where
in the vain and refractory daemon is immersed :—the said daemon will
sometimes remain at the bottom, and sometimes raise himself to the
surface, sending forth a slender hissing; out of which the desired
responses are to be formed.
152 P'roumv’s TETRABIBLOS. [Book IV.
ness, and in the composition or mixture of colours*; and
Mars produces opposition by audacity and publicity in enter
prise: and both planets are alike hostile to proﬁciency and
prosperity.
The general period, at which any increase or diminution
of the employment may take place, must, again in this case
also, be determined by the disposition of the stars, which
operate the eﬂ'ect, towards the oriental and occidental angles,
ﬁbapter V.
Marriage.
Tn]; consideration of circumstances relating to marriage, or
the cohabitation of husband and wife, as sanctioned by law,
succeeds to the foregoing details, and must be pursued in
the following method.
With regard to men, it is to be observed in what manner
the Moon may be disposed ; for, in the ﬁrst place, if she be
found in the oriental quadrants, she will cause men either to
marry early in life, or, after having over-passed their prime, to
marry young women ; “ but, should she be situated in either
“ of the occidental quadrants, men will then marry either
“ late in life, or to women advanced in age‘r :” and if she
be found under the Sun's beams, and conﬁgurated with
Saturn, she then entirely denies marriage. Secondly, should
she be in a sign of single form, and in application to only
one of the planets, she will cause men \to marry only
once; but, if she be in a bicorporeal or multiform sign, or
1' Kgna'in 'rwv magnum—These words have been rendered literally,
but they seem to contain some ﬁgurative meaning, rather than a.
literal one. Perhaps the preferable sense of them is, “ by a mixture of
views,” or “from various pursuits being blended together.”
1 The words marked with inverted commas, are not in the Greek;
they are found, however, in two Latin translations ; that of Basle, 154i,
and that ol' Pcrugio, 1646. - v
Chap. V.] P'roLEMY’s TETRABIBLOS. 183
in application to several planets, she will cause them to be
married several times; and, provided also that the planets,
which thus, either by adjacency or by testimony“, receive
her application,~be beneﬁc, men will then obtain good wives ;
but if, on the 'contrary, the said planets be maleﬁc, bad.
For example, if Saturn receive the Moon’s application,
the wives whom he will provide will be troublesome and
vmorose ; but, if Jupiter receive it, they will be decorous
and ceconomical; if Mars, bold and refractory; if Venus,
cheerful, handsome, and agreeable; and, if Mercury, sensi
ble, prudent, and clever. Moreover, should Venus be found
connected with Jupiter, Saturn'l', or Mercury, she will ren
der wives provident, and attached to their husbands and
children; but, if she be found connected with Mars, they
' will be irascihle, unsteady, and indiscreet.—-Thus far in
reference to the marriage of men.
But, in the case of women, the Sun must be observed,
instead of the Moon : and, should he be posited in the orien
tal quadrants, women will be married either in their own
youth, or to men younger than themselves; but, if he be in
the occidental quadrants, ‘they will either be married late in
' life, or to men who have passed their prime, and are advanced
in years. And should the Sun be in a sign of single form,
or conﬁgurated with only one oriental planet, he will cause
them to enter into matrimony only once; but, if in abicor
' poreal or multiform sign, or conﬁgurated with several orien
tal planets, he will then cause them to be often married.
And Saturn, being conﬁgurated with the Sun, will provide
husbands stedfast, advantageous, and industrious; Jupiter,
such as are honourable and noble-minded; Mars, severe
husbands, void of affection and intractable; Venus, amiable
" In other copies, “ whether by conjunction or aspect."
1‘ “ Saturn.” Not found in the Elzevir edition, but in others.
‘$
184 PToLEMY’s TETRABIBLOS. [Book IV.
and handsome husbands; and Mercury, such as are provi
dent and expert in business. But, if Venus be found con
nected with Satum, she will indicate dull and timid husbands;
“ if with Jupiter, the husbands will be good, just, and mo
“ dest’lt ;” if with Mars, hasty, lustful, and adulterous; and
if with Mercury, they will be extravagamtly desirous of young
persons 1-. _
In regard to the Sun, those quadrants which precede the
ascending and descending points of the zodiac, and, in ne
spect of the Moon, those which are measured from her
conjunction and oppositionI to her intermediate quarters,
are called oriental quadrants: the occidental quadrants are,
of course, those lying opposite to the oriental.
Whenever both nativities, viz. that of the husband and
that of the wife, may exhibit the luminaries conﬁgursted to
gether in concord, that is to say, either in trine or in sextile
to each other, the cohabitation will most usually be lasting;
especially if the said concord exist by means of interchange § ;
but its duration will be also much more securely established,
provided the Moon in the husband’s nativity should corre
spond or agree with the Sun in the wife’s nativity ll. If, how
ever, the relative positions of the luminaries be in signs in
conjunct, or in opposition, or in quartile, the cohabitation
will be speedily dissolved upon slight causes, and the total
separation of the parties will ensue.
* The words thus marked “ ” are not found in the Elzevir edition,
but appear in the Latin one of Basie, 1541.
i liq; null: urigupir'ruwe.
I That is to say, from the new and the full Moon.
§ By mutual reception; according to Whalley, and also according
to the Latin copy of Perugio, 1646- ~
II Meaning, probably, if the Moon in the husband’s nativity should
be in the same position as the Sun in the. wife's nativity, or harmoni
ously conﬁgurated with that position.
Chap. V.] » PToLnMY’s TETRABIBLOS. , 185
\
And should the configuration of the luminaries, when made
i in concord, be aspected by the_benetics, the cohabitation will
continue in respectability, comfort, and advantage; but, on
the other hand, it will abound in strife, contention, and mis
fortune, if the maleﬁcs be in aspect to the said conﬁgura
tion. \
In like manner, even though the luminaries may not be
favourably conﬁgurated in concord, should the beneﬁcs still
offer testimony to them, the cohabitation will then not be
entirely broken 05', nor totally. destroyed for ever, but will be
again renewed, and re-established as before. But if, on the
contrary, the maieﬁcs bear testimony to such discordant dis
position of the luminaries, a. dissolution of the cohabitation
will take, place, accompanied by. scorn and injury. Should
Mercia-y alone be conjoined with the maleﬁcs, it will be effect
ed by means of some public inculpation; and if Venus also be
found with them, it will be on the ground of adultery, or
sorcery, or some similar oﬂ'ence.
There are, however, other varieties in the married state,
which are to be contemplated by means of Venus, Mars and
Saturn. And should these planets act in familiarity with the
luminaries, the cohabitation will be appropriate and domes
tic, and authorised by law; because Venus holds a certain af
ﬁnity both to. Mars and Saturn: her atiinity to Mars, for in
stance, consists in each having exaltation in a sign belonging
to the other’s triplicity *, and it operates in the cases of
‘youthful and vigorous persons: while her afﬁnity to Saturn
' arises from their respective houses being in signslagain also,
belonging to each other’s triplicity-t, and relates topersons of
more advanced age. '
l” The exaltation of Venus being in Pisces, and that of Mars jrs
Capricorn. Vide Chapters 21 and 22, Book 1.
1- Libra being Venus’s house, and in Saturn's triplicity; and Capri- _ 7
corn being Saturn’s house, and in Venus’s triplicity. Vide Chapters
20 and 21, Book 1.
BB
38'
[86‘ P'roLEMY's TBTRABIBLOS- [Book-IV.v
/
- Hence, if Venus be in concurrence with Mars, she will
produce entire love and affection in the cohabiting parties; and Y
if Mercury also coincide with the said planets, such affec
tion will become publicly notorious. Should Venus be found
inra sign mutually common and familiar, such as Capricorn,
or Pisces’l", she will effect marriages between brothers and,
sisters and kindred by blood : and, provided-she be also in the
presence of the Moon, when the native may be male, she
will cause him to connect himself with two sisters, or other
near relatives ; but, if the native be a female, a similar con
tract on her partrwith two brothers or near relatives, will be
indicated, when Venus may- be also with JupiterT.
Again, if venus be with Saturn, the'cohabitation will
be established entirely in happiness and constancy; and if
Mercury be present with them, it will be proﬁtable; but,
should Mars be present, it will be unsettled, calamitous, andv '
afﬂicted by jealousy. And if Mars be configurated on edual
terms with Venus, Saturn, and Mercury, he will cﬂ'ect mar
riage between persons of equal age; but, on the other-hand,
should he be more oriental, marriage will take place with a'
youngeraman or woman; and, if more occidental, withr'ani
older person. Should Venus and Saturn be found in signs
common to each other, that is to say, in Capricorn and Li->
braI, marriage will be contracted between persons kindred by
blood: and, when the said position may happen in the as»
cendant, or in the mid-heaven, provided the Moonalso should
present herself there, men will become connected with their-v
mothers, or maternal aunts, or with their mothers in law ;
and women‘with their own sons, or the sons of their brothers,
or with their daughters’ husbands. But. if, instead oflthe
Moon,'the'-Sun should be in concurrence with the said posi~‘
tion, and especiallyshould itt'also happen that the planets in\
t Instead of the. Moon. . ,
'i‘.’ or
' Vide Note * in p. 185.
L Vide Note 1- in p. 185.
V.] PTbLEMY‘s TE'l‘RABlBLOS; 187
question may'be occidental, men will then connect themselves
with their, daughters, or the wives of their sons; .and women
with their fathers, or paternal uncles, or the husbands of their
Jdaughters. ‘ l ‘
When the aforesaid conﬁgurations’i‘, althoughnot existing
in signs of afﬁnity to each otherT, should be found in :fe
minine places, they will render the parties obscene, lustful
and shameless ; for instance, \vhen'found in the anterior and
hinder parts of Aries, and near the Hyades of Taurus, about
the urn of Aquarius, in the hinder parts of Leo, and in the
face of Capricorn. And should the last named planets, Ve
nus and Saturn, be posited in angles, they'will then, if po
sited in the ﬁrst two angles, the eastern and ,southern,,pro
duce a total exposure of the paSsions, and,cause them to be
publicly canvassed; but, if in the last two angles, the west
ern and northern, they will produce eunuchs, or persons un—
proliﬁc, and not possessing the proper. channelsof nature.
The passions, liable to operate in males, ,are'to be consi'
dered by observation of Mars: forshould he be .separated
from Venus and Saturn, but yet, at the same time, be sup
ported by the testimony of Jupiter, he will make men pure
and decorous in sexual intercourse, andincline them to natu
ral usages only: and, if he attach himself to Saturn only, he
will render them cold in blood and dull “in appetite; if, how
ever, when Saturn and Mars may be thus connected together,
Venus and Jupiter should also ,be conﬁguratedeith them,
men will then become easily excited and eager in desire, al:
though they will still be continent, and restrain themselves
in order to avoid reproach. But should Saturn be absent,
and Mars be with Venus alone, or even although Jupiter
" Ofthe planets before speciﬁed.
1 These are such signs as are connected witheach other in any
manner similar to that before described, as connecting Capricorn with
Pisces, and with Libra; or, in other words, signs common to the pla
nets conﬁgurated. 'i
188 mommy’s TETRABIBLOS. [Book IV.
also be with her, men will become highly licentious, and at
, tempt to gratify their desires in every mode*.——And further,
if Venus be found more occidental, men will connect them~
selves with low women, female servants, and aliens or yaga
bonds; but, should Mars be ﬁound occidental, with women
of rank, and gentlewomen; 'or with women living with their
husbands, or under the protection of men.—-Thus far with
regard to “males.
In the case of females, Venus requires attention: "for, if
she be conﬁg-urated with Jupiter, or with Mercury, she will
cause women to be temperate and pure in sexual intercourse;
still, however, when she may be thus connected with Mer-~
cury, if Saturn be not present-also, she will cause them to
be easily excited to desire; although they will controul their
desires, and avoid reproach. But, should Venus be conjoined
or conﬁgurated with Mars alone, she will render women li
ccntious and lustful ; and if, to both these planets, when thus
conjoined or conﬁgurated, Jupiter also present himself, Mars
being at the same time under the rays of the Sun, women
will then mingle in intercourse with servants, and persons
memer than themselves, or with aliens, or vagabonds‘: but,
should it rhappen‘th’at Venus may “be under the rays of “the
Sun, they will then connect themselves with their superiors
or masters. And, further, should 'the planets'be in feminine
places, or conﬁgurated femininely, they will ‘be content with
their passive faculties only'l‘.
’ The following passage also occurs here: " In In my 0 m can
it'lva hum, o h mp0; IYG'IOXIID; Ifl, larqreo; Mam Ill yuvmln: arm-u
Biennium, ovx' uanoAr-lwq 8|, u h upon-ripe: or erupt; 81mm lllflald'l, urge;
pom "Minna-in morprq. Sum“?! 1'"! {when wrap-xwrm IV 6‘; u
lﬂglg, am EDT“ Invxnv avifav'rai Ta 18 Sum“. u h lfl¢ﬂﬁg06 nc'n‘knm am,
If“ “are! 'n nip" can't-mm; 15871. no 3| {when ngmmxm err-m, up; new"
qﬂmuu IINIIN-n '
f To this the following sentence succeeds: “I h ammo»: helium“
‘ mm or lrlplg, an ngo; 10 1mm.
Chap. '91.] ProLsnv’s 'ns'rnsmsms. ‘ 189
Saturn, in being concilia'ted with such positions as those
now described, contributes to produce greater obscenity;
Jupiter, greater decency; and Mercury, greater publicity, _>
and greater ﬁckleness, or instability.
62W: VI.
Children.
Tm: next point to be investigated is that concerning children :
and, to accomplish this, observation must be made of the
planets posited‘in, or conﬁgurated with the place on the ze
nith*, or its succedent house, which latter is called the place of
the good daemon. And should it happen that not any pla
nets may be present in the said places, nor conﬁgurated with
them, it will then be: necessary to take into consideration
such as may be in opposition thereto.
Now the Moon, Jupiter, and Venus are esteemed as givers
of offspring; but the Sun, Mars, and Saturn are considered
as denying children altogether, or as allowing but few: while
'Mercury, being in quality common to both parties, lends
' co-operation to that with which he may be oonfigurated, and
gives offspring, when oriental, but withholds, when occiden
tal. / -
Tospeak brieﬂy, if the planets, which grant progeny, be
‘ so posited as described-t, and placed singly, the gift of pro
geny will be single onlyl ; but should they be in bicorporeal
or in feminine signs, they will grant double, offspring§z so
likewise if they should be in proliﬁc or seminal signs, such
v
* The angle of the mid-heaven,
1‘ The meaning, apparent from the commencement of ﬁle chapter,
is this :—“ should such planets be in the mid-heaven or its succedent
“ house, or conﬁgurated with either.”
I Movahlnv, single, or one at a birth.
§ Aiiupoyumv, double, or two at a birth.
190 P'roumv’s rnrnsnrnhos. [Book IV.
as Pisces, Cancer and Scorpio, they will grant twins, or even
more. And provided they shouldalso be masculinely con
stituted, as well by conﬁguration with the Sun, as by being in_
masculine signs, they will grant male children; but others
wise, if femininely constituted, female.
But, although the said planets, even if beneath the male
ﬁcs in elevation, or, even if found in barren places, or in
signs such as those of Leo and Virgo, will still grant chil
dren ; yet such children, thus indicated, will neither be
healthy, nor continue in life. Should it happen, however,
that the Sun and the maleﬁcs may be in entire possessionof
the places above mentioned, viz.. that on the zenith, or the
succedent house allotted to. the good daemon; and provided
they be, at the same time, in masculine or barren signs, and
the beneﬁcs be not in elevation above them, a total privation
of offspring is thereby indicated; but, should they be in fe
minine‘or proliﬁc signs, or supported by the testimony of the
beneﬁcs, children will then be granted; yet they will be lia
ble to disease, and short-lived.
If, however, planets of each condition should be conﬁgu
rated with, andhave prerogative in proliﬁc signs, there will
then ensue a loss of either all the children, or only few, or
else the major part of them; in the same proportion as that
in which the planets, bearing testimony to either condition,
may preponderate on one side rather than the other; by ex
celling in number, or ininﬂuence, in consequence of being
posited more orientally, more genuinely in angles, higher in
elevation, or successively ascending.
When the lords of the aforesaid signs" may be such as are
givers of offspring, and be either oriental, or in places pro
per to themselves, the children thus granted will become
eminent and illustrious: but, if occidental, or in places not
" That on the mid-heaven, and that on the eleventh house. ,
Chap. VL] PTOLBMY'S TETRAIIBLOS. 191
proper to themselves, the children will then become ~undis
tinguished and abject. Should the said lords also be in con
cord with the part of fortune, and with the ascendant, they
will render the children amiable, and cause them to be be
loved by their parents, and to inherit their parents’ substance:
but, if found inconjunct, and not in concord with the said
parts, the children will then become odious and mischievous
toitheir parents, and will forfeit the inheritance of their sub
stance.
Further, should the planets which grant progeny‘bevap
propriately conﬁgurated with each other, they will promote
brotherly love, and mutual regard and affection among the
children; but, if inconjunct, or in opposition,-they will ex
cite in them mutual hatred, deceit,-and treachery.
The general investigation regarding children is to be con
ducted in-‘the foregoing method: but, inorder ‘to- enquire
into particular circumstances 'consequent on the above, it will
be necessary to assume, as an ascendant, the position of
each‘ planet which gives offspring, and to observe thelsepa
rate schemes; drawing inferences therefrom as in the-case of
a nativity.
@1358!th VII.
4 Friends and Enemies.
WITH respect to friendship and enmity,~it may be observed
that great and lasting-familiarities, or disagreements, are-re
spectively called sympathies and enmities; while the smaller,
such as arise occasionally, and subsist for a short time only,
are denominated casual intimacies and strifes: the whole are
to becomemplated according to the following rules. ‘
Indications of great and lasting friendships, or enmities,
may be perceived by observation of the ruling places, exhi
bited in ~the respective nativities of both the-.persons, be
tween whom the friendship or enmity-may subsist..r..lt. is
192 ' mosauv’s TETBABIBLOS. [Book IV.
consequently essential to obserye the places of the Sun, the
Moon, the ascendant, and the part of fortune; for, should
all these in both nativities be in the same signs, or should
either all or most of them be countercbanged in position in
each nativity, and especially should the two ascendants be
within the distance of seventeen degrees from each other 1‘,
they will create ﬁxed and indissoluble friendship. On the
other hand, should they be in signs inconjunct, or in oppo- '
sition, they will produce great and lasting enmity. If, how-.
ever, they be not constituted in either of the modes above
mentioued, but merely conﬁgurated in signsr, they will then
produce, minor friendship; provided such conﬁguration exist
by trine 0r sextile; but, if by quartile, they will excite minor
enmity, so as to take effect at certain particular times, in
which the friendship remains, as it were, inactive and sub
dued, while the malcﬁcs transit the conﬁguration: and, in
a similar manner, enmity also will be softened and abated,
when the beneﬁcs may enter upon the conﬁguration I.
- The friendship and enmity, which men bear towards each
other, may be classed under three general heads. One kind
is suggested by spontaneous wilfulness; another, by the id“
of proﬁt; and another, by pain and pleasure mutually ex
cited.
And, therefore, should either all or most of the aforesaid
places he in familiarity with each other, friendship of all the
three kinds will be established: so, also, should the places
be entirely without familiarity, similar enmity will be esta
blished. If, however, familiarity, _or absence of familiarity,
(as the case may be) exist only as regards the places of the.
' Or, regard each other within the distance of seventeen degrees.
f That is to say; if the places of the Sun, See. in one nativity he
conﬁgurated with such parts of the zodiac as are occupied by the Sun,
8w. in the other nativity.
1 0f any of the four places above speciﬁed.
Chap, VIL] ProLnMY’s ThraasiaLos. 193
luminaries, friendship or enmity will then be established by
spontaneous will; and friendship thus produced is the best
and most secure; while, on the other hand, enmity so aris
ing is, in like manner, the worst and most dangerous. The
friendship, or enmity, consequent on the familiarity or non
familiarity of the respective parts of Fortune, will be esta
blished on the idea of proﬁt; and that, consequent on a si
milar disposition of the respective ascendants, will arise from
pain or pleasure mutually excited between the parties.
It will, however, be necessary to pay still further attention
to the places'in question, in order to observe whether any
and what planets may be in elevation above them, or in as
pect to them ; because, among all the said places, that par
ticular one, to which any planet in elevation, or in succes?
'sion, maybe adjacent, whether in the same sign, or in the
next, will possess the more powerful inﬂuence over friend
ship or enmity: and whichever place may have its aspecting
planets more powerfully beneﬁo, will- operate in a greater de
grees" to adrantage in friendship, and to the relaxation of
enmity.--The foregoing instructions are applicable to such
friendships or enmities as are great and lasting.
But, in the case of others, which subsist only occasionally,
and which have been deﬁned as casual intimacies and strifes,
it is essential to make observation ofthe motions of the
planets, as exhibited by each nativity; that is to say, the times
are to be calculated, on the completion of which the motions
of the planets of one nativity will cause them to enter on
certain places of the other'tiativity; for it is at such pe
riods that certain particular friendships and enmities occur,
continuing for a short time, until the said ingress of the
planets shall have passed over. '
For instance, Saturn and Jupiter, when making ingress
upon each other’s places, produce friendship by certain agree;
ments, or engagements, relating eitheito agriculture or to in
* Than the rest of the places.
(1 c
194 Proumv’s TETRABIBLOS. [Book IV
heritance : Saturn and Mars create contention and treachery
spontaneously entertained: Saturn and Venus, friendship be
tween kindred; liable, however, soonto grow cool : Saturn
and Mercury, friendship on account of business, or proﬁt,
or some secret art or mystery.
Jupiter and Mars create friendship in the direction of affairs,
and by means of dignities; Jupiter and Venus also create
friendship by means of female persons, or attendants on reli
gion, or on oracles: Jupiter and Mercury, friendship by means
of eloquence and science, and philosophical inclinations.
Mars and Venus cause friendship in the course of amours,
adultery and fornication: Mars and Mercury excite hatred
and strife by offences committed in business and trade, or
by sorcery. .
And Venus and Mercury produce communion by means
of the arts and sciences, by a mutual interest in literature,
‘ or by female persons. _ ,
Ittis in this manner that the planets operate in producing
friendship or enmity. And their comparative intensity or
relaxation of vigour is to be distinguished by the situation
of the places, which they occupy, with regard to the four
principal and ruling places*: for, should they be posited in
angles, at the places of the respective parts of Fortune, or at
those of the luminaries, they will render the casual intima
cies or strifes more eminent and remarkable; but, if they be
remote from these places, their effects will not be highly
conspicuous. The comparative degree of injury or advan
tage, liable to be received, is to be discerned by means of
the good or evil properties of such planets as may be thus
in aspect to the aforesaid places. ‘
\Vith respect to servants'r, the sign of the evil daemonI
' Those of the Sun, Moon, Ascendant, and part of' Fortune, as he
fore-mentioned. .
1- —- “ and the attachment, or disagreement, subsisting between them
“and their masters :”—so Allatins,and the Latin translation printed
at Perugio.
I The twelfth house.
Chap. VIII.] PTOLEMY’S TBTRABIBLOS. 195
i 0
is considered as the place to which the disposition ruling
over them must be referred j and it is to be observed what
planets are in aspect to that 'place, both at the actual time of
nativity, and at that of any ingresses made upon it, or Opposi-'
tions to it; and also, especially, whether the lords of the said
sign may be conﬁguratcd in familiarity with the ruling places
of the nativity, or not in familiarity. ‘ '
itbsptrri VIII.
Travelling.
Tn]; circumstances indicative of travel are to be considered
by means of the situation held by both the luminaries, in
respect to the angles, and, especially, by means of that held
by the Moon. For, should she be descending, or cadent
from the angles, she will cause journies and changes of resi
dence: Mars, also, if descending, or cadent from the zenith,
will sometimes do the same, provided he may occupy a situp'
ation in quartile, or in opposition to the lirminaries. And,,'
if the part of Fortune, also, should happen to be placed in
signs which produce travelling, the course and practice of
the whole life will be engaged in foreign lands. And further,
provided the beneﬁcs superintend the aforesaid places, or
ascend in succession to them, the engagements abroad will be
honourable and lucrative, and the return home speedy and
unobstructed : but if, on the contrary, the maleﬁcs superin
tend or ascend in succession to those places, the journey out
ward will then lead to peril and misfortune, and the return
will be replete with difﬁculty. But it is, at the same time,
necessary in all cases to consider the contemperament also,
and to observe such of the existing conﬁgurations as are more '
predominant. ' a
It most usually happens, that, if the luminaries be posited
in the cadent houses of the oriental quadrants, the travel!
will take place in the eastern or southern-quarters of the,
\
196 PTOLEMY’s TE'I‘RABIBLOS. [Book IV.“
3
world; and that, if placed in western situations, or in am~
occidental quadrant, travel will be then prosecuted in the“
northern or western parts. And, should the signs, which '
operate travel, be themselves single in form, or should the
planets, having dominion of them, be singly posited, ther
journies will then take place after long intervals, and ocea
sionally only : but, if the said signs be bicorporeal, or double
in form or ﬁgure, travel will be constantly repeated and con
tinued. ~
Thus, when Jupiter and Venus may be in dominion over
the luminaries, and over the places producing travel, they
will render the journies agreeable, as well as free from dan—
ger: for thetraveller will hejoyf'ully forwarded on his way.
by the magistrates. of the country, and by the eoncurrent:
assistance of friendly persons; the state of the atmosphere
will also be favourable, and he'will meet with abundance of
accommodation, And, provided Mercury also be present'
with the planets above-speciﬁed, utility, proﬁt, presents and ’
honours will likewise be derived from the journey.
Saturn and Mars, if controuling the luminaries, a'n'df
especially, if placed distantly from each other*,;will-prodnee
great dangers, and at the same time render the journey fruit— i
less and unavailing. Should they‘be in watery signs,'the ‘
dangers will arise by shipwreck, or among deserts and wilé
dernesses'l~ ; if in ﬁxed signs, by precipices, and adverse blasts
of wind ; in, tropical and equinoctial signs, by want of food
and other necessaries, and by some unwholesome state'of ‘
the atmosphere ; in signs of human form, by robbery,
treachery, and various depredations; and, if in terrestrial
signs, the attack of wild beasts, or from earthquakes.
|\
* The probable meaning is, “ if not acting in concert :” but the
Latin of Perugio says, “ sisinl opposili secu'ndum longt'tudinem."
1?, There seems a mis-print her-e in; the originai: harlhlu, “his!
“ vapours,” instead of had”, “ wildernesses.”
\
‘
Chap. IX.] Proumv’s 'rs-manrntos. ' 197
And, should Mercury also lend concurrence, the traVeller
will incur further danger from accusations made agaith him,
as well as from'reptiles and venomous stings or bites.
The question, whether the events will be advantageous or
injurious in quality, must, however, be further considered
by obscuration (made in the forms already detailed), of the
peculiar. properties of the places, in which the lords ofem
ployment, of wealth, of the body, or of rank, may be p0
sited. And the periods, at which travelling will take place,
are to be considered by the occasional ingress of the ﬁve
planets".
Grape: IX.
The Kind of Death.
11' now remains to treat 30f the kind and, species of death.—
It is, however, ﬁrst to be determined, by the rules already
delivered regarding the duration of lifet, whether death wilt
ensue from an oriental or accidental position of the pre
dominating inﬂuence. And, if death ensue from some
oriental position, or meeting ofrays, the place of such meet
ing must be observed, and by means of that place the kind
of death is to be distinguished; if from the descension,.or
setting, of the signiﬁcator, or prorogator, the placed" de
scensioni must be considered: because death is to be expected
, conformable in character to the inﬂuences, whatever they may
be, which preside over the said places; or, if not any inﬂuences
should directly preside, it Will then be conformable to-the in..
‘ﬂuences, of whatever kind, which may be brought ﬁrst in, sun.
cession to the places in question: the conﬁguration of the
stars, the property of the aforesaid anaerctic places, and the na
* On the places indicative of travelling:
1‘ Vide the 14th Chapter of the 8d Book ; on the number of thy
modes of prorogation. \‘ =
t That is to say, the sign and degree on the occidental horizon. ‘l 1
198 P'roumv’s rn'rnamnms. [Book IV.
ture of the signs and of the terms*, are, also, all of them
co-operative. ‘ - ' ' > '
Thus, for example, if the dominion of death be vested
in Saturn, he will produce_death- by means of lingering
diseases; cough, rheumatism, ﬂux, ague, disorder of the
spleen, dropsy, cholic, and complaints in the womb; and,
in short, by all such diseases as proceed from the super
abundance of cold. 1 ‘ ' = ‘
Jupiter eﬁ'ects death by quinsey, inﬂammation of the lungs,
apoplexy, spasm, pains in the head, morbid performance of
the heart, and by all diseases arising from the superabun
dance of air, and from immoderate and impure respiration.
Mars causes death by constant fevers, semitertians, sudden
and spontaneous wounds, diseases of the kidnies, expectora
tion of blood, and hmmorrhages of various kinds; by mis
carriage, or abortion, and by child-birth, by erysipelas, and,
in short, by such diseases as proceed from abundant and im
moderate heat.
Venus produces death by disorders of the stomach, and
of the liver, by scurvy and dysentery: also by consumption
or wasting away'r, and by ﬁstula and poison, and by all dis—
eases incident on the superabundance or poverty of moisture,
and its corruption. ' . 7
Lastly, Mercury causes death to proceed from fury, mad
ness, melancholy, epilepsy, falling ﬁts, coughs, and obstruc
tions,'and:by. such diseases as arise from superabundant or
disproportionate dryness. = . ‘
When'thelords of death may fully possess their own pe
culiar and natural properties, and when neither of the male
ﬁcs may be in elevation above them, death will ensue in the
' See a subsequent note, p. 199, which gives an instance of the
mode in which Placidus applied the power of the terms, in an
anaeretic direction. ' v V
1- Au c'mlmv. Perhaps more properly, putridity or rottonness. Th
Perugiol Latin translation: renders it by “ cancer.”
~Gimp. IX.] ' P'I‘OLEMY’S TETRAVBIBLOSL 199‘
modes above detailed, and in the ordinary course of nature.
But a violent and remarkable death will [occur when both
the maleﬁcs, either in conjunction, or in quartile or oppo
sition to each. other, may be lords of the anaaretic places;
or if both, or only one of the two, should attack either both
the luminaries, or even only the Sun or the. Moon. In such
a case, the evil character of the death will proceed from the
concurrenceof the maleﬁc influence,-and its magnitudev or
remarkablenature from the additional testimony of the lu
minaries :,its quality, also, will be known by means of the
rest of the planets and stars in; conﬁguration, and by the
signs which contain the ,maleﬁc inﬂuence‘“. - > i.
Hence, if it happen that Saturn be in ﬁxed signs, and in
quartileor opposition to the Sun, and contrary in condition,
he will, produce death by suffocation, occasioned either by
multitudes of people, or by hanging or strangulation: so,
likewise, should he be occidental, and the Moon be succe
dent to him, he will operate the same effects. If he be
posited in places or signs of bestial form, the native will be
destroyed by wild beasts: and,~if Jupiter also oﬂ‘er. testi
mony,» being at the same time badly afﬂicted, the death will
then occur in public, and by day; for example, by being
exposed to combats with wild beasts. If Saturn be posited
* Placidus, in treating of the nativity of Lewis, Cardinal Zachia,
uses these words: “This example also teaches us what the senti
“ ments of Ptolemy were concerning a violent death; when, in a pe
“ remptory place, both the enemies meet together, it is to be under
“ stood, that in the nativity the violence is sometimes ﬁrst pre
“ ordained from the unfortunate position of the Apheta; at other
“ times quite the contrary. But, because the direct direction hap
" pened to be inthe terms of Mercury, the sickness was attended
“ with a delirium and lethargy, so that you may perceive this to have
“ been the true cause of the native’s death.” (Cooper’s Translation,
pp. 198, 199.)
200 F'i‘OIJIMY'S 'rn'rnmr'ntos. ‘ [Book IV.
in opposition to either of the luminaries in the aseendant“,
he will cause death in prison: if he be conﬁgurated with
Mercury, and especially if near the constellation of the Ser
pent in the sphere, and in terrestrial signs of the zodiac, he
will produce death by venomous wounds or bites, and by
reptiles and wild beasts. And, should Venus also attach her
self to Saturn and Mercury thus combined, death will then
ensue by poison or female treachery. If Saturn be in Virgo
or Pisces, or watery signs, and conﬁgurated with'the Moon,
he will operate death by means of water, by drowning and
suffocation ; and, if found near Argo, by shipwreck. ShOuld
he be in tropical or quadrupedal signs, and the Sun beeither
in conjunction with him, or in opposition; or if, instead
of the Sun, Mars should so present himself, death will be
caused by the fall of houses or buildings; and, if posited in
the mid-heaven, death will happen by falls from heights or
precipices.—These are thevarious effects of Saturn, when
conﬁgurated as described. . - I
Mars, if in signs of human form, and posited in quartile
or in opposition to the Sun 'or- Moon, and contrary in con-
dition, will- operate death by slaughter, either in civil or
foreign war, or by suicide: if Venus add her testimony,
death will be inflicted by women, or by assassins in the
employment of women : and, should Mercury also be con
ﬁgurated with them, death will happen from robbers, thieves,
or highwaymen. If Mars be in mutilated or imperfect signs,
or near the Gorgon-I- of Perseus, he will produce death by
~"lrh ayOaganumnm nigwom 811ml: em oar-rm: which Allatius has "
translated, “ it‘ he should be in the ascendant opposed to either of
“ the luminaries” (siin horoscopo alter-i luminum opponatur) ; but the,
Latin copy of‘ Basle, 1541, as well as that of-Perugio; 1646, give the:
passageas now rendered. And it appears in a subsequent place,
p. 201 (where the word .ﬂ-gu-amm occurs),that it can-only’be properly
translated “ in opposition to the ascendant.”
f Caput Medusae.
._Gliap. IX.] . woman’s Tn'ruaamms. 201
decapitation, or by mutilation of limb. If found in Scorpio or
Taurus, he will cause death by surgical amputation,'burning
or searing, or also by spasms or convulsions. Should he
be found in the mid-heaven, either above or below the
earth, death will be inﬂicted by cruciﬁxion or impalement,
and especially if he be in the vicinity of Cepheus or Andro
meda. If descending, or in opposition to the ascendant",
he will produce death by ﬁre: and, if in quadrupedal signs,
by falls and fractures. Should Jupiter, however, bear tes
timony to 'Mars, and be at the same time afﬂicted, death will
ensue from the wrath of princes and kings, and from judi
cial condemnation.
_ 'If it happen that the maleﬁcs be in concurrence with
each other in the ﬁrst instance, and afterwards in mutual
opposition, in any of the aforesaid situations, the evil cha
racter of the death will be yet further augmented; but its
species or quality, and its dominion, will depend upon that
one which may be in occupation of the anaeretic place. And,
if both the maleﬁcs claim prerogative in the aneeretic places,
the bodies of persons who thus die will be cast abroad with
out interment, and Will be devoured by beasts and birds:
these circumstances will especially ensue, when the maleﬁcs
may be foundiin signssimilar in form to beasts and birds ;
and provided not any one of the beneﬁcs should offer testi
mony to the place below the earthT, nor to the anaeretic
places. ~
Lastly, death will occur in foreign lands, when it may
happen that the planets controuling the anaeretic places
may be posited in cadent houses 3 especially if the Moon he
* Avﬁugonmm. Vide note "‘ in p. 200.
i That is to say, the lower heaven, or irnum-coeli.—Whalley has
translated it, “ above the earth,” instead of. “ below ,-” mistaking w"
for mug. i
Dd
202 PTOLBMY’S TETRABIBLOS. ‘ [Book 'IV.
- present in the said places also, or if she be found in quartile
or in opposition*. ‘
@baptet: X.
The periodical Divisions of Time.
IN addition to the foregoing brief observations, applicable to
the various forms of death, further attention is demanded
with respect to the division of time, which requires to be
contemplated in its natural order and succession. _
Now as, in all genethlialogical cases, a certain common and
general arrangement, aﬁecting the region or country, and
the race or generation, is pre~supposed to be in operation, to
which arrangement particular inferences, relating to the
form of the body, the properties of the mind, and national
habits and variations, must each be subservient; and as, 'in
* On this chapter Whalley makes the following annotations: “ One
“ direction, how malevolent soever, rarely kills ; and, in most nativi
“ ties, there is required a train of malevOIent directions to concur
“ to death: where several malevolent directions concur so together,
“ without the aid or intervenings of the benevolents, they fail not to
“ destroy life. '
' “ In such trains of directions, the author here distinguisheth be‘
“ tween the killing planet and the causer of the quality of death;
“ for one planet doth not give both. The foremost of the malevolent
“ train is the killing place, and shews the time of death; but the
“ following directions, though benevolent, shew the quality; If the
“ train fall all together, and none follow, for the quality observe those
“ which precede, though at a distance and benevolent also; for,
“ though the benevolent contribute to the preservation of life, yet
“ they frequently specify the disease which is the cause of death.
“ And with these, our author tells, us, concur the conﬁgurating stars,
“ the quality of the stars and signs, and the terms in which the lords
“ happen. In violent deaths, the genethliacal positions of the lights
“ are to be observed, and how the maleﬁcs affect them, and [how
“ they] are also concerned by directions in the quality of death.”
V See also Chap. 14,1300}; 3.
Chap. X.] P'roumv’s 'rn'rnABinLos. 203
\
these respects, certain causes more general and predominat
ing are pre-supposed in existence before particular causes,
due care must consequently be taken, in order to make an
inference consistent with the course of nature, to observe
always the original and predominating cause, and never to
lose sight ofit; lest some similarity in nativities (if any such
should exist) might induce an assertion, when the original
predominating cause proceeding from the region itself has
been overlooked, that the native of Ethiopia Will be born
of white complexion, and with long and straight hair; or,
on the other hand, that the native of Germany or of Gaul
‘will be black in complexion, and have curled hair; or, that
the said nations are polished in manners, and cultivate learn
ing, but that the people of' Greece are barbarous and illite
rate : and so, in short, of any other countries ;——without duly
considering the national differences and variations in their
several courses of life.—-So also, with regard to the division
of time, it is in the vsame manner essential to consider the
ditTerent qualities of the several ages of life, and to pre
determine the appropriate ﬁtness of every age to, such events
as may be expected; in order to avoid the gross error which
might arise from a merely vague consideration of the sub
ject, by attributing to infancy some deed or circumstance of
too complete a nature and belonging ratherto manhood, or
by ascribing to extreme old age the procreation of children,
or some other action belonging to youth; and to adapt, on
the contrary, to each separate age such circumstances as
seem, by due observation of the periods, to be suitable and
appropriate thereto.
The mode of consideration* applicable to human nature,
is uniVersally one and the same ; and it is analogous to the
arrangement of the seven planetary orbs1'. It, therefore,
*, With respect to the periodidal divisions of time. -
1- It will, of course, be remembered, that the Sun, in the Ptolemaic
astronomy. is counted as a planetary orb. '
204 P'rousmv’s Tarnasiuos. [Book IV.
duly commences with the ﬁrst age of human life, and the
ﬁrst sphere next above the earth, that of the Moon; and it
terminates with“ the ﬁnal age of man, and the last of the
planetary spheres, which is that of Saturn; and, in fact, it
accordingly happens that the appropriate qualities of each
sphere take effect in a corresponding age of life, each age
being subjected to one particular sphere. These observa-_
tions are necessary, because the general divisions of time
must be considered by means of the spheres, as a primary
arrangement; although minor distinctions are to be made
by means of the existing peculiarities found in nativities.
Hence, the ﬁrst age of infancy, which endures forfour.
years, agreeing in number with the quadrennial period of the
Moon, is consequently adapted to her; being inits nature
moist and incompact, presenting rapidity of growth, being
nourished by moist things, and possessing a highly variable
habit. Its mental incompleteness is likewise in accordance.
with its familiar relation to the Moon, and her operative
inﬂuence. ’ ,
The age after this continues for ten years, and accommos
dates itself to the second sphere, that of. Mercury. ‘ In this
period, the intellectual and reasoning faculties of the mind
begin‘ to take their character, imbibing the seeds of leaming,
and developing, as it were, the elements and. germs of the
_ genius and abilities, and their peculiar quality. The mind
is also aroused to discipline and instruction, and to its ﬁrst
exercises.
Venus corresponds with the next and third age, which'
lasts throughout the following eight years, the number of
her own period: from her, the movement of the seminal
vessels originates, as well as an unrestrained impetuosity and
precipitancy in amours. _
- The fourth and adult age next succeeds, and is sub
ject to thefourth sphere, that of the Sun: it endures for
nineteen years, according to the Sun’s number. Authority
Chap. X.] Proumv’s TITRABIBLOS. 205
of action now commences in the mind, the career of life is
,entered upon, distinction and glory are desired, and puerile
irregularities are relinquished for more orderly conduct, and
the pursuit of honour.
Mars, next after the Sun, claims the ﬁfth age, that of
manhood, agreeing in duration with his own period, viz.
ﬁfteen years. He induces greater austerity of life, together
with vexation, care, and trouble. ‘
Jupiter Occupies the sixth sphere, and inﬂuences the ma.
turer age, during the twelve years corresponding to his own
period. Hevoperates the relinqu-ishment of labour, of ha
zardous employment and tumult, and produces greater gra-‘
vity, foresight, prudence, and sagacity, favouring the claim
to-honour, respect, and privilege. -
_ Saturn, moving in the last sphere, regulates the ﬁnal old
age, as agreeing with its chillness. He obstructs the mental
movements, the appetites and enjoyments; rendering them
imbecile and dull, in conformity with the dullness of his
own motion. . -
The common properties attributable to the various times
of life are subject, in a general manner, to this previous
adaptation; but there are particular periods, arising from
the respective peculiarities. of nativities, which also require
determination, and must be ascertained from the ruling pro
rogations ; that is to. say, from the whole of them, and not
from any single one only, as in the case of the duration of
life. For example, prorogation made from the ascendant
is to be applied to events aﬂ'ecting the body, and to travel
ling, or change of residence; that from the part of Fortune,
to'incidents affecting the substance or wealth; that from
the Moon, to aﬂ‘ections of the mind, and to'communion*
and cohabitation ; that. from the Sun, to dignities and
glory; and that from the mid-heaven, to other particular
' The Latin copy of Basle, 1541, says, “ to marriages.”
206 ' P'roumv’s TETRABIBLOS- [Book IV.
circumstances of life, such as employment, friendship, and '
the possession of children. So that thus, at one and the
same time, any single planet, whether beneﬁc or maleﬁc,
will not possess the sole dominion; for many conﬂicting
events frequently occur at the same period, and a person
may, at one and the same time, lose a kinsman, yet inherit
his substance; or be at once ill in health, yet prosperous
and advantageously established in regard to fortune; or be
struggling with adversity and in want, yet, notwithstanding,
be also a father and beget children ; or he may experience
other similar contrarieties : because individuals are subject to
occurrences which may affect either the body, the mind, the
rank, or the condition of wealth, and which are not altogether
fortunate or unfortunate at the same period. Semethi'ng of
thekind' will, however, frequently happen in cases of perfect
good fortune or distress, when meetings of all the bene
ﬁcs or maleﬁcs may concur in all or most of the proroga
tions. Still such cases arebut rare, because human nature
in general is not subjected to the extremity either of good
or evil, but rather to their moderate alternation and counter
changen _
The prorogatory places must, therefore, be separately dis
tinguished in the mode before pointed out; and the planets
meeting the prorogationsT must again be all taken into con-‘
sideration,: not only those which may be anaeretic (as in the
case of the duration of life), nor those only which may be
conﬁgurated bodily“, or in opposition. or quartile, but also
those in trinc-or sextile. And, ﬁrst, the times in each pro
rogation will be governed by the planet occupying or con
ﬁgurated with the actual prorogatory degree itself: if, how
ever, there ,be found no planet thus constituted, the nearest
preceding planet will govern the times until another, which
maybe in aspect to the .degree following in the order of.the
signs, shall take them; and this one, again, will do the same
V "‘ “ Bodily,” or in conjunction.
‘ Chap. X.] vr»'1~<>_1.1<:1\n"s ‘Tzrasnietos. ‘ 1207
until the next in succession shall take them*. The like rule
obtains with respect to any other planets received into domi
‘nion, and with respect to those in’occupation of the terms.
'Further, in prorogations of the ascendant, the degrees of
distances will-beaequal in number to'the ascensional times of
the particular latitude; but, in prerogation 'from the mid
heaven, to the times of‘culmination; and, in other proro
.gations, they will be in proportion to the ascensions, or'de
scensions, or culminations, and will depend on their proxi
mity to the angles; as hasfbeen already said in'treating‘of
the duration of life't. v . '
The arbiters of general times are to be determined by the
foregoing method ;‘ but arbiters of annual 'periods as fol
lows: viz. after the number of years which have elapsed
since the birth has been ascertained, the amoiint is to be
projected from each place of prorogation, in the succession
of the signs, at the rate of one sign for a yearI, and the
' On this 'passage, Whalley remarks, “ we are to observe in direc
“ tion, that the star in exact ray with the prorogator shall be ruler
,“ until the prorogator meets another ray; that then the planet whose
“ ray it is shall take the dominion, and so on. But it' no planet
“ aspect the hyleg (prorog'ator) exactly, that which casts its rays before
“ 'the prorogator is to be taken for ruler ofthe time, till another pla
“ net’s ray comes in by direction. And the lord ofthe term, in which
“ the direction falls, must be considered as a co-partner‘in this do
“ minion.” '
‘ 1~ Vide Chap. 14, Book 3.
I The Greek is simply m wt moan-a rum gun»; but the context
proves that the entire meaning must be as now given, although the
Latin translation of Perugio rendersit “ one year to each degree."
Whalley explains that by annual periods “the author intends profec
“ tions: forthe taking ofwhich, for every year from the birth, add one
“ sign to the sign in which the apheti'cs are at birth, and the sign which
“ ends at the year desired is the sign profectional for that year, and the
“ lord of that sign is chronocrator (arbiter) for that year; so far as
“the degrees of that sign reach. For example, it‘ a prorogator at
' 208 r'roLEMY’s TETRABIBLOS. [Book IV.
lord of the last sign" is to be assumed as arbiter. And,
with regard to periods reckoned by months, the same rule is
to he observed: for in this case also, the number of the
month, as counted from the month of the nativity, is to be
projected from such places as possess the dominion of the
year, in the proportion of twenty-eight days per sign. So,
likewise, in the case of periods reckoned by days, the num
ber of the day, counted from the day of birth, must be pro
jected from the monthly places of dominion, allowing for
each sign two days and a third-r.
It is, however, necessary to notice the ingresses made on
places allotted to different periods; for they take effect in
no small degree on the events of the period. Thus, the
ingresses made by Satum, on places of general periods,
require special observation; those made by Jupiter, on
places of annual periods; those made by the Sun, Mars,
Venus, and Mercury, on monthly places ; and the Moon's
transit over daily places. It must also be remembered, that
arbiters of general periods are chieﬂy paramount over the
events; and that, to their inﬂuence, the arbiters of particu
lar periods (each of whom acts by its own proper nature)
" birth be in 15° of Gemini, to 15° of Cancer serves the ﬁrst year;
“ but the ﬁrst six months are ruled by Mercury, and the last six by
“ the Moon and Jupiter; and so on.”
. ' The Latin translation ofBasle, 1541, says, “the lord ofthat sign
“ in which the number shall terminate.”
1- Whalley says here, “ let a sign he added for each month to the
“ signof the year. So, in the example before proposed, the last 15°
“ of, Gemini, and the ﬁrst 15° of Cancer, shall serve for the ﬁrst
“ month: the last; 15° of Cancer and the ﬁrst 15° of Leo, for the
“ second month; and so on. And for days, from 15° of Gemini to
“ 15° of Cancer, rules two days and eight hours after birth, 8w."
Placidus is of opinion, “ that Ptolemy, speaking of annual places,
“ is to be understood of the places of secondary directions; and that
“ when he speaks of the menstrual, he hints at the places of progres
“ sions.” (Cooper’s Translation, pp. 25 and 57.)
\
Chap. X.) Pronnnv’s 'rn'raaanos. 209
present either cor-operation or obstruction ; and that the
ingresses also operate on events, by increasing or diminish
ing their force and extent“.
The general characteristic property, and the duration of
the period, will be indicated by the place of prorogation, as
also by the lord of the general times, and by the planet in
possession of the terms; by means of the familiarity sub
sisting, from the actual. birth, between each planet, and the
places of which they may have respectively and originally
taken dominion. The arbiters of time will also give indica
tion whether the eVent will be good or evil, by means of
their own naturally beneﬁc or malefic property and tempera
ment, and by their original familiarity or variance with the
place of which they have become lords. But the period, at
which the event will become more'strongly evident, is shewn
by the relative positions of the annual and monthly signs
towards the places wherein the causes exist, and also by the
ingresses of the planetsf.
" Placidus says, that “ active ingresses, if they be similar to the
“ pre-ordainecl effects, cause them to inﬂuence; if dissimilar, they
“ either diminish or retard; as Ptolemy has it in the last Chapter of
“ Book 4.” (Cooper’s Translation, p. 27.) ' '
1' Placidus observes, that “the primary directions of the signiﬁca'
“ tors to their promittors, and the lords of the terms, Ptolemy calls
“ the General Arbiters of Times, because they pie-ordain the general
“times of their effects; which, as its motion is stow and its perse
“ verance long, discovers its etl'ects after a very long time; that is,
“ after months and years. In order that we may know, in this
“ extent of time, on what particular month and day the effects ap
“ pear, Ptolemy proposes these motions for observation, wherein,
“ when the majority of the causes agree together, then doubtless the
“ mom is accomplished, or most dlearly manifests itself.” (Cooper's
Translation, p. 109.) And he says afterwards, in speaking of secon
' dary directions, progressions, ingresscs, 8w. “ these subsequent mo
“ tions of the causes demand our greatest attention.” (Ibid. p. 110.)
In the Appendix to the same book, at p. 438, the prope; equation' of
E E
2 l0 P'roLEMv’s TETRABIBLOS. [Book IV.
The mode in which the Sunsand Moon may be disposed,
in reference to the signs relating to annual and monthlyv
periods, is also indicative. For example, should they, from
the date of the nativity, be posited in concord with the ope
rative places, and keep a position of concord at the ingresses,
they will produce good ; but, if adVersely posited, evil. And
also, if they be not in concord with the said places, and
provided they be contrary in condition, and in opposition or
in quartile, to the transits, they will cause evil : should they,
however, not be in quartile, nor in opposition, but other
wise conﬁgurated, their inﬂuence then will not be equally
maleﬁc. _
Should it happen that the same planets may be lords of the
times", as well as of the ingresses, the effect will be extreme
and unalloyed, if of a favourable nature; and more particu
larly unmitigated, if evil. And should the said planets be
not only lords of the times, but likewise hold dominion
from the date of.the nativity, and provided also that all the
prorogations, or most of them, should tend to, or depend
on, one and the same place, or, should the prorogations not
be so constituted, yet notwithstanding, if the meetings oc
curring at the periods be found to be either all, or most of
them, beneﬁc or maleﬁc, they will wholly produce, in all
respects, good or evil fortune, respectively.
Ftime, or measurement of the arcs of direction, is also treated of, in
reference to the 16th canon of Placidus, which is as follows :— t
“ To equals the ,Arc of Direction. Add the arc of direction to the
“ right ascension of the natal Sun ; look for this sum in the talite of
“ right ascensions under the ecliptic, and take the degree and minute
“ oflongitude corresponding with that sum; then, in the best ephe
“ meris, reckon in how many days and hours the Sun, from the day
“ and hour of birth, has arrived at that degree and minute. The num
“ her of days indicate as many years; every two hours over, reckon
“ a month." (Ibid. p. 55.)
' Whether general or annual.
Chap. X.] PTOLEMY’S TETRABIBLOS. 211
It is in this method, which preserves a natural order
and succession, that times and seasons require to be con
templated.
And now, in adverting to the scope allotted to this work
in its commencement, all further adaptation of the forms of
events liable to take eﬁ'ect at particular times will here be
relinquished; because the operative inﬂuences which the
stars exercise in all events, whether general or particular,
may be arranged in proper order, if care be taken that the
causes set forth by the Rules of Science, and the causes
arising from any existing commixture, be duly combined-and
a blended together.
'Tnls EﬁD.
AEPLPIENDDIIXQ
No:- it.
ALMAGEST; Boon VIII, CHAP- IV
THE various constellations of the ﬁxed stars having now
been duly described, their aspects remain' to be investi
gated.
Independently of the stedfast and immutable aspects which
the said stars preserve among themselves, either rectilinearly,
or triangularly, or by other similar forms*, they have also
certain aspects considered as referring exclusively to the pla
nets and the Sun and Moon, or parts of the zodiac ; certain
others to the earth only ; and others, again, to the earth,
the planets and the Sun and Moon, or parts of the zodiac,
combined. .
With regard to the planets only, and parts of the zodiac,
aspects are properly considered as made to them by the ﬁxed
stars, when the said planets and ﬁxed stars may he posited
on one and the same of those circles which are drawn
through the poles of the zodiac; or, also, if they be posited
on diii'erent circles, provided a trinal or sextile distance be
tween them may be preserved; that is to say, a distance
equal to a right angle and a third part more, or a distance
equal to two thirds of a right angle; and provided, also,
that the ﬁxed stars be on such parts of the circle as are liable
to be transited by any one of the planets. These parts are
* That is to say, by the opposition, trine,&c.
APPENDIX. ' 213
situated within the latitude of the zodiac, which circumscribes
the planetary motions. And as far as the ﬁve planets are
concerned, the aspects of the ﬁxed stars depend upon the
visible mutual conjunctions, or conﬁgurations, made in the
forms above prescribed; but, with respect to the Sun and
Moon, they depend on occultations, conjunctions, and suc
cedent risings of the stars: Occultation is when a star
becomes invisible by being carried under the rays of the
luminary; conjunction, when it is placed under the lumi
nary’s centre; and succedent rising, when it begins to re
appear on issuing out beyond the rays.
In regard to the earth only, the aspects of the ﬁxed stars
are four in number, and are known by the common term of
angles: to speak, however, more particularly, they are the
oriental horizon, the meridian or midoheaven above the
earth, the occidental horizon, and the meridian or mid
heaven below the earth. And in that part of the earth where
the equator is in the zenith, the whole of the ﬁxed stars
are found to rise and set, and to be above as well as below the
earth, once in each revolution; because the situation of the
poles of the equator, being in this manneron the plane of the
horizon, thereby prevents the constant visibility or invisibility
of any one of the parallel circles. But in other parts of the
earth, where the pole of the equator is in the Zenith, the
ﬁxed stars can never set nor rise ; because the equator itself
is then on the plane of the horizon, and circumscribes the
two hemispheres (which it thus creates, one above and the
other below the earth) in such a manner, that in one revolu
tion every star must twice transit the meridian, some of
them above, others below the earth. In other declinations,
however, between these extréme positions of the equator, as
just mentioned, there are certain of the circles always visible,
and others never visible; consequently, the stars intercepted
between the ﬁrst of such circles and the poles can neither rise
nor set, but must, in the course of one revolution, twice
214 APPENDIX.
transit the meridian ; above the earth, if the said stars be on
a circle always visible ; but below the earth, if on a circle
never visible. The other stars, however, situated on the
greater parallels, both rise and set, and are found in each
revolution once on the meridian above the earth, and once
on that below the earth.—In all these cases, the time occu
pied in proceeding round from any one angle to the same
again, must be everywhere equal in'its duration, for it is
marked by one sensible revolution; and the time occupied
in passing from either meridianal angle to the angle diame
trically opposite, is also everywhere equal; because it is
marked by the half of one reVOlution. So, also, the pas
sage from either horizontal angle to its opposite angle is
again effected in the same equal portion of time, wherever
the equator may be in the zenith, for it is then likewise
marked by the half of an entire revolution ; because on such
a position of the equator, all the parallels are then divided,
as well by the horizon as by the meridian, into'two equal
parts. But in all other declinations,‘the time of passage of
a semicircle above the earth is not equal to that of its pas
sage below the earth, except only in the case of the equi
noctial circle itself, which, in an oblique sphere, is the only
one divided by the horizon into two equal parts, all others
(its parallels) being bisected into dissimilar and unequal arcs.
It follows, accordingly, that the time contained in the space
between rising or setting, and either meridian, must be ‘equal
. to the time between the same meridian and rising or setting;
becausevthe meridian divides equally such portions of the
parallels as are above or under the earth. But in proceeding
in an oblique sphere, from rising or setting to either meri
dian, the. time occupied must be unequal; and in a right
sphere, equal, because the entire portions above the earth
are, in a right sphere only, equal to those below the earth ;
whence, for instance, in a right sphere, whatever stars may
be together on the meridian must also all rise and set to
APPENDIX. 215
gether, until their progress becomes perceptible by the poles
of the zodiac; while, on the other hand, in an oblique
sphere, whatever stars may be together on the meridian can
neither all rise together nor set together; for the more
southern stars must always rise later than those which are
more northern, and set earlier“.
The aspects made by the ﬁxed stars, in regard to the pla
nets or parts of the zodiac, and the earth combined, are
considered, in a general manner, by the rising, or meridianal
position, or setting of the said ﬁxed stars in conjunction
with any planet or part of the zodiac ; but their aspects are
properly distinguishable, by means of the Sun, in the nine
following modes :-— t
l. The ﬁrst is called matutine subsolar, when the star is
foundtogether with the Sun in the oriental horizon. Of
this aspect, one species is called the Oriental, invisible, and
succedent rising; when the star, at the commencement of
its occultation, rises immediately after the Sun: another is i
called the precise oriental co-rising ; when the star is found
in partile conjunction with the Sun in the oriental horizon:
another is the oriental, precedent, and visible rising; When
the star, beginning to appear, rises before the Sun.
2. The second, aspect is termed matutine location in the.
mid-heaven ; when the star is found on the meridian, either
above or below the earth, while the Sun is on the oriental
hori'zon. And of this aspect, one species is called a succe
dent and oriental location in the mid-heaven, invisible;
when, immediately after the Sun’s rising, the star shall be
found on the meridian : another is the precise oriental loca
tion in the mid-heaven ; when, exactly as the Sun rises, the .
star is at the same time on the meridian; .another is the ori
ental precedent location in the mid-heaven; when the start
ﬁrst shall'come to the meridian above the earth, and the
Sun may then immediately rise.
" "‘ On this side of the equator.
216 APPENDIX.
3. The third, called matutine setting,'is when the Sun
may be actually in the oriental horizon, but: the star in the
occidental. ,One of the forms of this aspect is called the
oriental, succedent setting, invisible; when the star sets
immediately after the Sun’s rising: another is the precise
oriental co-setting, when the star sets at the moment of the
Sun’s rising: another is the oriental, precedent, and visible
setting, when the Sun does not rise until immediately after
the setting of the star.
4. The fourth aspect is named meridianal subsolar,»and
takes place when the Sun is actually on the meridian, but
the star on the oriental horizon. Of this, one is diurnal and
invisible; when the star rises while the Sun is posited on
the meridian above the earth : another is noctumal and vi
sible; when the star rises while the Sun is placed on the
meridian below the earth.
5. The ﬁfth is called meridianal location in the mid
heaven; when the Sun, as well as the star, may be at the
same time on the meridian.“ Of this aspect, two sorts are
diurnal and invisible; when the star is on the meridian
above the earth, together with the Sun, or on that below the
earth, diametrically opposite to the Sun. Two also are noc
turnal, and of these, one is invisible; when the star is on
the meridian under the earth, together with the Sun: the
other, however, is visible; when the star is on the meridian
above the earth, diametrically opposite to the Sun.
6. The sixth is meridianal setting; when the star is found
on the occidental horiZon, while the Sun ‘is on the meridian.
Of this, one species is diurnal and invisible ; when the star
sets while the ‘Sun is above the earth on the meridian : the
other isnocturnal and visible ; when the star sets while the
Sun is on'ithe meridian below the earth.
7. The seventh aspect is called vespertine subsolar ; when
the star is found on the oriental horizon, while the Sun is
posited on the occidental horizon. One form of this aspect
\ APPENDIX. 217
is the vespertine succedent rising, visible; when the star rises
immediately after sunset: another is the precise vespertine
co-rising; when the star rises and the Sun sets at one and
the same time : another is the precedent, vespertine rising,
invisible; when the star rises immediately before the Sun
sets. '
8. The eighth is named vespertine location in the ~mid
heaven; when the star is on the meridian, either above or
below the earth, while the Sun is placed on the occidental
horizon. Of this aspect, one kind is called a visible vesper
tine location in the mid-heaven; when the star is found
there immediately after sunset: another is the precise ves
pertine location in the mid-heaven; when the star is found
there at the moment of sunset: another is the vespertine
precedent location in the mid-heaven, invisible; when the
_star arrives there immediately before sunset.
9. The ninth aspect is called vespertine setting ; when the
star, together with the Sun, is on the occidental horizon. One
form of this aspect is the vespertine, succedent and visible
setting; when the star, at the commencement of its occul
tation, sets immediately after the Sun: another is the pre
cise Vesper-tine setting; when the star sets at the same mo
ment with the Sun t another is the precedent, invisible set
ting; when the star, before it emerges from its occultation, '
sets before the Sun.
N0. JHI.
ALMAGEST ; Boox II. ‘ EXTRACT mom CHAP. IX.
Of Circumstances regulated Ascensions.
—IN any climate whatever, the magnitude of a given day or
night is to be computed by the number of ascensional times
proper to that particular climate. For example, the mag:
F F
213 APPENDIX.
uitude of the day will be ascertained by numbering the times
between the Sun’s zodiacal degree and the degree diametri
cally opposite, in the succession of the signs; and that of
the night, by numbering the times, from the degree diame
trically opposite to the Sun, onwards, in the order of the
signs, to the degree actually occupiedby the Sun : because,
by dividing the respective amounts of these times so obtain
ed, by ﬁfteen, the number of equatorial hours belonging to _
each space will be exhibited; and if the division be made
by twelve, instead of ﬁfteen, the result will shew the num
bers of degrees equivalent to one temporal hour of either
of the said spaces respectively’ll‘. ‘
The‘ma‘gnitude of any temporal hour may be, however,
more easily found by referring to the annexed Table of As-‘
ceusions, and taking the ditTerence between the respective
aggregate numbers, inserted therein under the heads of the
equinoctial parallel or right sphere, and of'any particular
climate for which the magnitude of the temporal hour is
- required; and, if the said hour he a diurnal hour, the ag
gregate times as stated against the zodiacal‘degree occupied
by the Sun; but, if nocturnal, those stated against the de
gree diametrically opposite, 'are to be compared, and the
sixth part of the difference between them is to be added, if
* Thus (according to the Table inserted at p. 223), in the climate
or latitude of Lower Egypt, the times of ascension between the ﬁrst
point of Gemini and the ﬁrst point of Sagittarius, diametrically oppo
site, are 205° 18’, which, being divided by 15, give 13 hours 41 mi
nutes and attraction, of equatorial time, as the length of the day of
the ﬁrst point of Gemini. And the same number of times of ascen
sion, divided by 12, give 17° 6' and alfraction of the equator, as the
length of the diurnal temporal hour. In the latitude of Southern
Britain, the times of ascension between the same points as above
mentionedarc 236° 2’, which, divided by 15, give 15 hours 4-4 mi
ltutqs and a fraction of equatorial time as the length of the day of the
Wpoirit ofGemini.;,and, if divided by 12, they produce 19° 40’ and
a t'r‘a'etiou‘ol' equator, as the length of the diurnal temporal ho/ur.‘
J '
APPENDIX. 2“)
the said, degree he in the northern signs, to the 'ﬁfteen times
of an equatorial hour; but subtracted therefrom, if in:;the
southern signs. The amount thus obtained will be the re
quired number of degrees of the temporal hour in question’l'i.
.- And if it be required to reduce the temporal hours ofany
given day or night, in a certain climate, into equatorial
hours, they must be multiplied by their proper horary times,
whether diurnal or nocturnal, as the case may be ; the Pro'
duct is then to be divided by ﬁfteen, and the quotient will
necessarily be the number of equatorial hours in the climate
in question, on the given day or night'l‘. On the other
" Thus, the aggregate times of ascension, in a-right sphere, of thc
ﬁrst point of Gemini are 57° 44'; and, in the climate of Lower Egypt,
45° 5': the sixth part of the diti'erence between them is 2° 6’ and a
fraction, which, added to 15°, again makes the diurnal temporal hour
of the ﬁrst point of Gemini equal to 17° 6' and a fraction of the equa
tor. In the climate of Southern Britain, the aggregate times of as
cension of the ﬁrst point of Gemini are 29° 43' : the sixth part of the
diti'erence between that sum and 57° 44' of right ascension is 4° 40'
and a fraction, which, added to 15°, makes the diurnal temporal hour
of the ﬁrst point of Gemini, in South Britain, equal to 19° 40' and a
fraction of the equator, as before shewn.
t For example, *
Diurnal horary times of the ﬁrst point of Gemini, in thc
latitude of Alexandria - r - - - - 170 6, 30-:
Number of temporal hours - - - - - ' 12
15)205 18 0
Diurnal equatorial hours of the ﬁrst point of Gemini in
the latitude of Alexandria - - - - - 18 41 1‘; ‘
Diurnal horary times of the ﬁrst point of Gemini in the
latitude ofSouthern Britain - - - - 19° 40’ 10”
Number of temporal hours - - - - - ‘ 12 ,
15)236 2 o
Diurnal equatorial hours of the ﬁrst point of Gemini in
the latitude of Southern Britain - '5 - - 15 44 8
_='—'=
220 nrrnumx.
hand, equatorial hours are also to be reduced into temporal
hours by'being multiplied by ﬁfteen, the product of which
is to be divided by the homry times proper to the given day
or’night in the said climate.
The degree ascending in the ecliptic, at any given tem
poral hour, may, also be ascertained by multiplying the num
ber of temporal hours since sunrise, if the given hour he
diurnal, but if nocturnal, since sunset, by their proper ho
rary times; and the product is to be added, in the succes
sion of the signs, to the aggregate number (as shewn. by the
asCensions proper to the climate) of the Sun’s degree, it? the
given hour he diurnal, but, if nocturnal, to that of the de
gree diametrically opposite, and that particular degree of the
ecliptic which shall cor'rapond with the total number thus
found in- the ascensions of the climate will bethe degree
then ascending'.
But, in order to ascertain the degree on the meridian above
the earth, the number of temporal hours since the preceding
noon are also to be multiplied by their proper horary times,
and the product is to be added to- the aggregate number of
the Sun’s right ascension; and’ that degree of the ecliptic,
with which the total number as found in the aggregate times
oli right ascension shall correspond, will then be on the me
ridian'l'. The degree on tho oriental horizon will, however,
' Let the ﬁrst point of Gemini be on the meridian above the earth;
the number of temporal hours since sunrise will then be 6, by which
17.° 6’ 30" are to be multiplied. The product will he 102° 39’ '. this,
added to 45° 5', the aggregate number of the ﬁrst point of Gemini in
the latitude of Alexandria, will give 147° 44!, which, in-the‘ascmr-I
sions 06th climate in question, will correspond to theeﬁd degree of
Virgo, and shew that to be the degree ascending. In' the latitude ol'r
Southern Britain the total number would still amount to the same;
viz. 147° 44', but it would shew 7° and about 30’ of Virgo to be as- .
cending.
{Let the, ﬁrst point of Gemini be three temporal hours past the
meridian: these hours reduced to degrees, in the latitude of Alex
APPENDIX. 221
also shew what degree occupies the meridian; for, by sub
tracting 90 times (the amount of the quadrant) from the
aggregate number ascribed to the said ascending degree in
the Table proper to the climate, the number so reduced will
be found, in the aggregate times of the Table of Right As
cension, to correspond with the degree on the meridian. And
again, On the other hand, by adding 90 to the aggregate
times ascribed by right ascension to the degree on the me
ridian above the earth, the degree ascending may he obtain
ed, for it will be that degree‘ which corresponds to that total
'number, as stated in the Table proper to the climate*.
The Sutr always preserves an equal distance in equatorial
hours from all parts of the Same meridian ; but his distance
in equatorial hours from different meridians varies according
to the degreesof distance between meridian and meridian.
andria, will give 51° 19', which, added to the right ascension of the
ﬁrst point of Gemini, male 10th> 3’, showing the 18th degree of Cam
cer 0n the meridian. In the latitude of Southern Britain, these hours
would produce 59°, which, added to the right ascension, Would make
116° 44’, and show the 25th degree ofCancer on the meridian.
* Thus, in the latitude of Alexandria, when the ﬁrst point of Ge
mini is three temporal hours past the meridian, the 16th degree of
Libra will be on the aseendant, and the aggregate times of ascension
of that degree‘in the said latitude are- f99° 3’: by‘subtrttdting 90 from
this sum, the remainder will be 109° 8', the right ascension of the
mid-heaven'answerhig to“ the 185i! degree of Cancer. In tle latitude
of Southern Britain, the 18th degree of Librat would he on the as
cendant, of which degree the aggregate times of ascension in that
latitude are 296° 44‘, from which, ill 90 be sublraoted, the remainder
will be 116°'441,010 right ascension of the midLheMen ans'wering to
the 25th degree of CanoetL—The converse of these operations seems
_ too obvious to needcxptanat'ron.
\ r
222 APPENDIX.
TABLE OF LATITUDES, AS SHEWN BY THE DURATION
OF THE LONGEST DAY.
[From \he Almagest.]
LONGEST DAY. LATITUDE. LONGI$T DAY.‘ LATITUDE.
n. M. n. m. n. M. u. m.
12 0 0 0 16 15 50 15
12 15 4 15 16 30 1‘ 51 55
12 30 '8 25 16 45 52 50
12 45 12 80 17 0 54: 1
13 0 16 2'7 17 15 55 0
13 15 20 14 17 30 56 0‘
13 30 23 51 17 45 57 O
13 45 21 40 18 0 58 0
14 0 *30 22 18 30 59 80
141 15 33 18 .19 0 61 0
14 30 36 0 19 30 62 0
14- 45 as as 20 0 63 0'
15 0 40 56 21 0 64 30
1515 42 5 22 o 65 so
15 30 4-5 1 25 0 66 0
15 4-5 4-6 51 24 0, 66 10
l6 0 48 32
* Alexandria. 1 Southern Britain.
APPENDIX.- 223
Extract from the Table of Aécensions (contained in the
Almagest), calculatedfor every tenth Degree Qf the Zodiac.
1” a Right thro’ Lower
Eggpt, Lat Britéu'n,
Diurnal Arc 3.0 22' N' [AF'51 30' N
12 Baum Dmnzal Arc Dam-nut Arc
' 14 Hours. 6 Rs. 30 Mt:
A .
0f gate ‘21“ gg"
Times. '
_ n. M. V D. M.
Anes.........l 9.1 9.1
9.1 l
27.
ﬁlll'US..-..-.
emini.. .....
l
0.4
13......
irgo........l
........l
224 APPENDIX.
K? The foregoing extracts have been made to shew the entire
agreement between the astronomy of the Tetrabihlos and that
of the Almagest, The Tables herein given from the latter
work, are, of course, [now superseded by others of modern
calculation, inﬁnitely more complete. ‘
W
N0. iIiHI.
Tile Centtloquy, or Hundred Aphorisms of Claudius
Ptolemy" ,- othemiise called, the Fruit of
his Hmr Books.
I. JUDGMENT must be regulated by thyself, as well as by
the science; for it is not possible that particular forms of
events should be declared by any person, however scientiﬁc;
since the understanding conceives only a certain general idea
of some sensible event, and not its particular form. It is,
therefore, necessary for him who practises herein to adopt
inference. They only who are inspired by the deity can pre
dict particulars. I
II. When an enquirer shall make mature search into an
expected event, there will be found no material diﬁ'erence
between the event itself and his idea of it,
III. Whosoever may be adapted to any particular event
"' Moxon’s Mathematical Dictionary says, that the “ Centiloquium
“ is a book containing one hundred astrological aphorisms, common—
“ ly ascribed to Ptolemy, as its author, but by some to Hermes Tris
“ megistus.” This account, however, seems to be inaccurate; for
the Centiloquy attributed to Osiris's cotemporary and counsellor
(eulogized by Lilly as having been “one of the wisest of all mortal
men, and as ancient as Moysés”), is very different from that known
by the name of the ppm, or “ Fruit of the Tetrabiblos.” Whether
this latter Centiloquy be really the work of Ptolemy is another ques
tion; it has been usually edited as his, but some of the aphorisms
seed: to relate to horary questions only, which are not adverted to in
the Tetrabiblos, and there are others also which do not appear to
result from the doctrine of that book. y
APPENDIX. 22'5"
or pursuit, will= assuredly have the star indicative thereof
very potent in his nativity. _
' IV. Amind apt in knowledge will discover truth more
readily than one practised in the highest branches of science.
V. A skilful person, acduainted with the nature of the
stars, is' enabled to avert many of their eﬂ'ects, and to prepare
himself for those eﬁ‘ects before they arrive.
VI. It is advantageous to make choice of days and hours
at a time well' constituted by the nativity. Should the time
be adverse, the choice will in no respect avail, however fa
vourable an issue it may chance to- promise.
VII. The mingled inﬂuences of the stars can be under
stood by no one who has not previously acquired knowledge
'of the combinations and varieties existing in nature.
VIII. A sagacious mind improves the operation of the
heavens, as a skilful farmer, by cultivation, improves na
ture. a '
IX. In their generation and corruption forms are inﬂu
enced by the celestial forms, of which the framers of talis
mans? consequently avail themselves, by observing the in-'
grosses -of.1the stars thereupon.
X-. In the election of days and<honrs,_-make use of the
maleﬁcs,to the same moderate extent as the skilful physi
eiatr would use poisons in order to perform cures.
XI. A day and hour are not tobe‘eiected until the qua—
lity of the object proposed shall be known.
XII. Love and hatred prohibit the true accomplishment
ofjudgments; and, inasmuch as they lessen the most im
portant, so likewise they magnifythe most trivial things.
XIII. In every indication made'by the constitution of the
heavens, secondary stars, whether auxiliary or injurious
thereto, are also to he used.
XIV. The astrologer lwill be entangled in allabyrinth- of
error, when the seventh house and its lord shall be aﬁiicted.
XV. Signs cadent from the ascendant of any kingdom
G G
226 ' APPENDIX.
are the‘ ascendants-of that kingdom’s enemies” But they
angles and succedent houses are the ascendants of its friends.
It is the same in all doctrines and institutions.
XVI. When the beneﬁcs may be controuled in the eighth:
house, they bring mischief by means of good men :_ ifJ on
the other hand, they be well affected, they will prevent mis
chief. '
XVII. Give nojudgment as to the future life of an aged
person, until the number of years he may live shall have
been reckoned.
XVIII. If, whilea beneﬁc may ascend, both the lumi
naries should be in the same minute“, the native will be
equally and highly prosperous in all things which can befal
him. So, likewise, if the luminaries be mutually 0pp05ed‘
by the east and west. But the contrary effect will be pro
duced, should a maleﬁc be on the ascendant.
XIX. The efﬁcacy of purgation is impeded by the Moon’s
conjunction with Jupiter. ‘
XX. Pierce not.with iron that part of the body which
may be governed by the sign actually occupied by the Moon.
XXI. When the Moon may be in Scorpio or Pisces, pur
gation may be advantageously used, provided the lord of the _
ascendant be coupled with some star posited below the
earth. If he be coupled with a star placed above the earth,
the potion swallowed will be vomited up.
XXII. Neither put on not lay aside any garment for the
ﬁrst time, when the Moon may be located in Leo. And it
will be still worse to do so, should she be badly aﬂ'ected. v
XXIII. Aspects between the Moon and stars give the
native much activity; and, if the stars be in power, they
indicate an eﬁicient, bugif weak an inert, excitation to ac
tion. ’"
\
" Of the same degree and sign.
~'Aprnnnix. 227
XXIV. An eclips¢ of the luminaries,-'if’in the angles of
the nativity, or of an annual revolution, is noxious ; and thc
eﬁ'ects take place according to the space between the as
cendant and the place of eclipse. And as, in a solar eclipse,
> a year is reckoned for an hour, so likewise, in alunar eclipse,
~ a month is reckoned for an hour. I
XXV. The progression of a signiﬁcator, posited in the
mid-heaven, is to be made by 'right‘ ascension ; of another
posited in the ascendant, by the oblique ascension of the .
particular latitude.
XXVI. There is obvious concealment'in the case, if the
star signiﬁcative of any particular aﬂ'air be in conjunction
with the Sun, either under the earth or in a place foreign
'to its own nature. On the other hand, there is manifesta
tion, should the star be raised to elevation out of its depres
sion, and be located in its own place. '
XXVII. Venus gives pleasure to the native in that part
-of the body which may be ruled by the sign she occupies. It
is the same with other stars. ‘
XXVIII. When the Moon may not hold a familiarity
with two planets, as is desirable, care should be taken to con
nect her, if possible, with some ﬁxed star 'combining their
qualities. (_
' ‘ XXIX. The ﬁxed stars grant extremely: good fortune, un
connected with the understanding; but it is most com
monly marked by calamities, unless the planets also agree
in the felicity.
XXX. Observe the creation of the ﬁrst king of any dy
nasty; for if the ascendant at that creation should agree with
the ascendant of the nativity of the king’s son, he will
succeed his father. .
XXXI. When the star ruling over any kingdom shall
enter into a climacterical place, either the king, or some one
of the chief men of his kingdom, will die.
XXXII. Concord between two persons is produced by
.2123 - seremnuc.
an harmonious ﬁguration to? the stars, indicative of. the
matter whereby good will isconstituted, in the nativity of
either person. '
XXXIII. LOVe and hatred are Adismernible, sszwell from
the concord and diSCQrd 9f the luminaries, as from the
ascendants of both nativities; but obeying signs increase
good will. > .
XXXIV, If the lord of the place of the new Moon be in
an angle, he is indicative of the events liable to happen in
that month. .
XXXV. When the Sun arrives at the place of any star,
he excites the inﬂuence of that star in the atmosphere.
XXXVI. In .the foundation of cities, consider the ﬁxed
. stars which may seem to contribute thereto;~ but in. the
erection of houses, observe the planets. The kings efevery
city which has Mars in culmination will most commonly
perish by the sword. ~ ‘ '7 -
XXXVII. If Virgo or'Pisces be on the ascendant, the
native will create his own dignity ; but if Aries or Libra be
on the ascendant, lie-will cause his own death. The other '
signs are to be contemplated in the same way.
XXXVIII. Mercury, if established in either house of
Saturn, and in power, gives the native a speculative and in,
quisitive intellect : if in a house of Mars, and especially if in '
Aries, he gives eloquence, ‘
XXXIX. Aﬂiiction of the eleventh house, in the creation
of a king, indicates damage in his household and his trea
sury; aﬁ'lictipn of the second house denotes the detriment
of his subjects* wealth.
XL.»When the ascendant is oppressed by the maleﬁos,
the native will delight in sordid things, and approve i":
ﬂavoured odours, ‘
XLI'. Beware the aﬂiiction of the eighth house and its
lord, at a time of departure ; and that of the second house
and its lord, at a time of return.
APPENDIX. 229
XLII. Should a disease begin when the Moon may be
in a sign occupied at the birth by some maleﬁc, or in quar
tile or opposition to any such sign, such disease will be
most severe; and if the maleﬁc also behold the said sign,
it will be dangerous. On the other hand, there will be no
danger if the Moon be in a place held at the time of birth
by some bencﬁc. ~
I XLIII. The maleﬁc ﬁgures of a nation are strengthened
by adverse ﬁgurations of existing times.
XLIV. It is an evil case if the ascendant of a-sick per
son resist the ﬁguration of his own nativity; andif the time
should not bring up any beneﬁc.
XLV. If the ascendant, or principal signiﬁcatbrs, he not
inhuman signs, the native himself will be also estranged
from human'inature.
XLVI. In nativities much happiness is conferred by the
ﬁxed stars; and also by the angles of the new Moon, and
by the places of a kingdom’s Part of Fortune, should the
ascendant be found in any of them.
XLVII. If a maleﬁc in one nativity fall on the place of a
beneﬁt: in another nativity, he who has the beneﬁc will suffer
damage from him who has the maleﬁc. '
XLVIII. If the mid<heaven of a prince be the ascendant
of his subject, or if their respective signiﬁcators be con
ﬁgurated in a benevolent form, they will continue long in
separable. It will be the same, also, should the sixth house
ofa‘subject or servant be the ascendant of his prince or
master.
XLIX. If the ascendant of a servant be the mid-heaven
in his master’s nativity, the master will place so much con
ﬁdence in that servant as to be ruled by him.
L. Overlook none of the hundred and nineteen conjunc
tions 3 for on them depends the knowledge 0f worldly ope
rations, whether of generation or of corruption.
LI. Make the sign occupied by the Moon at the time of
230 ‘AP enumx.
- birth the sign ascending .at, the conception; and consider
that in which she may be'posited at the conception, or the
opposite one, as the sign ascending at the birth.
, LII. Men'of tall stature have their lords of nativity in
elevation, and their ascendants in the beginnings of signs;
but the lords of men of short stature will be foundvin decli
nation*. It must also be seen whether the signs be right or
' oblique. .
LIII. The lords of nativity of slight or thin men have
.no latitude, but those of stout or fat men have ; and, if the
latitude be south, the native will'be a'ctiveyif north, in
active.
LIV. In the construction of a building, the principal
rulers, if coupled with a star below the earth, will impede
the erection. ' 7
LV. Mars’s evil inﬂuence over ships is diminished if he
be neither in the mid-heaven nor in the eleventh house;
but if in either of those places, he renders the ship liable to
be captured by pirates. >And if the ascendant be afﬂicted by
any ﬁxed star of the nature of Mars, the ship will be burned.
LVI. While the Moon is in her ﬁrst quarter, withdrawing
from her conjunction with the Sun, the bodily humours
expand until her second quarter: in her other quarters they
decrease. _ '
LVII. If, during a sickness, the seventh-house and its
lord be afﬂicted, change the physician. 1
LVIII. Observe the place of an aspect, audits distance
from the ascendant of the year; for the event Will happen
when the profection may arrive thither. .
LIX. Before pronouncing that an absent person shall die,
observe whether he may not become intoxicated; before de
claring that he shall receive a wound, see whether he may not
' Orin obscure situations.
APPENDIX. 23]
be let blood; and before saying that he shall ﬁnd treasure,
examine whether he may not receive his own deposit; for I
the ﬁgures of all these things may be similar. ‘
LXI In cases of sickness, observe the critical days, and
the Moon’s progress in the angles of a ﬁgure of sixteen
sides. If those angles be well affected, it is favourable for
the invalid ; if they be aﬁiicted, unfavourable.
LXI. The Moon is signiﬁcative of bodily matters, which,
in respect of motion, resemble her.
LXlI. By marking exactly the- beginning of a conjunc
tion*, judgment may be made of the variation of the wea
ther in the ensuing month. It will depend upon the lord
of the angle of every ﬁgure, for he controuls the nature of
the atmosphere ; assuming also at these times the quality of
the existing weather.“ a '
LXIII. In the conjunction of Saturn and Jupiter, pro
nounce according to the nature of that one which may be
higher in elevation. Follow the same rule with other stars.
LXIV. After ascertaining the lord of the enquiry, see
what poWer he may have in the annual revolution, or in the
asc'endant ofthe new Moon; and pronounce accordingly.
LXV. .In the least conjunction, the diﬂ'erence of the \
mean conjunction, and in the mean conjunction the dif
'ference of the. greatest conjunctionf. " '
LXVI. Consider no profection'by itself alone, but make
reference also to the qualiﬁcations and impediments of the
stars.
LXVII. Years are diminished by, the .imbecility of the
receiver. _
LXVIII. A maleﬁc, when matutine, signiﬁes an acci.
dent; when vespertine, a disease.
“ Of the Sun and Moon. _
1- On this aphorism Partridge has said, “ how Ptolemy meant it to
“ be understood, I know not; and so I leave it." )
232 its-Pannier.
LXIX. The native’s sight will be impaired if the Moon
be opposed to the Sun, and joined with nebulous stars; and
' if the Moon be in the western angle, and, both the maleﬁc
stars in the eastern angle, the Sun being in an angle also,
thenative will, become blind. , - ‘
LXX. Insanity is produced; if- the,Moon have no con
nection with Mercury ;—and, if neither'of them be connected
with the ascendanr,‘ Saturn being in: occupation of that
angle by night, but Mars by day, especially if in Cancer,
Virgo,. or Pisces, a. daemoniac affection will be produced;v
LXXI. If both luminaries-may be in masculine signs, in- .
the nativities of males, their actions willl be consonant with
nature ;. but if so placed in the nativities of females, they
increase their. action. And Mars and Venus, ifmatutine,
incline to the masculine gender; if vespertine, to; the femi-~
nine.
LXXII. Matters of education are to be considered by the
ascending lords of tsiplicity; matters of life, by the lords
of- the conditionary luminary’s triplicity. ' .
LXX-III. If the Sun be found with the Gorgon-’s head
(Caput Medusa), and not aspected by any beneﬁt: star, and;
it‘. there be no benefic present in. the eighth house, and“ the
lord-of the conditionary luminary be opposed to Mars, or in.
‘ quartile to him, the native will be beheaded. If the lumi
nary culminate, his body will bemaimed or mangled ; and
if the aspect in quartile] be from Gemini or, Pisces, his
hands and feet will be amputated. .
LXXIV. Mars, if ascending, uniformly gives a soar in
the face.
LXXV.- If the Sun be in conjunction with the ldrd of
the ascendant, in Leo, and Mars have no; prerogative in the
ascendant,_and if there be no beneﬁc in, the house,
the native will be burned.
, LXXVl. If‘Ssturnihold the midi-heaven, and the con
ditionary luminary be opposed to him, the-native will-perish
APPENDIX. 233
in the ruins of buildings, provided the sign on the lower
heaven be an earthly sign; if it be a watery sign, he will be
drowned or suﬂ'ocated by water: if a human sign, he will be
strangled by men, or will perish by the halter or the scourge.
Should there, however, be a beneﬁc in the eighth house, he
will not suffer death, although he will be brought near it.
LXXVII. Profection _of the ascendant is to be made for
matters affecting the body ; of the Part of Fortune, for ex
trinsic circumstances ; of the Moon, for the connection be
tween the body and the spirit ; and of the mid-heaven, for
the employment or profession. _ I.
LXXVIII. A star often dispenses inﬂuence in a place in
which it has no prerogative, thus bringing unexpected advan
tage to the native. _ ,
LXXIX. Whoever has Mars in the eleventh house, does
not govern his master. '
LXXX. If Venus be in conjunction with Saturn, and
have any lord of house in the seventh house, the native will
be of spurious origin. ~ ’
LXXXI. Times are reckoned in seven ways ; viz. by the
space between two signiﬁcators; by the space betweentheir
mutual aspects; by the approach of oneto the otheri by
' the space between either of them and the place appropriated '
to the proposed event ,; by the descension of a star, with its
addition or diminution 5 I by the changing \of a signiﬁcator ;
and by the approach ofa planet to its place. ,
LX-XXII. When a ﬁgure may be equipoised, observe the
horoscope (or ﬁgure) at the new or full'moon, and, if that
also be equipoised, be not hasty [in giving judgement.
LXXXIIL The time of obtaining a grant indicates the
affection between the applicant and his prince; but the seat*
~ shews the nature of the ofﬁce 5—
* Or part of heaven indicating the grant.
H H
234 APPENDIX.‘
' LXXXIV. And if Mars be lord of the ascendant at the
time of entering on possession, and posited in the second
house, or coupled with the lord of the second, he brings
much mischief.
LXXXV. Should the 10rd of the ascendant be conﬁgu
rated with the lord of the second house, the prince will
spontaneously create many charges. -
LXXXVI. The Sun is the source of the vital power; the
Moon, of the natural power. Y
LXXXVII. Monthly revolutions are made in twenty
eight days, two hours and about eighteen minutes. Judge
ment is also made by some persons by means 'of the Sun’s
progress; that is to say, by his partile equations to that de
gree and minute which he might hold at the beginning.
LXXXVIII. In making profection of the part ofiFor
tune for a whole annual revolution, a space equal to that
between the Sun and Moon is to be reckoned from the
ascendant.
LXXXIX. Consider the grandfather’s affairs from the
seventh house, and the uncle’s from the sixth.
XC. Should the signiﬁcator be in aspect to the ascend
ant, the hidden event or object will correspond in its nature
with the ascendant ; but if the ascendant be not so aspected,
the nature of the event will accord with that of the place
in which the signiﬁcator is posited. _The lord of the hour
shews its colour; the place of the Moon its time; and, if
above the earth, it will be a novel thing; if below, old.
The part of Fortune indicates its quantity, whether long or
short. ‘The lords of the terms, and of the lower heaven and
mid-heaven, and of the Moon, shew its substance or value.
' XCI. Should the ruler of a sick person be combust, it is
an evil portent; and especiale if the part of Fortune be
aﬁlicted.
XCII. Saturn, if oriental, is not so highly noxious to a
sick person 3: nor Mars, if occidental.
APPENDIX. 235
XCIll. Judgement is not to be drawn from any ﬁgure
until the next conjunction shall have been considered: for
principles are varied'by every conjunction ; and therefore, to
avoid error, both the last and the next should be combined.
XCIV. The place of the more potent signiﬁcator indi
cates the thoughts of the inquirer.
XCV. The stars rising with the tenth house prove how
far the native may be ﬁtted to the occupation which he fol
lows.
XC-VI. In an eclipse, such signiﬁcations as are made
nearest the angles, shew the events decreed. The nature of
the stars in accordance with the eclipse, planets as well as
ﬁxed stars, and also the appearances co-ascending, are like
wise to be considered, andjudgement is to be given accord
ingly.
XCVII. The event inquired about will be speedily accom
plished, should the lord of the new or full Moon be in an
, angle. ~ -
XCVIII. Shooting stars, and meteors like ﬂowing hair,
bear a secondary part in judgements. '
XCIX. Shooting stars denote the dryness of the air; and,
if they are projected to one part only, they indicate wind
‘therefrom: if to various parts, they indicate diminution of
waters, a turbulent atmosphere, and incursions of armies.
C. If comets, whose distance is eleven signs behind the
Sun, appear in angles, the king of some kingdom, or one
of the princes or chief men of a kingdom, will die. If
in a suecedent house, the affairs of the kingdom’s treasury
will prosper, but the governor or ruler will be changed. If
in a cadent house, there will be diseases and sudden deaths.
And ifcomets he in motion from the west towards the cast, a
foreign foe will invade the country : if not in motion, the
foe will be provincial, or domestic.
END OF THE CENTILOQUY.
236 APPENDIX.
_ No. am.
The Zodiacal Planisphere.
Tan Reader is desired to refer to the annexed Plate, con
taining diagrams of the Zodiacal Planisphere, which has been
spoken of in the Note in p. 146.
FIG. 1 is the Planisphere adjusted for the northern lati
tude of 30° 22’ (where the longest day consists of feurteen
equatorial hours), agreeably to the “ Exempliﬁeation” given
by Ptolemy in Chap. 15, Book 3. It represents that portion
ofthe coalestial sphere which is contained between the tropics:
the central horizontal line is the equator; the curved line
extending longitudinally from east to west is the ecliptic;
the central perpendicular line is the meridian,-or cuspbf the
10th house ; the other short lines, cutting the equator trans
versely, are the cusps of the other houses ; that of the ﬁrst
house being the eastern horizon ; that of the 7th, the west
ern horizon. Hence, the distance from the 1st house to
the meridian, or from the meridian to the 7th house, shews
the semi-diurnal arc of any parallel of declination in the
ecliptic; and the distance of the 7th house to the 4th, or
from the 4th to the 1st, shews the semi-nocturnal are. The
distance from the cusp of one house to that of the next,
taken on the same parallel, is also equal to two temporal
hours ; thus, for instance, in the latitude above quoted, the
semi-diurnal arc of 0° n is 6 h. 50 m., or l02° 39' of the
equator; consequently the diurnal temporal hour is equal
to one equatorial hour and eight minutes, or to 17° 6' of
the equator.
In his ﬁrst example, ’Ptolemy directs 0‘ ‘Y‘ to be placed ‘
on the ascendant, so that the beginning of k? may be on
the mid-heaven : 0° II must, therefore, fall on the point A,
distant from the mid-heaven 147° 44'-of the equator, as
arrmwmx. 237
measured by the line AB; because every point in thesphere
always preserves one and the same parallel with the equator;
and 0° II, in passing to the mid-heaven, must proceed
along the line AB. In the present case, however, it is re
quired to; know‘ how long 0° it will be in coming 'to the
ascendant, the given position of0° '1'. Now 0° 1; will be on
the ascendan’t when it arrives at the point C ; therefore the
distance from A to C is the amount of the prorogation be
tween 0° 't‘ (when posited on the ascendaut) and 0° i1,
and it is equal to 45° 5" of the equator.v In the second
example, 0° ‘7' is placed on the mid-heaven, which position
must be at D, so that 0° u must necessarily be at E; and
the distance from E to B, equal to 57° 44' of the equator, is
the prorogation between 0° 1r and 0“ u, when 0° w' is on
the mid-heaven. In the third example, 0° m is supposed
to been the 7th house, or descending, at F, so that as is on
the midL‘heaVen, and 0° II at the point G, in advance of
the mid-heaven 32° 16' of the equator, as shewn by the
distance BGQ Now it is required to bring 0° 1: to the 7th
house (the place of 0° sv'), and it will be there on arriving
at H, distantllfrom B 102? 39' of the equator; but as 0° ﬁ' ‘
is already atZG, the distance from G to H, equal to 70° 23’
of the equator, is the amount of the prorogation between
0° m and 0° 11, when 0° q' is on the 7th house. The
fourth example places 0° an at I, three temporal hours past
the meridian; 0° 11 therefore falls on the point K, at the
distance of 13 equatorial degrees before the meridian or and;
heaven, and will be three temporal hours past the meridian
(the position of 0° qr) on arriving at L, distant 5'1 equatorial
degrees from the mid-heaven: the whole distance from K
(the 'ﬁrst position of 0° 11) to L, its second position, equal
to 64’degrees of the equator, is therefore the prorogation
between 0° ‘7‘ and 0° 11, when 0° ‘Y' is past the meridian at
the distance of three temporal hours.—Ptolemy has also
instanced two other positions for 0° qr ; viz. at two tem
23S xrrnunrx. ,‘i
poral hours‘ past the meridian, and at two temporal hours
before the occidental angle; or, in other words, on the cusp
of the 9th house, and on that of the 8th. Now, if 0° qr be
on the cusp of the 9th house,'it must be at M, and 0° It will
be at N, distant 62 equatorial degrees from Q, which is also
on the cusp of the 9th. HO" ‘1‘ be on the cusp of the 8th,
it must be at O, and 0° n will be at P, distant 66 equatorial
degrees from R, which is also on the cusp of the 8th : these
two several numbers of degrees will be the respective proroga
tions between 0° ‘10 and 0° II, when 0° ‘Y' is placed on the
9th and 8th houses. .
Ptolemy’s “ Exempliﬁcation” has been followed thus mi
nutelyin order to shew how perfectly Mr. Ranger's invention is
adapted to assist (if not to supersede) arithmetical calculation;
for, after the Planisphere has once been accurately laid down,
a line drawn parallel to the equator, from the signiﬁcator to
the promittor, or to the promittor’s pole of position, and
measured by degrees of the equator, will accomplish the
whole operation of ascertaining the amount of prorogation.
' Frc. 2 is the Equator extended, in plano, on a scale pro
portionate to the planispheres in FIGS. 1 and 3 : it is divided
into 360 degrees, and into equal time, as measured by the
24 hours of the earth’s daily rotation on its axis, and by
smaller portions of four minutes each, corresponding with
degrees of the equator.
FIG.3 is the Planisphere set for the latitude of Southern
Britain, 51° 30’ N., where the longest day is 16 h. 30 m., the
semi-diurnal arc of 0° 11 being consequently 7 h. 52 m., or
118° of the equator, and its diurnal temporal hour equal to
one hour and nearly nineteen minutes of equatorial time, or
to 19° 40’ of the equator.
In applying Ptolémy’s examples, given in Chap. 15,
Book 3, to this latitude, it will follow that, when 0° or may
APPENDIX. 239
be on the ascendant, 0° 11 will be at A, and will subsequent
ly arrive at the ascendant at C, after the passage of 29° 43’
of the equator. When 0° ‘Y‘ may be on the mid-heaven at
D, 0° 11 will .be at E, and will arrive at B, on the mid
heaven, after the passage of 57° 44' of the equator, as in
FIG. 1. When 0° up may be on the 7th house, at F, 0° 11
will be at G, and will come to the 7th house, at H, after
the passage of 85° 45' of the equator. If 0° up be three
temporal hours past the meridian, at I, 0‘ II would be at K,
again 13 equatorial degrees before the meridian, as in FIG. 1,
and will be three temporal hours past the meridian, a posi
tion similar to that assumed for 0° 1r, on arriving at L,
distant from the mid-heaven 59 equatorial degrees; thus
making the whole distance, from K to L, 72 equatorial de
grees.-—-If 0° ‘Y' be on the 9th house, at M, 0° 11 will be at
N, distant from Q (also on the 9th house) about 67 equa
torial degrees. If 0° m be on the 8th house, at 0, 0° n
will be at P, distant from R (also on the 8th house) about
76 equatorial degrees.
By taking the trouble to calculate the distances between
the several positions given by Ptolemy, the Reader may sa
tisfy himself of the sufﬁciency of this Planisphere for the
purpose for which it was ﬁrst projected 5 viz. for the more
expeditious measurement of the arcs of direction.‘ The
Tables of Ascensions, extracted from the Almagest, in p. 223,
will shew that the arcs, as measured in FIGS. 1 and 2 of the
plate, exactly tally with‘the amounts of distance obtained by
calculating arithmetically, according to the respective lati»
tudes, as quoted in the Tables.
The slight view which has been here given of the Zodiacal
Planisphere invented by Mr. Ranger, must not be considered
as pretending to offer a complete idea of its powers: they
are so manifold and various, that another volume would be
240 ‘ APPENDIX.
required to detail them fully;qu itlhes now been used
only in order to give a better illustration of Ptolemy’s ex
amples of the spaces of prorogation than more words can
do. To persons conversant with the mathematical part of
astronomy,,the facility with which a complete representation
of zodiacal latitude, declination, the poles of position, cre
pusculine circles, and other phenomena, may be. made by
this Plani'sphere, will be. sufﬁciently obvious from the accom
panying Figures.
FINIS.
7 MA65
1
Davis and Dickson; Printers, 5t. Martink-le-Grnnd; London.
‘\
