{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1angela_e_nde.html","mytitle":"Angela E NDE 5360","mylang":"de"}
          	        Angela E NDE 5360  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Angela E NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2820 Angela E NDE 5360  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I have already posted an experience recently about remembering my Pre-Birth experience. I wanted to post this experience also because it is all related. I have not had any other experiences.  This was the only other one.  I remember clearly playing in the sand box.  I was with other children outside at the Childcare Center my mother took my sister and me to while she worked. I felt really hot.  It was mid-summer and the outside temperature was apparently very high. I was just a 4-year-old child and all I knew was that I was hot and getting dizzy but continued to play. I also remember getting really angry at another child that was getting in my way and taking my spot or toys in the sand box. I felt very enraged. I got hotter by the minute and angry too. Then I passed out and fell. My head hit the edge of the wooden sand box and I had a large scrape on the top of my right leg.  What I remember is that, instantly, I was sitting in a small room. I felt great relief and was not at all hot any more. I felt no pain or discomfort at all.  The room was foggy. I just sat there feeling relieved and then realized that there was someone else in there too. They said to me, 'you are not supposed to be here.'  I was a little scared at that time and thought I was going to get in trouble. There was a door there; it was closed. I remember someone opened it and I was so excited to see that person. They seemed full of love and kindness. That person that opened the door made me feel safe. They called for someone else to come through it. They then closed it back.  I remember sitting there and getting a bit anxious for it to be my turn to go through it. It seemed to be taking a while but I have no idea about any time and I became bored although I felt great - no pain, no heat.  

Finally, it was my turn. He opened the door for me. I was excited and noticed activity on the other side through the door but there was NO activity in that waiting room.  After I went through the door, everything becomes vague about the experience except I remember they said it was not my time; I had not been on Earth long enough and had just gotten there. I had to go back. There was some conversation about my anger toward the other child while playing and was given some advice about that. That is all. Then I woke up in the arms of a childcare worker. The school said I must have nearly had a heat stroke. They took me in and laid me on a cot, called my mom and let me rest there.  I felt in my heart that I was not allowed to tell the teachers or anyone about where I went.  I just had a feeling and knew I was not to mention it. I was only 4 years old and my thoughts were this, 'I was ashamed for getting so mad at the other child in the sand box. I thought they would not let me stay on earth if I said anything to anyone about it. I was glad to be back with my Mom and sister on earth and didn't want to leave them.' I never said a word to anyone until now. I have this vivid memory and the one I posted about my pre-birth memory but I have no others. 

God bless us all!

Angela

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  July 1967

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident  'Playing in sand box at childcare center, got too hot, fainted, fell, passed out.'  'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   I felt so very hot and I was getting sick and dizzy. I was extremely over heated while playing in a sand box at a Childcare Center.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   The entire time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The entire time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     No time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It seemed foggy in the room; a bit hard to see and kind of boring looking.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Another person was in the room. They said I wasn't supposed to be there. I thought they were rude for saying that to me, and then, someone magnificent open-ended the door to get someone else before returning later to get me. Once they got me it becomes vague.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   There was light beyond the door. You could sense activity and see light when the door was opened, but not in the waiting room?

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Memory seems blocked or limited once I went through the door except for some memories of conversation about having to return and being repremended for my anger while playing in the sand box. But I remember being Loved there.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt relief from heat and I didn't feel tired. I felt as if I was not wanted there. I wondered what was going on. I felt excited about the person who opened the door.  I got bored and anxious and I thought I might make someone upset by being there.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     After going through the door, I remember communication/conversation vaguely. It was something about needing to go back, that I haven't been there long enough, that I was not supposed to come back yet, and some advice about getting so angry at the other child while playing in the sand box.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     In a room, a small waiting room. The door was closed. We had to wait for someone to come and get us to go through it.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   I was 4 years old.  Taken to Baptist Church.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     Because of my memories, I know we are to live here and learn. The most important thing is to love and care for one another. We are to care for the Earth. We are not to do anything that hurts ourselves or others. When we learn enough we may not have to come back to Earth and will move on to Higher Levels.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     Because of my memories, I know we are to live here and learn. The most important thing is to love and care for one another. We are to care for the Earth. We are not to do anything that hurts ourselves or others. When we learn enough we may not have to come back to Earth and will move on to Higher Levels.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   Much of experience/memory seems blocked.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The person that opened the door to get me was wonderful. I was encouraged to come back and I was asked if I wanted to. I said yes. I was reprimanded lovingly about getting so angry.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     At the age of 4 years old, I decided to never tell anyone. I felt in my heart I was not supposed to and was being faithful to my real home by not telling. I knew it was there, I knew it happened, it did not scare me, but I was happy that I was allowed to come back to earth to be with my mom and sister and enjoy the earth.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I remember too many details and they correlate with my pre-birth memories as well.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1angela_e_nde.html