{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1angel_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Angel S NDE 2854","mylang":"de"}
          	        Angel S NDE 2854  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Angel S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						980  Angel S NDE  2854  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I was watching a movie with my son when suddenly I started having problems with my speech, movements and balance, in a frantic way I asked him for help. Several minutes passed, at this time I was out of my body because I could see all the efforts of neighbors who were trying to revive me. I could see the paramedics, policeman, firemen and neighbors all gathering around that body lying there, the funny thing was I was watching the body but like other spectators.

My recollection is that I could move freely everywhere. I felt very calm. I remembered looking down to my body. There was a very dark room. There I found two deceased neighbors, which I appreciated and loved them very much. I was so happy to find them there that I tried to hug them but they dispersed, like what happens with smoke in the air. I made a few attempts and the same thing happened. They communicated with me with their mind, never spoke one word. Time and language don't exist there. I received many messages and had a recount of all the damage people who I care for, inflicted on me. This was repeated over and over like when it happened I was not aware or attentive.

I cannot remember when I slipped into a coma but one thing I'm sure is that everything was very real. In the last three years I been in recovery with my body - doctors diagnose I won't be able to see or walk. In the messages, I received one was specific about my recuperation physically and some other people's newly acquire conditions. I am still confused but this website showed me many more people experiencing NDEs.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 11/30/2003  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness      Cerebral Vascular Accident  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Strokes.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   My level of consciousness and alertness was like I could be, see or hear everywhere.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Right before the paramedics arrived.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     Definite time was altered.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My field of vision was very poor after the stroke but the perception of things and people increase.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing increase in clarity, ability to recognize source of sound, pitch and loudness.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I try to force myself but do not remember.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Two of my mother's deceased close friends, lots of things but most important 'Do not lie'.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I do not remember.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calm; peace.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Remembered many past events     Experienced lots of moments of people taking advantage of my kindness. I am very confused because I don't know if the information was for me to take revenge or just to know.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From the world's future   

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I practice more religious beliefs.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I practice more religious beliefs.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   A few things I Know will happen but not when.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Now I'm divorced and very aware of people's emotions and feeling toward others.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   After the strokes I end up mute and blind my communication skills were limited. Everything was there but I could not communicate.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I see scenes that I sometimes cannot explain.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        This being making sure that I communicate 'Don't lie'.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Not long, their reaction was surprise and I don't know if they are influenced.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Why it happens I still confuse, but one thing I am certain is that your behavior in this earth is related to your next experience.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Today I have more questions.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Even if you have a hard time to believe all these stories remember that your behavior will alter everything, including your next life.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1angel_s_nde.html