{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1angel_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Angel G SDE 9576","mylang":"de"}
          	        Angel G SDE 9576  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Angel G SDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification SDE  						5158 Angel G SDE 9576  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    This is about my wife, Vera Gonzalez, who passed on May 7th, 2016, and the attending physician assistant/NP-C and I witnessed a light orb leave her body within minutes of dying.  A concentrated white orb-light came out of her chest through the sternum, rose and hovered momentarily and then departed the room while accelerating.  I thought I was imagining things until the physician assistant asked me if I saw the light.  He said he had seen it before and that it was Vera's spirit.  He also said he sensed a great deal of holiness in the room (as I did too).  I had been praying the last rites to Vera before her death.  I am Christian but of Jewish descent (Sephardic) and the nurse practitioner is Jewish.  Vera was a strong, faithful Christian.  

Days prior to dying, Vera told me and our children that an angel had visited her.  She had gone through a tunnel that opened up into light.  There she had seen her deceased relatives including her dad, brother, and grandmother.  She pleaded with the angel to let her live to be with our children, but the angel told her she could not live and her time was near.  She begged and pleaded so he then showed her the future of our children and mine.  Several of the things she told me were to come have come true.  She was not allowed to share the details of my future and passing, but I inferred from her love.  She shared the future of our children and things I must do, which I am doing.  She pleaded so hard to live that the angel came back a second time and told her she would be allowed to live in between the here and there as an angel watching over our children.  

I have been travelling and telling this to whomever will listen including the dying and clergy.  I have shared it with Jewish rabbis, many Christian clergy of different denominations, Catholic, Muslim, and others.  My life was changed forever.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 05/17/2016  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness        Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   terminal cancer  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Vera described seeing things outside of her bedridden body.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Vera was in pain and suffering for months prior to dying.  During her experience with an angel twice, her alertness was very high and painless.  She smelled sweet flowers or roses and was free of pain during her engagement with the angel and her deceased family.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Vera was conscious and alert up until seven days before dying.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Vera said that in her engagements with the spirits, that everything seems to come into her mind at once  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Vera talked about very vivid experiences and could sense and hear our talk between me and our children even when we were away.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Vera exclaimed she could hear and sense things that sounded unbelievable.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Vera said the tunnel was quickly opened up and shadows of people standing were there waiting... until they approached her one by one revealing her dad, brother, grandmother...who had passed many years prior.  They assured her and told her they loved her and she did the same.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     deceased father, brother, grandmother  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Through the unearthly light, a spirit being... an angel appeared to Vera twice.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     A loving, warm, safe place  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Vera was strong and confident.  At peace until she died.  She was in pain, but communicated great confidence and faith.  All the questions I answer throughout this survey are an expression of how Vera felt and what she expressed (not me).  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Vera conveyed a clear understanding about our existence  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Vera told me the angel and her revisited her past..  Vera had done so much good for the poor and sick on Earth during her life.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Vera saw the future of all of us.  She shared what she was allowed to and told me some areas where she was explicitly told she could not share.  It was chilling.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will  Vera pleaded to live to be with her children.  The angel showed her where she was going but later changed it when she kept pleading to remain as an angel-like being herself.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am more accepting of different beliefs and see where there is commonality  

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian     

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I grew up learning in Jewish and Christian settings and read the Bible, Tora, and even the Koran.  My understanding of faith and death did not show me what happened to Vera and the light even existed.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I sense the soul beyond the physical body in all that I touch.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   an angel appeared to Vera and foretold her passing soon and also told her about the future of our children and me.  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     The clarity of our presence in the universe and no sense of space limitations  

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     It was not stated, but the light was conveyed is God and we are part of the light... (I still don't understand that.)  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     not only was this the case, the message I was to convey to the church congregation was about this... My talk during Vera's service was videoed and people seemed stunned.  There were eight friends in the service that stated they also heard similar messages and testaments from Very before she died.  It was about going forth in faith and helping people more and to prepare for what was/is coming.  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     Vera was told and shown that she would continue to be in a different form, with the light  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I fear that my time is short on Earth and that I may not fulfill my mission or do whatever it is I am supposed to do with this knowledge.  I have been afraid to share more openly and been very selective in who I tell, but as time passes I realize it doesn't matter.  That the effort I am making to help others is all that matters.  I feel like passages have been opened to me to not be fearful of how I am treated and not to worry about how I am going to die.  I walk the streets and shake every hand as if they were the last and that everyone matters (even when they seem to not deserve it).  I feel as if I will meet them again.  I walk with no fear now.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have been more loving to everyone  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Seven years later, and it is still emotional for me to express this experience.  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  Much of what I say and more was shared at the moment, videotaped, and I wrote in a diary the events as they occurred.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Love is real to me now  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have shared these experiences with hundreds of people around the world, of all faiths and non-faith.  I have been pleasantly surprised at the willingness to hear it and not to judge me.  In many more cases, especially with the dying, they have had skepticism but believing.  Some have told me that they were not good or did not proscribe to a religion.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I was struck by lightning when I was a child and had a NDE but not like Vera. In my experience, I had seen my body as I floated above until they resuscitated me.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I'd recommend sharing the questionnaire and my answers to make sure I provided all the information and to see if there is anything that can be improved.         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1angel_g_nde.html