{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1andy_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Andy B NDE 2864","mylang":"de"}
          	        Andy B NDE 2864  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Andy B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1072  Andy B NDE  2864  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  				  It was a normal night like any other. I went to sleep to my room at around 11:00 pm. Shortly after some sleep I opened my eyes (I do not know how long it was between I went to sleep until I opened my eyes). When I opened them, I knew I was dead. I knew that if I were sleeping I could be waking up in the other edge. I knew I was a spirit, I felt it real. The first thing I thought was, 'After all I am dead!' I felt in that moment a big scare due to I always wanted to die - I had never clung onto life or feared death.

When it happened I thought, 'Now what do I do? Where do I go?' I did not see anything; I was just into a kind of emptiness with light. I did not see any paths; I did not see people, anything. It was then I asked God to help me, to not take the wrong way, and if it was possible to send me my deceased sister to welcome me and to show me the way. According to my beliefs, I was sure that our relatives or familiar people come for us and guide us where we have to go. Nothing or no one appeared, so I started to 'walk alone' and just by thinking, I was going to where I wanted.

All was like mental, I knew I did not have a physical body, I felt so light. However, I started feeling a thirsty sensation and I was anguish because I did not know how long I had to 'walk'. I thought, 'As I walk God will give me more thirst.' In that instant I started to feel anguish for the thirsty sensation when a crystal-clear water stream appeared at my feet. It was transparent I could see the bed of the stream; it had rounded stones all in the bed instead of ground. When I saw the water so clean that I knew it was fresh, in that instant the sensation of thirst disappeared and I just thought to follow that stream to see where it went.

When I thought about that, it was like transporting by only wishing that with my mind, I arrived at the end of the stream that was very narrow. I bumped into a strong ray of light like an intense white ray. I even had to close my eyes until I was not dazzled. Before I opened my eyes, I was thinking that God was that light. While I was opening my eyes, until I could penetrate that light, what I saw was the Virgin of Guadalupe as if made of pure gold. She was shining like the light of the sun.

The sparks of her layer were like light sparks. Her rays were shining intensely all around. It was pure light, really beautiful! I was standing there just looking at her for a moment until I saw her face for a moment. Without telling me anything, I remember that I turned down to see what I had left in life, my fellow beings. I saw the image of my mother with my two sisters together. I started analyzing them to know what could they be feeling with my death. In that time I had some issues with my mom because she was so hard with me and when I saw her I was telling myself: 'She does not love me so I do not want to go back and live for her.' Then I saw my sisters and I thought, 'They are nice and they love me but I know they are going to be fine without me.'

In that moment, I turned back to the Virgin of Guadalupe. I saw her face to face and she told me, looking at me so tender, and with a sweet voice, that I had to go back because it was not my time. I told her 'NO, NO, NO, please I am here.' I told her 'Tell him [referring to God] to let me stay here, I do not want to go back, please!' She repeated to me, 'You have to go back; this is not your time.' I continued with my No, No, please! When I started to listen, it was like if I were moving away and the echo of the voice of the Virgin and my voice like going away. I felt like attracted to the inside of a tunnel.

Suddenly I opened my eyes where I was sleeping, but when I opened my eyes, I was still looking at the golden light. It was like dazzling, like when someone looks at the light bulb for a long time, then looks at the darkness, and still sees a 'light'. In this way, I woke up in the semi-darkness of my room and I started to cry because of the emotion.

I felt so excited. I felt a lot of peace and tranquility and when it was getting light, my sight was more perfect, all I saw was clearer and cleaner than normal. I felt so much peace, happiness, love. I felt other person so able to forgive everything and to do not get angry for nothing. The only bad was that I forgot to see the exact date, what day it was, so I could celebrate all the years of that day as if it was like the date when I was born again.

After three years of the experience my mom died - we fixed all our differences - thanks to God. I had the opportunity to be okay with my mom and to show her how much I loved her. We forgave each other and we were in peace. For that, I give thanks to God for the new opportunity to live that He gave me - for letting me be with my mom and take care of her in her last days of life by my side.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1996  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Heart attack     Estando dormido  Other Estando dormido se detuvo mi corazón  Heart attack.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was conscious of everything and my vision was perfect.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       In the moment when I opened my eyes and I knew I was dead.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     Time and space does not exist there. We can be transported there only wishing it with the mind.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I saw intensely and well, all was bright and looked perfectly clean because of the clearness and brightness.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was like emptiness with light, I could not see any shape, I was only in the light - but it was a normal white light.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw only the Virgin of Guadalupe.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   An intense and bright light. I was like a ray that blinded me because of its white brightness.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Sólo vi ese arroyito y a la virgen.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       See narrative.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     I only saw my mom and my two sisters. When I looked at them I was thinking what would they will be feeling with my death - if I stayed there were I went when I had that experience.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Católico  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Católico  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   After the experience I felt spiritually stronger. I felt more mature and I learnt to help people who suffer or are needy, giving them consolation, counsel, etc. I shared my faith with them. And I know I had been transforming some people whose faith was not strong in them.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am more quiet and patient. I learnt to forgive and to be happy with what I have. My biggest happiness is to help the needy people. I am not materialist and I am ready to die when God calls me.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have personal premonitions, things that I dream and that happen afterwards. When I have an issue, I dream it before. I have an intuition very developed. When I see a known person, at the short time of knowing them I know how they are, if they are nice or mad, and I am often right. I have a lot of perception and strength.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        To see the Virgin was unforgettable, I did not expect it. I expected to see my deceased little sister - I never expected to see a Light Being.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I always share it to help others to make stronger their faith in God and in the Virgin. Also, to help others, so they stop fearing death, and so that they be less materialistic and be more spiritualists. So they believe more in God and they can make stronger their faith.

  I share it too often when someone shares with me that they are suffering or that they do not know what to do with their life. That is the way I can help them or at least to give them consolation.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I saw it immediately after I opened my eyes.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was real since I opened my eyes in my bed and I had never doubted about what I lived. I know it was not a dream, and maybe my heart stopped working for some minutes or seconds, I do not know. I have never known how much time passed between the time I went to sleep and the time when I woke up in the spiritual world.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Thank you for letting me be part of this wonderful website where people like me have the privilege to share these marvelous near death experiences and share them with all of you.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I enjoyed this entire questionnaire.

  I wish there could be more websites like this one. It is complete! And full of enrichment experiences.

  I wish you could make TV programs about the experiences; they are marvelous and leave us a lot of hope in a better life when we pass away from this one.

  Thank you!!!     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1andy_b_nde.html