{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1andrew_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Andrew S NDE 2829","mylang":"de"}
          	        Andrew S NDE 2829  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Andrew S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						966  Andrew S NDE  2829  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I was fifteen and in the ninth grade. During the afternoon of April 15, I noticed my lips and ears felt swollen. The swelling continued into the evening. When my parents took me to the emergency room I was given Benadryl and sent home. By the next morning, my entire body was swollen. I tried to get dressed, but kept passing out. I was in and out of consciousness as my parents rushed me to our doctor. The last things that I remember were being carried into an examining room and put on the table and hurting very much.

I heard a rushing sound and then became aware of the room around me. I was looking down at myself and my parents, who were holding one another and looked frightened. I remember feeling an indescribable sense of peace - it was so profound and complete it seemed as if I was swimming in it - as well as feeling very alive, with no pain. I realized I was dying, but I felt so calm and relaxed about it! I thought for a moment that mom and dad would be very sad, but I knew that they would be all right, and that we would be together again. I became conscious of a presence near me; it felt feminine and very, very gentle. It, she, spoke to me, but I don't recall much of what she said. I remember becoming aware of how much I knew, as if I understood the workings of the universe. I heard the presence tell me that all things would be plain to me. I then felt, as much as saw, a light ahead, intense but not painful. I felt an overwhelming desire to go into it. At the same time, I was aware of the doctor coming into the room and telling my parents he was giving me a shot of adrenaline to keep my heart going. Everything faded, and I became conscious of being in my body and in pain. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 'April 16, 1972'  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Allergic reaction       'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Allergic reaction to something that was never determined.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I remember thinking that I knew so much about everything, and that everything would soon be knowable.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Soon after I was out of my body.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual     Time seemed irrelevant. My parents later said that only a minute or two passed before I was given the injection; I seemed to experience so much more than I could have in such a short time.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     'Vision' seems only partially accurate. I felt that I was seeing my parents, the room; and myself but it wasn't exactly the same as visual sight. It was as if I was 'seeing' the reality of the time and place.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I was aware of another person or being; it was feminine, and she spoke to me. It was a feeling of presence, not really 'seeing.' She told me everything would be alright, and that (when I thought about having so much knowledge) I would know the secrets of the universe.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I became aware of a light that seemed to have been there all along - bright but not painful.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, Love, Joy.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Episcopalian  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     My father was an Episcopal priest, so I grew up in the church. This experience has made my faith very real and immediate. And at times when I've doubted the tenets of the faith, I think back on this experience and the doubts fade.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Roman Catholic  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     My father was an Episcopal priest, so I grew up in the church. This experience has made my faith very real and immediate. And at times when I've doubted the tenets of the faith, I think back on this experience and the doubts fade.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I felt I knew so much, and would know so much more.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I believe I was visited by my deceased father in a dream, and I've felt my deceased sister from time-to-time. Several times I've had inexplicable foreboding shortly before a serious event occurs.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The sense of peace and the presence of the other being or person have taken away the fear of death. I find myself anticipating being there again.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my parents about it four or five years later and my wife shortly after we met (about seven years after the incident). They all responded very positively. Later, my father had two experiences as well. I don't think they were really influenced by my experience.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     For days afterwards, I felt very calm and happy. Life seemed to be less fragmented and chaotic.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Even after all these years, the experience is as vivid as the day after it happened. I'm often able to lie quietly and feel the echoes of it even now. It's been a source of comfort to me over the years.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   Insofar as I am able to recall the feelings, thoughts, and emotions when I meditate or am quiet, yes. There haven't been any externally-caused experiences, though.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1andrew_s_nde.html