{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1andrew_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Andrew R NDE 3469","mylang":"de"}
          	        Andrew R NDE 3469  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Andrew R NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1537 Andrew R NDE 3469  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My car had flipped and while it was happening I heard glass breaking and other noises but then it went calm. It was different from being knocked out, I then woke up, or believed I woke up, and climbed out of the vehicle and to the top of the hill where I had flipped. I then tried to stop passing cars but no one seemed to see me. I then went back into the car because it was still running so I thought I should turn it off, that's when I saw what I believed was my own body. 

At that time, I woke up climbed out of the car again and up the hill. That's when a passing motorist stopped to help at which time I seemed to feel as though I didn't want her help, I felt angry and mad. And ever since that day I seem to be more violent and snap for no reason sometimes. I believe this event brought out some sort of dark side in me; it has even cost me a relationship of four years. My anger and violence has even got me in trouble with the police. And up to this event I never did the things that I have done since then in regards to the violent behavior.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  April 28 2002

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  AccidentDirect head injury    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was in a car accident.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I first got out of the car before returning to it. After I woke the second time I was more dazed and confused than I was when I believe I was out of my body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Everything was slower and dark.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was brighter and more vivid.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Things seemed to be quieter than what they should have been.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     But it wasn't the white light others see, it was dark and cloudy like kind of looked evil.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was scared but yet seemed to be relieved.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   none

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Sadly to say I seem to be darker and I have even visited devil worshiping websites and I honestly don't know why.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   none

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Sadly to say I seem to be darker and I have even visited devil worshiping websites and I honestly don't know why.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes As stated above I lost a girlfriend of four years because of my anger that I have after the wreck.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was just like I wasn't really me I felt different and since I was alone when it happened it's kind of hard to describe.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I seems as though I can predict little things, not big life changing events.  I get feelings of things that are going to happen and more times than not, they do happen.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     At first I didn't want to believe what had happened but as time went on I just knew that it was real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     My feeling towards the events haven't changed since I kind of snapped the reality that it was real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I just really wish I knew why I seem to be more violent and angry now.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1andrew_r_nde.html