{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1andrew_r_fde.html","mytitle":"Andrew R FDE 23012","mylang":"de"}
          	        Andrew R FDE 23012  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Andrew R FDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification FDE  			3892 Andrew R FDE 23012  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was flying past other car on freeway shoulder. Very dark outside, in open desert area. Saw chainlink fence to right, thought, well, at least I won't kill anybody else, and turned car into fence. As car spun through fence and about 270 degrees (so front wheels ended up running against edge of shoulder) with dust flying all around (on sand off freeway), suddenly was above my body, looking down. Saw interior of car, myself in driver's seat, dark outside of windows, but inside of car was a glowing golden light, and sensation was of absolute peacefulness and warmth. As tires hit edge of shoulder and car stopped, suddenly back in body and looking out window, dust still flying around, normal ambient lighting in car. Two CHP officers came to assistance, wasn't able to explain whether had fallen asleep in car earlier or what had happened. As it turned out, not too far ahead on shoulder of freeway was a stopped truck with no lights on that I would have plowed into if I had not spun off into fence.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1986

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident.       Not sure, but had apparently fallen asleep while driving on freeway at night. Woke to find self barreling down on another car. Able to pull onto freeway shoulder, avoiding other car.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Did not see form or appearance apart from body, but distinctly saw physical body below me in car seat.

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Very concentrated. As passed by car (actually, van) in front of me on shoulder of road, went through time-expansion sense where it felt like I was just inching past other car. Once out of body experience started, felt very much aware.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Certainly had altered sense of time expansion immediately before the out of body experience as got past the car I could have plowed into. Actually, given the actual physical events, yes, time must have remained expanded while out of body in car.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Nothing tunnel-like, though. But definitely the interior of the car appeared as if brightly lit with gold light.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Yes, I guess, in that I saw the heightened golden light inside the car and felt a very physical sense of warmth.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Pretty much as already described.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Yes, of profound peacefulness, warmth, and acceptance/resignation to situation.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     Yes in the sense that I was still within the car or at least perceived no obstruction to view of myself below from the car roof.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Have always been highly interested in religion and belief systems; a seeker type. So this was integrated into the evolution of my religious attitude as all of my life experiences are.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Have always had some psychic abilities. Did not practice them for many years, but within past year revived some practice with very quick and more immediate results and heightened sensitivity.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Best part was the tremendous feeling of peacefulness and warmth. No worst part (well, except, I suppose, the moments flying past the car I could have hit).

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Have not shared with many, but those with whom I have have been accepting. One shared an out of body experience with me after my telling my story.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1andrew_r_fde.html