{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1andrew_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Andrew C NDE 135","mylang":"de"}
          	        Andrew C NDE 135  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Andrew C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						570  Andrew C NDE  135  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 Several children, ages 10 to 15, had motorbikes. Mine was a Kawasaki 90cc with a green gas tank. I had just returned from a local stock car race with the family of some neighbors and friends. On the way home, they dropped me off, then they went home. It was about sunset, and I got on my motorcycle to ride in the park across the street from my house. My friends that were at the races got home and were getting theirs out too. The next door neighbor of these friends was not at the races, but was home and got his motorcycle out too.


This friend, Eric, and I were on the same trail headed right at each other. Eric and I had known each other since the age of 4. In the few weeks preceding the incident, Eric was taunting me endlessly, or though it seemed. He was telling others of how I was afraid of confrontations.


That evening I, for some unknown reason, decided to hold my own on the trail, and not veer off. This was different behavior than I normally would have done, and Eric was quite surprised. I remember the expression on his face as we began to collide head-on. We glanced along the left side of our motorcycles. The rear end of my motorcycle flew up and I was bucked off like a bull ride.


It was when I was in mid-air that the spiritual experience occurred. I recall flashes of parts of my life up to that point, a bright light in one direction, being drawn in that direction, an inquiry to me as to which religious symbolic form I wanted the presence to appear in, a few options, then my image of Jesus Christ in a blue robe appeared. I seemed very, very small, and was asked how I wanted this situation to be resolved. I decided to carry on with my life, and it was agreed upon that I would do a front flip onto a bed mattress. The mattress was placed before me on the ground. The image of Jesus and the strong back lighting faded. As it shrank, the physical world came into focus.


I abruptly landed on my back, hit hard and bounced into the air still rotating, then skidded on the ground on my face. That ended what I consider the religious confrontation. It was as if time stopped and I had this experience.


After coming to rest on the ground, I had an out of body experience, where I was in the air and moving about. I remember seeing my neighbor in the park. Marcia was about 70 yards from the point of contact, but in this experience I knew she was there, moved in her direction, but was no closer than 20 yards. She appeared to be unaware of my presence, but also seemed to be motionless. The leaves on the trees seemed to move slowly as well, as the breeze was in the air.


I came to when a friend that was at the car races was standing over me, with his helmet shaking me vigorously. Eric was on the back of another person’s motorcycle, and almost home by the time I stood up. My legs felt numb, but I could make them move and walk, but not turn.


Days later, I asked Marcia about being there, and she confirmed she was, and was quite surprised that I knew of her whereabouts, and did not want to talk about it. This was kind of a secret spot in the park, it was at a lower elevation, where we occasionally smoked cigarettes. I do not recall what she was doing, but do recall that she was very beautiful.


My tooth was loose after the accident, and my lower back hurt for days. My father decided I did not need to see a medical doctor, because I could walk and move about. He assessed my loose tooth, and decided it was just bumped hard. Dad was a dentist. About 18 months later, in an x-ray, he discovered the root of the loose tooth had died, and was surprised that the injury was so traumatic. Twenty six years later I had an x-ray of my lower back by a chiropractor. He discovered my lowest vertebra is nearly a 1/4 inch longer on one side than the other. This is the reason I occasionally have lower back muscle spasms, the muscles work hard to make up for the weight displacement due to the curvature.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    1977

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death A close friend and I collided on our motorcycles.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Appearance was identical to my body in every way, except it seemed somewhat translucent.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      During the spiritual contact, I was unaware of my physical presence, consumed entirely by the awe and presence of a divine being.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Time seemed to slow, then almost stop altogether as the religious part of the experience occurred.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    No unusual sounds, in fact it was very quiet, and my conversation seemed to occur with telepathy, not moving the mouth.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     There was a brief time that I was guided towards a light, and I heeded the suggestion.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     There was a query as to what religious form the divine communicator should take. My answer was Jesus Christ, and a part of the light formed into an image that made me feel comfortable.

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   The light quickly became bright, and was so immense that it drowned out my ability to see the rest of the physical world around me.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was more like the location came to me, instead of me going to it.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Anger, sternness, joy, love, excitement, and curiosity.  

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I learned that hate, anger, deceit are meaningless. Love, care and compassion of fellow man and all that is, is what matters.

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I learned that we are all of the same life force, and that we are very similar to each other. That if people can find and communicate their similarities, peace will follow.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     The future event was that I would be allowed to live.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   It was decided that I was young and still had a long meaningful life ahead of me. That the problems at hand, such as absence of a mother, and a father that required me to become very mature at a young age, were not as troublesome as I was making them out to be.

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   Methodist

What is your religion now?      Moderate   Multi-denominational affiliated with the United Church of Christ

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Life is worth living, no matter what. Tomorrow is always another day, and that, in the end, we are all on this planet for a short time.

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No   

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     I find I can sometimes communicate with people by finishing their sentences, or sum up their feelings in only a few words. I also feel connected with certain strangers, some of which have later in life become friends, and that a few of these friends are able to communicate subtle ideas at great distances without physically talking with them or seeing them for long periods of time. I also find that with certain people I can kind of role play their thoughts and feelings, and see how they can come to a conclusion. This also makes it easy to become a devil’s advocate’, as they say, because flaws in their rational becomes apparent.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part was the opportunity to witness a divine presence. The worst part was the suffering of my friend Eric. His foot was damaged in the collision and it underwent several surgical procedures.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    In my childhood, some friends made fun of me, a few others seemed in awe of my ability to describe the situation with vivid detail.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   I have had other out-of-body experiences, normally occurring while in a very relaxed state.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Now that it’s about 26 years later, I would like to remember and honor the event annually.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      This is kind of a follow-up to the out of body experience from last night.

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1andrew_c_nde.html