{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1andrea_k_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Andrea K Possible NDE 4015","mylang":"de"}
          	        Andrea K Possible NDE 4015  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Andrea K Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			1926 Andrea K Possible NDE 4015  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I felt as if I was squeezed through a dark tube of some kind. I imagine birth could be like it. It felt heavy and hard to squeeze through. When I was out of this dark tube, I felt great. I had no physical body. I was seeing and feeling but I had a body that looked like transparent!!!! But my thinking was normal. Through all of this, I have felt someone next to me. I think it was a woman because it had woman's voice but she did not speak with her mouth. This woman??? showed me things I do not remember all. She said to me, 'This is what it will be like when you come here.' I then saw a seashore, or something like it, and the air seemed to be blue. All was blue.

I felt as if I was looking from the right upper corner from somewhere and I felt her next to me at all times. She was so calm. I saw people on this seashore and I seemed to know these people even though I have never seen them in this dimension. I felt such love and I felt so much love from them. There was one woman she seemed to be close to me. I was able to hold her hands, we looked at each other, and I felt love yet sadness. Then this Being next to me said that it was time to go now and I will see them again but it was not my time yet. I did not wish to go - I begged to stay and then I felt this dark tight tube around me again and at this moment, I heard the nurse call my name. I even cried when I woke up from surgery. The nurse told me that I was saying that I do not wish to come back and she had to slap my cheeks several times. Since then I feel sort of homesick. I wished to experience this again. I think I feel less afraid of death now.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  2002

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Surgery-related    Other During Foot Surgery

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Can't say.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Can't say.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no time or space, you just be???? But somehow time was going by so fast hard to explain.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was as if you were able to touch the air.  I was surrounded with blue color and my body was transparent.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was no noise; it was as if we communicated through the mind.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Black long tight Tube????

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I can't explain so much with words but it was the greatest feeling - to be free to feel at peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Saw so many things but cannot remember.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     This being would not let me cross the boundary. I had to watch from a distance but could be still close in mind to other beings.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   I do not belong to any religion but I strongly believe in god

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I do not believe in religion or even practice a certain religion just that I know God is here and everywhere.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   I do not belong to any religion but I strongly believe in god

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I do not believe in religion or even practice a certain religion just that I know God is here and everywhere.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I now know that all and everything that is happening is for a reason.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I suddenly had to pass messages from deceased people. I was able to describe how they look or what they did - I later felt as if I was cursed but I also could help some people to find closure. Also it seems as if I can feel peoples' feelings, good or bad.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I wish to know about this woman that held my hand and seemed to love me so much and promised to wait for me there.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Some called me witch and asked how could I know these things? Some said I had a gift. After this, I wished not to share anymore. But these dead ones did not leave me alone until I would pass their messages. I often wished to be wrong about this because I could not explain how this can happen suddenly.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I always heard about people who were clinically dead or had a heart attack or something. This was not the case with me and still I am unsure what it is called what I had experienced.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     IT WAS ALL REAL TO ME!!!!AT ALL TIMES AND ALWAYS WILL BE!!! Just wish to be there after this life and never come back to live another lifetime here on Earth.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     See above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Since this was not a so called NDE I still would like to know what it was and are there any other people who have experienced the same or similar?      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1andrea_k_possible_nde.html