{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1andrea_g_fde.html","mytitle":"Andrea G FDE 9490","mylang":"de"}
          	        Andrea G FDE 9490  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Andrea G FDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification FDE  						5103 Andrea G FDE 9490  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    It was a cold, wet January evening about 5pm. It was dark and my mum was with me in the car. We were driving to get my daughter so we could help her choose a wedding dress. The motorway was very busy. I was driving in the first lane, when I felt a jolt on the rear driver's side of the car. My car was pushed at an angle and under its own momentum continued into the middle lane of the motorway.  

  From the time my car was hit, time dramatically slowed down. I know only a few seconds passed but it seemed like a long time. Mum and I had a conversation and I don’t know how.  At impact, I said to mum, 'We’ve been hit and we’re going to be hit again.' Mum said, ‘I know.’ My car appeared to stop in the middle lane. I said to mum, ‘Is this how we die?' We both knew we were going to die. There was no fear, it was very matter of fact. I knew it would be very quick and soon we would be unconscious.   During those thoughts, I remembered something on the news.  A family was hit by a HGV and the car was crushed. I wondered if the car would be crushed or burst into flames. I presumed there would be a pileup. I remember these thoughts but wasn’t afraid. We were both calm.

  Mum grabbed me and started to pull.  I wasn’t moving because I had my seatbelt on. I asked, ‘What are you doing?’ She said, 'I need to get you over here.' Meaning over to her side of the car because that lorry is back. I turned my head to look out of my side window and saw the HGV very close to my side of the car. I saw the yellow and blue swish of its colors. 

  There were many vehicles on the motorway at the time but from the time of the first impact, they all disappeared. There was only us and the HGV. An HGV is a Heavy Goods Vehicle, often called a semi-truck in the USA. I think it looked like daylight again, everything was clear, with the only sound being mine and my mum's voices. 

  I don’t remember the impact to the car and I don’t remember a sound. I remember a feeling of going backwards.  We literally were going backwards as my car was attached to the HGV and we were being dragged backwards down the motorway. I could see the road behind me, but I know I was strapped in my seat facing forward.   

I was above the car. I remember thinking, 'I’m glad mum can’t see this as she hates going backwards.' I looked down at something and realized it was me. My eyes were open and my face was white. I think I must have come back to my body then. 

  The next thing I remember was sitting in the driver's seat and mum was in the passenger seat. We were stationary. The HGV was on the hard shoulder of the motorway facing the correct way. My car was still attached to the HGV and was in the first lane of the motorway.  Our car was facing the wrong way round towards oncoming traffic. We were unable to get out of the car as it took 20 minutes for the police to close the motorway.  Then they could get us out of the car. 

  All that time we were waiting to be hit by another car. I didn’t phone family because I didn’t want them to hear the impact if another car hit us. But by a miracle they all avoided us.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 19 January 2022  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Life threatening event, but not clinical death   The car I was driving was crashed into twice by a heavy goods vehicle on the motorway  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I saw myself in the car being bragged backwards down the motorway, attached to the HGV. I was aware it was real and I was aware that I looked at my face in the car  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was very focused on just the situation, nothing else existed  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At the time of the initial impact  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     The 2 impacts seemed to be minutes apart. We had a conversation which we both recall. I must have only been a few seconds  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Very focused, I could only see what was essential  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I only heard my mums voice, she was with me in the car. I didn’t hear anything else  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   Whilst waiting to be hit the 2nd time it looked like day light again, I know it was a dark, rainy night  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I remember being glad my mum couldn’t see what I was seeing  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian     

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience       

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            No       

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life       

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Closer to my mum as we were both there and no one else will ever understand what it was actually like  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was a few months after when I discussed it with my mum and a few more months passed before i told my husband. They both believed me  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   My step father had and described 2 NDE post coronary events  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I always knew it was real  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No               				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1andrea_g_fde.html