{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1andrea_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Andrea C NDE 2920","mylang":"de"}
          	        Andrea C NDE 2920  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Andrea C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1018  Andrea C NDE  2920  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I went to a place that's pretty much indescribable, but I'm going to give it my best shot, here goes:

I was in a place, which was underwater, and I was going round and round unable to breathe. This went on for what seemed like an age. I was panicking and knew my time was ending. I thought I knew what it was like to be 'frightened' but now I really know. Suddenly everything went very calm and peaceful. It was the most wonderful feeling I've ever felt. I felt like a feather image of myself, so free and light. If I could have described myself at that moment in a word, it would be 'whisper'. A man appeared in front of me, chanting happily for me to go with him. He knew my name. He seemed familiar but I didn't know him. This man did not scare me in any way although I knew if I went with him that would be it for me. A force was pulling me towards him. I had to stop myself by wading in the water with my hands. I loved the place I was in and could have stayed there forever, life stresses and all known reality was gone. I had many experiences through my experience in hospital but I can clearly tell apart this one from all the other drug related hallucinations, etc. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 8.1.2003  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I went for an operation that went terribly wrong, the surgeon cut an artery but did not notice, I spent nine days on life support following five life-saving operations, twenty-one units of blood etc., I actual went, twice!  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was so incredibly aware of what was going on, and it was very clear that if I followed the man I wouldn't have returned.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The beginning before I believe I passed through.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     There was no time, time means nothing there.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see the man clearly, I have his image in my mind even today but some things are still cloudy.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    When you hold you head under the bath, this experience gave me the same sound, cloudy calm noise I describe it.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     When the panicking stopped I was instantly in this beautiful place, I believe this was somewhere like reception.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I feel somebody came to meet me, and I believe he was a late grandfather but I was fostered as a child so never knew my natural family. But something tells me it was him.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   It was a different light than normal, a beautiful light.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     it was a plce ive never known , somewhere you dream to be  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt that I was a faint image of myself in another place altogether.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Remembered many past events       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I'm so confused now as I never really had strong beliefs before the incident, but now I know that there's something other than this life, I'm so much more calm and I don't worry about life's petty problems, etc.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate   I truly believe it's all out there  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I'm so confused now as I never really had strong beliefs before the incident, but now I know that there's something other than this life, I'm so much more calm and I don't worry about life's petty problems, etc.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was a lot of emotion, smell, feelings.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I feel my senses are much stronger, I sometimes don't feel alone, but tell that to anybody here and they send the white coats in.  :0)  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The whole thing was amazing, and it's something I know you won't understand until it's time, which is a shame. I am not afraid of dying anymore.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real      I kept thinking about it within weeks but it seemed too unreal.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The feelings won't go away and I can still see in my mind the whole experience, I've forgotten everything else that happened in hospital. This was definitely real, I wish I could be hypnotized or something to prove it.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The feeling of entering my special place, the only regret is I can't share it with people I love, I desperately wanted them to see this place.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1andrea_c_nde.html