{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1analia_r_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Analia R Probable NDE 7639","mylang":"de"}
          	        Analia R Probable NDE 7639  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Analia R Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3920 Analia R Probable NDE 7639  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My experience occurred during urgent surgery at the age of 19. I very well remember everything that happened. I know that at that given moment, I was having my operation, obviously anesthetized, I found myself looking down at myself from above, from the ceiling of the operating theatre. I could see myself in my hospital bed, with the doctors and nurses working on me, my face looked very pale in the light in the operating room. After some seconds, and very rapidly, I was in another place totally unrecognizable. It was a place in the countryside, somewhere I had never been, where the light was very bright. I was stopped on a white road, and on looking either way I could see an infinity of white tulips, I couldn’t see the end of this beautiful garden, it was beautiful! The tulips swayed gently to the rhythm of a warm breeze and the intense perfume of the flowers was very rich. In front, the road continued up to a hill, and the light shone more brightly here. My clothes were white, extremely white. 

At my side they took my hand, me an adult, her a child. My cousin was with me, all dressed in white, as well. 20 years ago, she died, an angel, at the age of 4, she was my friend in those days of eternal infancy. Her smile was so beautiful. She never said to me in words, but I knew what she was saying, she wanted me to come with her to the top of the hill. We began walking, looking at each other for a moment, happy. Peace, tranquility and joy, I felt, I never wanted to return and live: it’s indescribable with words. I was immensely happy, and nothing bothered me, I had to get to this hilltop in my cousin’s hand. But this wasn’t going to happen, I woke up suddenly in the operating room feeling a sense of suffocation, it was maddening. 

At the foot of the bed was my cousin always smiling. Desperate for air, it was intense and I couldn’t move, I suppose that with the effects of the anesthesia there was nothing I could do. Until someone, I believe, a nurse, put on an oxygen mask, and I could feel fresh air entering my lungs. I went to sleep, and on waking, although in the room, she was no longer there. The anguish of knowing that I had gone to this marvelous place, so full of peace, and that she wasn’t here, was maddening. I began to cry and shout her name. None of them knew her name and believed it was an effect of the anesthesia. But my mother, realized whose name I had cried out, and tried to calm me down, everyone cried but no-one knew that my cries were because I wanted to go back to this wonderful place, so full of peace. Often this feeling made me feel guilty, because nothing else was important, nothing except going back. I will never forget any detail of this experience, which has changed my life forever. It is very nice to find a place where you are able to share the experience with people who understand through the experiences they have had.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  17/10/1999

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    Surgery-related       Other: Durate una cirujia  It was during surgery. Then, because of what happened, my family consulted with the doctors who were attending to me, to find out if anything had happened during the intervention. They said that nothing unexpected had happened. Nevertheless, after the event, I have the certainty that something happened and I feel that I lacked air very profoundly: only for a short time.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I don’t know how much time passed, from the beginning of the operation, to the point where I was looking down on myself. I just remember the surgeons around me and the light they use in the operating theatre lighting up my body. The time in which I could see myself was very short. Because seconds later I went up the hill of tulips, as I have called it. Never could I compare anything that happened that day. Nor inquire too much. I had left my life due to a delicate operation. I had a bleed, caused by a cyst rupturing in an ovary. After many hours, they decided to operate on me, and it was to be a high-risk for me. Then after the surgery I had to focus and recover.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I have always been very alert, but this moment can’t be compared with anything else in my life. Without a doubt during those moments was the most conscious I have ever been in my life. It’s a very intense emotional shock, the knowledge that there is something else.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I think it was going back to the event and I now understand that both spaces were co-existing in me.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     One can look through the soul, through things. Everything is clear. But in one sense the vision is different, to that which we have physically. Something more than simply seeing is happening there.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I only felt the breeze that swayed the tulips and silence. Nothing else. Peace.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I met a cousin that had been dead for 20 years. When she died, she was only 4, and me 5. We were playmates and I admired her a lot. She died of leukemia, and it was very sad for my family. During my whole life, I have had other experiences with her, in dreams and feelings.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A very bright light, and at the end, where it was guiding me along the road, it was even brighter.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     This world is totally different to the one down here. Everything around you there has an aura of magic. Something I don’t know how to put into words. The light, this intense light is strong, but doesn’t blind you, you see everything.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       During the experience I felt deep peace and happiness. Fullness and joy. Afterwards, I felt a deep anguish of being aware of what had happened in this wonderful place. It was very painful to know what had happened to me.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     Many doubts about my life disappeared. Also doubts about human reason.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   Siempre he sido muy creyente.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I felt that we all go to that same home and that we all come from the same place. We are all equal.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I felt that God was waiting for me at the top of the hill, where the intense light was.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Uncertain     I felt that this was real, and that it was where we go when we die. Through this, indirectly, I felt it gave me knowledge that there is life after death.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     There I felt the most pure love I have ever felt in my life.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       My experience gave me hope, the certainty of a tomorrow, beyond death.     My experience gave me hope, the certainty of a tomorrow, beyond death.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am much more sensitive with people and their feelings. Also, I have had experiences, with people I don´t know, who have told me secrets, and things in their lives, that have been proof of my own sanity. There are many cases of these people, I have met, some of who confided in me as if by pure chance. I believe that the experience gave me greater sensitivity, and people can perceive it, at least those that come near.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It’s difficult to explain in words the feelings that you experience over there, there’s nothing like it in human life that one can experience. It’s too intense, beautiful, calm, and full of peace, everything raised to the umpteenth power.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    With family and very close friends, or those that could understand what had happened to me. I don´t know if any one felt influenced, maybe so. It is difficult for others to understand the power of the experience. I hope that those I have told my story to, have been helped.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   That which you can know by the media or a book.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     Nothing more. All my life I have never felt anything so powerful as what happened that day. The intensity of what happened through feeling it. I don’t believe that anything like this couldn’t be real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I cannot think of anything. It seems all very serious. Thank you.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1analia_r_probable_nde.html