{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1anaica_nde.html","mytitle":"Anaica NDE 2553","mylang":"de"}
          	        Anaica NDE 2553  		  		  		  		  		    		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Anaica NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						821  Anaica NDE  2553  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  The experience itself was extremely unique to anything I have experienced in life so far. It is very vague now, but the years of nightmares remind me. The most memorable part was infinite beings of light and darkness swirling around me pressing in to suffocation then expanding to vast expanse and back again. Almost like a dance of sounds and sensation so perplexing, that recalling the memory causes me to chill and swoon. The nightmares have been gone for years now, but I can still recall the events, the words without meaning (many whispers from around me), a vast expanse wrapped tightly around me, and endless maze of emotion that seemed to last forever. In retrospect I loved it, even though it caused much fear and discomfort at the time it caused much needed spiritual growth.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1984, 1990  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain       Direct head injury  Sled ride into a tree at fast speed. Tin can thrown and imbedded in forehead.  Other Clinical death followed by coma after resuscitation. Both events.  Each death was followed by coma three weeks for the first one, three days for the second.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I would not waste time thinking of spiritual things before these events. It is the only think worth thinking about for long periods of time now.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When being suffocated and whispered to.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     No time existed. It seemed to go on forever in an instant. Every bit of space was occupied yet was in constant motion.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It wasn't sight that's for sure. But the images can't be erased from my mind.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I've never heard sounds as those silently embedded in me any place on earth.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     I think I was just there. From beginning to end (always).  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     1. Everywhere and everything.  2. I knew them all and have no clue who they were.  3. Many words in whispers so loud they dominated the experience.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Both light and darkness, but not like either, un-separated without shadow.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place     The entire event was beautiful and just trying to think of it causes serenity.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was happy to be sad. I felt joy and fear.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From personal future        I became extremely good at divination. All my predictions (which have to do with people) have come to pass. I have stopped divining at this time as I won't tell another person when they will die. I do not consider myself psychic.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Presbyterian  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I now accept all religion as the downfall of mankind.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Well versed in all forms of religion, and occult.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I now accept all religion as the downfall of mankind.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   Serenity. Even in fear it felt of perfect order.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I evoke a deeper train of thought process in all my friends.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Indescribable forms, sounds, and sensations.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I still to this day can't remember the words from the whispers.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Ten years. They could not believe I had died so many times. I only count three times though, the clinical deaths (almost drowning doesn't count).  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Well I was in a coma for a while and did not have time to reflect right away. The nightmares for the next five years brought me back superficially to the experience. I could feel a big difference between the dreams and the experience itself as there was no comfort or serenity in the dreams.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Reality is the only word in the English language that should always be used in quotes.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       NDE will change you forever. There is no return to being naive.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       A good question would be. Would you like to experience this again?     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1anaica_nde.html