{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ana_rita_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Ana Rita A NDE 2253","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ana Rita A NDE 2253  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ana Rita A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						690  Ana Rita A NDE  2253  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

My boyfriend at the time, who is now my husband, said that when I arrived in the room, I was no longer breathing, by abdomen was sunken in and I was purple. I had taken an overdose so he took something and opened my mouth. But I only remember being drawn upwards in the tunnel, and that wonderful feeling of peace, and the light that was at the end of the tunnel. Then when I returned, I remember arguing with my husband before I understood what was happening. He called to me and I yelled at him that I didn't want to return and I asked that he let me go until he made me understand what was happening. The sensation when I returned was as if I had been pushed rapidly back down again, drawn back down very rapidly.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1990, I'm not sure about the exact date  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         Uso de drogas  Other Eu usava drogas na época, e tive uma overdose  Overdose.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I saw and felt with great clarity. The felt sensation of peace was very strong within me.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was being drawn up in the tunnel, during that whole process that I remember. I was sort of stunned when I returned.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     As if it were a vertical tunnel, narrow and dark. But when I looked up at the end of the tunnel there was a very bright light.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Very bright, very clear.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     I learned that here in this life, even when we are happy and at peace, it is nothing compared to what I felt that day.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Catolica  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Catolica  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   It's difficult to explain to someone who has never had such an experience. It's difficult to make them understand. The tunnel that everybody talks about isn't horizontal, but vertical, as if you were in a dark well and then you begin to go upwards as if you were being drawn from above. And at the apex of the tunnel, you are filled with a very bright light - a sensation of peace, a peace that is inexplicable to someone who has never felt it before. It isn't what people normally THINK peace is, but a far greater fullness of peace.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The whole experience was significant. I love remembering the experience and if that was death I have no fear of it. On the contrary...  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They listen to me but it seems they really don't grasp what I say. I don't think they believe me.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Even today I remember the details and the sensations that I had, just as I remember other things in life.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ana_rita_a_nde.html