{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ana_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Ana R NDE 1084","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ana R NDE 1084  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ana R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						513  Ana R NDE  1084  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was going down on the elevator at home, with my dad, headed to the hospital in order to be readmitted. The last thing I can recall is that I passed out (fainted) and that I was falling to the floor. The next thing I saw was a vast, large room, with plain walls, that initially seemed to be very dark; but, when I watched it more carefully/thoroughly, I thought it was all black.


There was a big distance in between the side walls, I couldn’t see any ceiling; If there was any, it seemed that it was very distant, because nothing could be noticed in that full darkness. The ground/floor had no inclination/slope, no tiles or stairs could be seen.


In front of me, there was this big black door, massive and open. It had no frame or hinges and a very clear light came from there, but it reached me in a diffused way. I thought this was due to the big distance to the door. I remained there for a while, thinking about my next move and started moving towards the light. I knew inside me that if I crossed that light I would never come back. I do not know how to explain this, since it never crossed my mind neither my past life nor my relatives left behind.


When reaching the door, scarcely two steps to cross it, I heard a voice that came from behind, from a long distance. And I recognized it as my mother’s voice. She was asking me to come back. Automatically, without hesitation, even unconsciously, I turned around; to the place, I came from and turned around in my body.


That precise moment, headed to the hospital, I woke up in the ambulance. This was a short experience for me, as if only it had taken two minutes. However, I guess that it took longer since I was already in the ambulance and accompanied by my mother, instead of my father.


After my stay in the hospital, a nurse - a neighbor of mine - confirmed that I had no pulse when I fell down in the elevator and that she called the ambulance. I did not tell my experience to anybody, since I have always been pretty realistic and skeptical on these matters.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    23 Febrero 2001

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Heart attack  Problemas ginécológicos por los que estuve ingresada una semana antes de la experiencia.  Clinical death Paro respiratorio debido a una hemorragia grave.I was having a heart attack.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I experienced a kind of withdrawal, as if somebody had sucked me out of my body. I found myself in the tunnel. I do not think this can be considered as an extra-corporeal experience or out-of-the-body experience.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I remained fully alert and conscious, with no other stimuli, thought or souvenir that would interfere with my attention about what was going on.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Not during the NDE, but when I woke up and realized that it took longer then what I thought.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     I already described the tunnel or vast room. I cannot define it since I could not see the ceiling.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   The light came from the open door, pretty intense at the beginning and reached me in a diffused way, foggy.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes     I did not pass the door, I got stopped just right then. I had the feeling, I was aware, that if I passed the door I would never be back.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I think I came back when I turned round and stared at the tunnel; if anything made me come back, that was my mum’s voice. She said it to me in the ambulance, but I heard her from the massive tunnel or room.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   Ninguna

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist   Ninguna

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Uncertain     Now I believe that death is only a transit we have to go through and I feel less scared than in the past. Otherwise, my ideas have not changed at all.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   It was a weird feeling, wide - in order to explain - and my return was all of a sudden and harsh/rough; it was like if I had been thrown away from there, although I am of the impression that I got out when turning round and watching towards the tunnel.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       There was no best or worst part.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    With a university teacher of Theology who was teaching 'Death in the history of religions'. I told it to him in his office and our chat was recorded, as part of his own investigation. I did not tell anybody else.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain     

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ana_r_nde.html