{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ana_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Ana G NDE 2167","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ana G NDE 2167  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ana G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						603  Ana G NDE  2167  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            Experience Description :   

  The physician arrived in response to the call for help from my husband who had just arrived with my two older daughters. They couldn't find any veins to put the intravenous needle into for the blood serum. I was almost unconscious, my body did not respond, but my mind was conscious listening to everything that was being said around me. They were worried because they couldn't find a vein and according to what they said I was losing my pulse.

After this I remember beginning to rise upward and follow a white light that was getting bigger the closer I got to it. I then heard only echoes of the voices of the people who were present in the room. After this, there was a total silence and I experienced an immense peace, tranquility. I felt no pain, only great happiness and I sensed that something marvelous would be waiting for me once I reached the light. Then I heard the echo of my daughters' voices (saying, 'Mommy, what's happening to you mommy?') and the cries of my baby. And then I remembered that I had three small children who needed me and I pleaded with God, saying to Him: 'No, my God, not yet. My children need me,' and I felt as if I fell down from above into the hospital cot where my body lay.

I began to feel pain once again. After this, they took me to surgery where the doctors closed up my wound and cleaned up the spilled blood. I don't know how long all this took, but afterward a doctor told me they had given me two liters of blood because I had lost so much. He told me I had been very strong and that everything would be alright and I felt that what he said was the way things would be because God had given me more time to be in this life with the people I love most and who need me.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 Agosto 2, 2001  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-relatedChildbirth       Life threatening event, but not clinical death   After giving birth to my last child, I decided to get my tubes tied and after the surgery one of the tubes had remained open and I was bleeding internally. The people who were in charge of observing me did not pay attention and I got to my limits of pain, had convulsions, and almost lost consciousness.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   They were much stronger, as if I already knew that what awaited me was much better.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I felt myself rising up and I saw the great white light.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   As if everybody who is down below did everything more rapidly. But I was up above as if suspended in time.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I looked at this brilliant, dazzling, white light and somehow I could also see my children and the people who were trying to save my life.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could tell where the echoes of the voices were coming from.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was a brilliant light that got bigger and I followed it.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, tranquility, happiness.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     This life is fleeting and that a better life exists after this life. There's no reason to fear death. Death does not exist. It is only a transition.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I now follow all the norms of the church and I take my family with me to church.  

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I now follow all the norms of the church and I take my family with me to church.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   There is a God, an omnipotent being who always hears us and sees us.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I now am more giving to my family. I have forgiven people whom I never thought I would forgive. Now material things, which seem so important and some necessary to live or live well, are not the most important things.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The tranquility I felt was immense, something I still cannot explain even now.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I recovered the ability to see current and future events in dreams. I had this gift as a child but for some reason I lost it. After this I began to have intuitive dreams once again.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The part where I pleaded with God to leave me even though I felt this immense force attracting me, and nevertheless He allowed me to stay in this life.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Months afterwards my mother was the first one I told and she became very emotional and cried.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   Programs, books, but I don't believe they had any influence because my experience was something inexplicable, neither in books nor in programs could the feeling of immense peace ever be described exactly.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     In the days following I believed it had been caused by the pain since I had read in books that doctors determined that life after death experiences were a state of consciousness to escape pain.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I now see it was definitely real because the immense peace that I felt will never be found anywhere here on earth. I am now sure it was something supernatural.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I would like to say that everybody is here temporarily, and if we learn as much as possible to get along with each other better, everything will be much easier because this life isn't the real life. We have to learn how to be good because what awaits us is much better. And we don't need to fear death, because death does not exist. It is only a change of life.     			    			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ana_g_nde.html