{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ana_a_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Ana A Probable NDE 7230","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ana A Probable NDE 7230  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ana A Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3686 Ana A Probable NDE 7230  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					The neurologist prescribed me a migraine medication, which was an anti-convulsant. The night of February 22nd, as I did every night, I took the corresponding dosage of the medication. However, in addition to taking this medication, I also ate a marijuana cake. It seems that combination was lethal. At the beginning, I felt the hallucinogenic effects of the drug, followed by dizziness. I couldn’t talk, and I had no coordination. I remembered that I was receiving messages on my cell phone, but I couldn’t answer them; I felt really bad. That night my brother had been attending a wedding and sent me a photo using 'whatsapp.' I remember seeing the photo and then I fainted. 

Afterwards, I felt myself leaving my physical body. I was able to look at things around my bed as my body was facing down. I had a sensation of happiness and saw above the head of my physical body a brilliant light with plenty of golden rays. It was beautiful. Suddenly, I received thoughts saying this is how we feel as we die. I just thought, ‘Well, finally the time has come and I am happy, because I want to depart. It has been accomplished.’ I proceeded to go to the light, but when I tried to walk through the door that embraced the light.

I heard many voices, which I identified. It was the voice of my uncle saying that what has been done is done and there’s no going back; it was my decision. I heard my mother’s cry, but it did not stop me; my aunt also said that she couldn't believe what I had just done. My uncle urged them to pick up the body as I had made my decision to leave them. My brother was devastated. He was crying inconsolably to the point that this situation pulled me to go back. I didn’t want to leave the light. I wanted to go, but seeing my brother’s feelings pulled me to go back to my body. I told him that I’ve always wanted to leave and that he needed to accept it. I was able to let him know that I will always take care of him wherever I was. 

Once I said this, I followed the light and entered a world or some kind of level. It was very dark, and I couldn’t see much around me. I was just floating. Suddenly, in the middle of darkness, I felt an extreme cold, which I’d never felt before. In this world, I saw a body, facing down very different from my physical body. It was so thin that I can see its bones. Next to it, there was a doll. I knew that the body was me. I asked myself, ‘What happened to me? Why am I looking like this? What is that doll doing next to me?’ Immediately, I heard an answer, ‘It was you a long time ago. That’s the way you died in one of your past lives; you were raped and murdered.’ I was afraid and cold at this scene. 

Next, I went up to a different level, and it wasn’t that cold; it was warmer. I saw what looked like a deserted land with a beautiful sunset. I observed the sunset and suddenly passed to the next level. As I passed every level, I felt as if I were flying through the clouds, like a bird, but faster. Next, I went to a level much colder than the first one and darker. Being there, I heard a voice telling me that I had arrived but felt an intense pain in my chest, close to the heart; it felt excruciating. I couldn’t see the person who talked to me; he only got closer and said, ‘In this level, you’ll only experience this type of pain. You don’t like it, do you?’ I answered, NO. Then, I felt a strong force taking me downwards. I started descending across all previous levels. I arrived at a warm and beautiful place, but the force continued pushing me down until I reached the first level, where my skinny body lay. Once again, I felt this intense force and went through the door where I had first walked.  

I felt an intense headache as I returned to my physical body. I opened my eyes without remembering who I was or to whom that bed and room belonged. I felt disoriented and afraid, because I had no memory of who I was and why I was there. I heard sounds, which turned out to be my cell phone’s beeps. The message contained a photo of my brother at the wedding. This photo brought all my memories back. I was very tired and ready to go to sleep.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  22 de febrero de 2014

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain.  Drug or medication overdose.    Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   At the moment of the experience, I visited a level where I felt an excruciating pain in my chest close to the heart.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I heard the voice of my uncle saying that what has been done is done. I heard my mother’s cry and my aunt's voice. My brother was crying inconsolably.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Once I saw the light

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     Time seemed to go faster, especially when passing from one level to the other.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was very clear during the experience; however, I visited very dark places and couldn’t see anything.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing remained the same before and after the experience. The only difference was that once I asked a question, I received an immediate answer.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw a white light with golden rays, a blinding light but beautiful.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happiness, distress, and anguish. The latter was at the end of the experience.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Slightly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     Ver una mi cuerpo muy flaco y demacrado muerto por una presunta violación y asesinato, el cuerpo era pequeño. Al parecer fue a una edad joven. Y fue la muerte de otra de mis vidas pasadas.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       No changes in my life     Do not mix medications with hallucinogenic drugs.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   Recuerdo perfectamente todo, y sobre todo las sensaciones vividas

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I was told that I was too stoned.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ana_a_probable_nde.html