{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1amy_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Amy P NDE 2432","mylang":"de"}
          	        Amy P NDE 2432  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Amy P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						734  Amy P NDE  2432  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

   					  

When I was nineteen, I contracted a fatal bacteria called Neisseria meningitis. Within the first fifteen hours of the first symptom, it is ninety-five percent fatal. After entering the hospital, I was put into an induced coma because my entire body was shutting down. My kidneys had failed my liver was shutting down, my lungs and adrenal glands were hemorrhaging and I needed constant blood transfusions. At one point, they realized I was internally bleeding and brought me to a Cat-scan which showed that my spleen had ruptured. I was given 'less than a two percent chance of living'. Although I was in a coma, I was very aware that I was in surgery. At the beginning, I was lying on the table looking up. I saw the Indian doctor to the left of a nurse and me with brown curly hair to the right of me. They were both speaking to me and telling me if I want to live then it is up to me. The doctor asked me if I believed in God and if I do to keep thinking about that. My heart was beating out of my chest 244 beats/minute to be exact I remember feeling it pounding so hard. I felt the doctor cut my chest open. It didn't hurt, I just felt a light touch go from the middle of my chest down to my belly button, and I felt my chest open up, but I felt no pain. I was then looking from above at my body and the doctor and nurses; I thought I was in heart surgery because my heart was pounding out of my chest erratically.

The doctor kept talking to me, although I don't recall seeing his mouth move, I could hear his voice and his words. He was talking me through it. At one point I knew I was dying, my heart was beating so hard and so fast, and I kept thinking I know you guys are trying to help me but hurry because I am going, I'm going, hurry, I'm going. Then I felt one last pound in my chest and I knew that was my last breath. At this point it is confirmed on my electrocardiogram reports that I flat-lined. I remember being in a space floating almost, I didn't feel my legs. It was dark but there was a green light in the background. It wasn't a brilliant bright light it was a soft green. I saw three silhouettes, I didn't recognize who or what they were but they spoke to me and said, 'You can come with us or you can stay.' I remember getting really mad because I was so young and there was no way I was going to let myself die. I remember thinking of all the things I didn't want to give up, like the sound of ocean waves and thunderstorms, even the taste of hose water when I was a kid. I thought about my family and the smell of campfires. I wasn't ready to give that up. I remember knowing that my life would be different from that point on and knowing that physically my life would be challenged but that I made the decision to live. Someone else at that point told me, 'No matter what happens in life just go with it. Just roll with the punches. Life isn't that serious and it will all make sense in the end.' At that point, I experienced the strongest breath of air and it just felt as if my body suddenly became saturated with life. After that surgery, I remained in a coma for another week then slowly woke up. I actually woke up feeling positive and mentally strong, I knew I made the decision to stay therefore I could not complain about the challenges to come. Four weeks later, I had both of my legs amputated and a year later, I had a kidney transplant. So far everything that has happened in my life has been a blessing.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 July 1999  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness Surgery-related       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   While in a coma and on life support my spleen burst and I was internally bleeding. I was in surgery to get it removed and not expected to live. My heart flat-lined and I was aware of everything that was going on, although my eyes were taped shut and I was in a coma.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was alert on a physical level where I knew what was going on with my body at the very beginning. Then I was in a space where I left my body and was encountered by three spirits so at that moment I was I guess you would say spiritually aware.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was alert on a physical level where I knew what was going on with my body at the very beginning. Then I was in a space where I left my body and was encountered by three spirits so at that moment I was I guess you would say spiritually aware.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Because I was in a coma. But during my NDE I could hear everything and see everything clearly.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I didn't pass through the tunnel but remained in it - I was not standing on my feet though.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I did not know them there were three silhouettes they weren't male or female, they were asking me if I want to stay or go with them. When I made the decision to stay I was told by somebody else just to roll with the punches and live with compassion it will all make sense in the end.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A pale soft green light at the end of the dark tunnel.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was somewhere in between. I did not go further then the tunnnel  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A mixture of anger because I didn't want to leave, passion and excitement about life and living and a sense of 'knowing' I felt very compassionate and thankful.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Remembered many past events       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From personal future        I knew I would be physically disabled. I lost both of my feet four weeks later.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   none  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal   none  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew that I was the one who needed to make the decision to live or to die. I was also told that everything will make sense at the end and to just take life as it comes because even the negative things in life have a reason behind them.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am more thankful for everyone in my life today, I am more compassionate as well. Life is about living compassionately and fully, and I know that now.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The entire experience. Knowing that I made the decision to survive has stuck with me ever since. I also thought about all of the things I didn't want to give up and all the things I wanted to experience. My life is so much more full now. I appreciate every moment.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    As soon as I woke from my coma I wrote on paper because I still had a ventilator down my throat and could not speak. I wrote everything I experienced down on paper. Everyone loved it because it was an absolute miracle I survived. Although I have a hard time telling people, it just isn't something comfortable to say out loud, it's something I cherish.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   I had heard of it before. That's it.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It came back to me slowly over about a week's time, but I was also waking up from a coma for over a week's time. I just knew it happened, and recall my thoughts and feelings at the time it happened.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The feelings I had about it in a sense have faded slowly just because I thought about it constantly for the first two years after the experience. Then the last three years I have moved on in my life and I only think about it when I am really quiet or in a challenging situation.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1amy_p_nde.html