{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1amy_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Amy M NDE 9647","mylang":"de"}
          	        Amy M NDE 9647  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Amy M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5208 Amy M NDE 9647  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    Prior to this near-death experience, I had never heard of such a thing.  I had never read of anything like this.
  
  About two months before the incident occurred, I had been hospitalized with seeming labor pains when only 7 months pregnant.  I was told the baby would not survive (this was 1966).  But fortunately, the labor stopped, and I was sent home.  

  Between then and the date of the incident, I had frequent labor pains. 
  
  I was quite worried that I would lose the baby.

  However, I remained pregnant until I finally went into actual labor in the evening of March 16, 1966, and entered the Hospital.

  I gave birth to a son around 1 a.m. on March 17, 1966, in a Catholic Hospital.

  I was THRILLED that the baby was alive and healthy.  

  I was very happy!

  About 8 hours later an announcement came over the Catholic Hospital loudspeaker that a priest would be giving Communion to anyone who wanted it, but you would have to come down the hall to the area of the center desk to receive it.

  I was SO happy that wanted to Thank God for this child surviving to full term and got up out of my hospital bed and began walking down the hall to receive Communion.

  (I should mention some background information here that I think may be pertinent to understanding my believing in my near-death experience.

  I was a very thin child and as a Catholic attending Catholic school I was always attending Mass on an empty stomach so I could receive Communion and therefore had on probably 3 or 4 occasions while in grammar school between ages 8 and 12, fainted. I had also fainted one other time as an adult. The point is that I well knew the difference of the experience of fainting, where one goes completely blank until one comes awake and out of the faint compared to what happened in the near-death incident, I am relaying that happened on March 17, 1966.  Having had those several fainting experiences, I could easily distinguish fainting from the near-death experience I had at age 23.)

  As I was walking down the hospital hallway around 8 or 9 a.m. on March 17, 1966, I suddenly realized I was getting wobbly, and I definitely ‘KNEW’ (or, as it turned out) THOUGHT I was going to Faint!

  I saw a nurse who happened to be coming down the hall a distance away and either she just noticed me getting wobbly or I waved or signaled or called out to her, (I do not remember) but I know she started running towards me.

  I know I went unconscious, and I was totally surprised to find myself in a soft, slowly swirling, black, silky ‘whirlpool’ that I could see and that was slowly drawing me forward.  

  When I looked ahead, I could see a circular area of light in the distance.  This could best be described as being in a tunnel, although it was not narrow nor could I discern a ceiling, etc. 

  As I got closer to the lighted area, I noticed what only could be described as maybe 5 or 6 or more individual dark shadows that were vertical and people-shaped and that were standing in a group to one side of the circular light area at the end of the tunnel.  

  While I heard nothing from these ‘beings’ I somehow ‘KNEW’ that one ‘dark shadow person shaped being standing in the light’ was definitely my maternal deceased Grandmother. She had died May 6, 1956.

  I know I felt an almost indescribable feeling of absolutely ultimate peace, unlike anything experienced in life.   As I got a bit closer to the light and the beings I suddenly ‘heard’ a voice (in my head) and it said to me, ‘NO, GO BACK, IT's NOT TIME YET.’

  The voice was NOT from one of the beings.  I did not know who it was nor where it came from.

  Despite having just been exceedingly happy in life, I DEFINITELY did NOT want to ‘go back!’

  But the next thing I knew I was waking up on the hospital floor and I heard myself saying, out loud, a few times ‘NO, NO, I DON'T WANT TO GO BACK.’

  I soon found myself actually hearing ‘Code 99’ and alarms going off and I was being bent over by a doctor, and there were many other doctors and nurses all around me.  

  They got a wheelchair & put me in it to take me back the very short distance to my bed and the one doctor ordered them to get me back in bed with instructions to me NOT to get up again.

  When my husband arrived hours later during visiting hours, I told him about what happened and that I thought it was extremely strange and definitely not like fainting. HE said it sounded like a near death experience, which was something he had vaguely remembered hearing about years before. He said he would look into getting me some reading material about it.

  I firmly believe it was a near-death experience and that afterlife exists.

  It has never happened to me since.  My sons try to tell me it was a biological reaction, but I totally disagree with them.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 March 17, 1966  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    Childbirth       Other Either Clinical Death or lapsing into Clinical Death; Occurred in Hospital on floor with ‘Code 99’   Uncertain because I was in the hospital after giving birth about 8 hours before, had gotten out of bed, was walking down hospital hall when I collapsed on the floor.  When I revived, ‘Code 99’ and Alarms were ringing and numerous doctors and nurses were around me on the floor.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I felt I had Normal consciousness and alertness.  It was just a totally ‘unusual’ experience.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was told ‘NO, GO BACK, IT's NOT TIME YET.’  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       No  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was the same as normal.  However, I could not discern features on the dark shadow beings standing in the light.  But I do not think that was due to my having a vision defect.  I felt I was either too far away and/or that I was not supposed to be able to see them as individuals/people, etc.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was the same.  But, I had never before ‘heard voices just in my mind or just in my head.’  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It can best be described as a tunnel, but it was not exactly like a typical earthly US Tunnel.  I could not see or discern sides or a roof. And I did not feel confined.  But it was ‘a path’ that I had been drawn ‘through.’  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I ‘sensed’ or somehow ‘KNEW’ for certain that one of the dark shadowy vertical beings shaped like people standing in a group to one side of the lighted area at the end of the tunnel was my maternal grandmother who had died 10 years earlier.  I was not made aware of who the other ‘beings’ standing with her were, nor identified anyone else.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   There was a lighted circular or arched area at the end of the ‘tunnel’ but the light appeared to be normal ‘light’ (like daylight) compared to the black whirlpool and ‘tunnel.’  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was jarring to be found in a ‘whirlpool’ and slowly being carried forward toward a light with dark shadowy vertical people shaped beings without discernible features, and since I somehow knew my dead grandmother was there and since I heard a voice in my head, I can only conclude that it was a ‘clearly mystical or unearthly realm.’  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       TOTAL INCREDIBLE PEACE.  And, then annoyance, disappointment and/or frustration that I had to ‘go back’ to life.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will  I was NOT given the choice of whether or not to return to life.  I was specifically and emphatically told to ‘NO. GO BACK. IT's NOT TIME YET.’ and then I was immediately NOT going forward to the lighted area but was being drawn backward.  My experience of being drawn backward was only for a very few seconds. The next thing I knew I was awake on the hospital floor & objecting out loud ‘NO, I DON’T WANT TO GO BACK.’  

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   Raised as Catholic and attended all Catholic schools. But had started to drift away from religion because of increasing disagreement with a few specific issues and had stopped attending church about a year to a year and a half before near-death incident.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Secular unaffiliated   I believe in the validity of all religions in that they contribute to a better society and because I do believe in afterlife.  But life's circumstances combined with increasing questions and differences have caused me to be and remain unaffiliated.  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     While I had belief in the existence of an after-life at the time of the experience, I had NOT known of ‘near-death experiences’ at the time this happened to me.  So, I cannot say that the experience was consistent with any belief I had at the time it happened. I had never heard of near-death experiences before.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   I ‘heard’ a voice (in my head, not literally as one normally hears).  I could not tell where it came from, nor who or what said it.  It specifically said, ‘NO, GO BACK, IT's NOT TIME YET.’ And at that point I was no longer moving towards the lighted area with the beings standing there but was being pulled backwards.  (the backward ‘pulling’ was only experienced for a very brief few seconds before I awoke on the hospital floor.  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     Someone’ or Some Entity, perhaps GOD? made the decision that I was to be sent back because it was not yet my time to get to the light at the end of the tunnel and be with the ‘beings’ (including my dead grandmother) who was standing there.  I believe that must have been God, but (said humorously) maybe he has a gate-keeper angel??  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Just a belief that after life does exist.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     I ‘KNEW’ (somehow, I became aware of, like telepathy?) that one of the beings in the light was my deceased maternal grandmother.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       No changes in my life     I find it strange that after this experience which confirmed my prior religious beliefs, I did not return to formal religion practice that I had just stopped before the experience.  I can only conclude that PERHAPS I sub-consciously think that ALL religions on earth are manifestations of mankind's intuitive belief in a God and/or afterlife and therefore do not choose one religion to practice.  However, my not returning to my original religion may just be the result of the ‘veil of unawareness or blindness’ to an afterlife that we experience during life kept me from focusing on and making such decision.  I simply don't know.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the ex  I have told the story of this experience to many people over the years. I have always told the exact same details.  I will never forget the details of this experience.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I think I was ‘sent back’ to either raise my children for some  purpose.  Or I think I may have been ‘sent back’ to LEARN something during my life that I needed to learn to determine my place in the afterlife.  I only hope I have earned the right to return to that same place I almost entered.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was only a matter of a few hours that I told my husband. He believed me totally and he does to this day.  I have told one Female 3rd cousin who lived in a different country, and she believed me.  I have told many, many friends and other relatives.  I think almost all believe me.  Only my children insist it was biological!  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I have always believed it was definitely real including immediately after it happened and in the weeks that followed.  Of course, having just given birth & having a toddler as well, I was very busy and could not concentrate on the experience for a while after it happened.  But my husband DID follow up on his promise to find me reading material on near-death experiences I believe within a few months of it happening in 1966.  I was glad to learn it had happened to others.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It is as real to me today as if it had just occurred.  It was SO unusual and SO unlike fainting, that it HAD TO BE SOMETHING ELSE that was VERY SIGNIFICANT.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No this was very thorough.         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1amy_m_nde.html