{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1amy_c_nde_8259.html","mytitle":"Amy C NDE 8259","mylang":"de"}
          	        Amy C NDE 8259  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Amy C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						4322 Amy C NDE 8259  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I remember being in a vanilla, pink-colored, and misty tunnel. I could  hear the prayers of people. Some of the people I knew, like my youngest son. Many people  I didn't know. But these prayers I could hear them individually and as a whole at the same time. They were also displayed like a silver audio play-button on a sound file as I passed through this tunnel.  I could reach out and touch these files and hear them. It was an overwhelming feeling of love and caring. 

  				  After passing through this tunnel, I entered a wooden-paneled waiting room with a small square window in it. The window was two feet square and had an indescribably bright white light shining through it. In this waiting room with me were three bright-light spirits that resembled starlight. They were brightest of star light that you could imagine. I knew I was not staying there and that I was being returned. The three spirits were  keeping me company until I was returned. I kept looking at the bright light shining through the window and at three spirits with me. I remember feeling so calm and wanting to go with the spirits into the light shining through the window. 

  				  I woke up a few minutes later in an icy hospital  bed. About twelve hours had passed. I had a tube in my throat and my hands had large bandages on them. I tugged on the tube in my mouth, unsure of what it was. I started to use sign language but with my hands in these bandages, no one could have seen my hands wildly gesturing. I was alone in this room at the time. A nurse finally came in and asked if I knew where I was.. Unable to answer because of the tube in my throat and hands covered,  the look on my face must have told her I had no idea of where I was. She explained I was in the hospital and that a helicopter had brought me in the night before. She said she would remove the tube and let my family know I was awake. She told me that they could explain where I was and what had happened.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  May 8, 2016
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?    Yes. Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function).   I was having an asthma attack that didn't respond to breathing treatments. We called the ambulance. When they arrived, my oxygen levels were at 23%. They put me in the ambulance and had me  strapped down. I struggled with the belts holding me down tearing at them so I could try to grasp for air. The ambulance technician told me to relax. My family says I took another gasp, then laid back, and stopped breathing completely. I had respiratory arrest, than a full cardiac arrest. I was air-flighted to another hospital.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes.  I could hear people praying for me. Some people I knew and some people that I did not. As more people prayed, the louder the voices were.  When I came bac,k I was able to recant what people had said during those prayers for me. My family explained that prayer requests were  going out over the Internet,  radio, and phone lines. Plenty of people whom I had never met were praying for me.  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness.   I felt just as alert as any other moment in my life.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was aware of everything happening in the experience the whole time. I was not aware  of what my earthly body was experiencing, but as my spirit traveled from my body, I was aware of that the entire time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Prior to this experience, my vision had been blurry as though playing a video game when your character in the game is intoxicated and the screen is hazy.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was better. I have trouble hearing but in my NDE, I could hear everything perfectly. I could hear  each prayer individually and as a group, all  at the same time.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes.     The tunnel was a soft vanilla-pink color, misty and slowly swirling all around me  as I traveled through it. With sound files that are silver-colored. I could hear the prayers of everyone as a whole but as I touched a audio file button, I could hear the individual prayer.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes.     I took them to be angels. They were not anyone I knew, but they were waiting with me until I was returned. I was told that I wouldn't be staying with them at this time that I would return.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The super bright white light shining through the window and the three spirits that were with me were equally bright

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm.     Through the waiting room window where the bright light was, that was this other world but I knew I wasn't entering it. But it was there.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Intense love, longing to be a part of the light and to see what lay beyond the window and to remain with the three spirits that were with me. I was also longing  to bring my kids with me so that they could see it too

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I saw the tunnel that people talk about but then I entered the waiting room. I could see the bright light that was shining throb the window of the room, the light of the spirits with me, but I was in a waiting room.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Just deepened my beliefs in the afterlife and heavenly angels who are protective spirits in my life now

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin.   There were three spirits in this waiting room with me. They were made of brilliant, bright-white light. It was the brightest light I've ever seen but it didn't hurt my eyes to look at it. I drew a picture of them when I woke up in the ice the next day. They resembled four pointed stars.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   I didn't know the names of these spirits but there were three of them with me. They were made up of this intense brigh- white light and stood together in the room with me on my right side. They resembled stars.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I felt this oneness. I felt the thoughts, prayers, and love from everyone

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes.     It was an awareness. It just was. It was a certainty where you just knew o.k., this is how it is. As sure as feeling a rain drop on your skin let's you know it's raining.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes.   Just that I wasn't staying there and that I had more to accomplish in this life. I knew that I would let others know about what I saw and felt.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists.     Yes.     Being there was knowing that life continued on. I wasn't dead, I was just moving on. Then I was told that I wasn't staying there at this time.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes The sense of caring from others that I felt  in my experience was phenomenal. That feeling of love and caring from people I don't know is still with me.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I had it before, but I have more ability now. I can still play the audio files at will. I have visions that I feel compelled to relay to people sometimes.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of it is just as vivid today and overwhelming at times.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I've shared it immediately when I came back to myself. My son and boyfriend were there with me. I asked for a pen and paper so I could draw what I saw. I've relayed what I saw and what I've heard to others. Some people have said it reaffirms their own faith in God to hear about my experience. A non-believer that I had met,   converted from atheist to Christianity after hearing about my experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I've heard other people talk about their experiences. I had an uncle that passed over and returned. His experience was different than mine though.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     It was very real. I knew immediately that it was real. It is just a sense of knowing, sure and certain

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     I've never doubted it. It would be like looking at my arm, touching it, feeling it, and seeing it. I know my arm is there. It's a part of my body. This experience it is a sure thing. It is a knowing.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       After you returned did you have any experience with negative spirits?        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1amy_c_nde_8259.html