{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1amro_nde.html","mytitle":"Amro NDE 2814","mylang":"de"}
          	        Amro NDE 2814  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Amro NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						998  Amro NDE  2814  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I always suffer from diabetes comas, as I am diabetic since my childhood.  This time my coma was different.  I stopped taking insulin as it is not available in the pharmacies and I was not obligated by food schedules at all.

On that night, I was sitting alone in the balcony just before midnight. I was very tired and exhausted, when I felt the beginning and signs of the coma. I wanted to enter my room, lie down in the bed, and tell my wife to do her usual job to relieve me and wake me up. But before I could stand up to walk to the room, my two children came 'boy and girl' they began to play with me and make some jokes. I didn't want to stop them. I participated with them in their playing around me, despite feeling that my health situation was getting worse and worse. I kept my feeling inside me, as I wanted to look healthy and good in front of them. Then my vision started to diminish and I couldn't move my hands or legs. I tried to speak loudly to my children, but they didn't hear me. They continued in their playing with each other. I tried again to speak louder, but it seems they didn't hear me at all. Finally, I surrendered.

I knew that something strange was going on with me. Suddenly, I looked into the street, but I didn't find the street or anything of the surroundings because everything disappeared. All the life around me looked like a tube. I was surprised to find myself feeling-lessly going towards the tube to a hole which seemed as if it was a gate of that tube. In this moment, I heard the voice of my child calling me. I turned my face. I saw myself sitting in the chair and my head is down on my chest. My two children were trying to wake me up while they are weeping. I felt a bit sorry and bit sadness. I knew that I had died. I didn't feel afraid, but the opposite. I felt a kind of relief I hadn't experienced in all my life. I had the strange feeling that I now know all the sciences and human knowledge such as medicine and engineering and chemistry. When I reached the end of the tube, I saw my dead father and my cousin in their full appearance. They were smiling at me and motioning me to come towards them. They were standing in a brilliant lighted circle at the end of the tube. I felt a strong willingness to join them, especially to my father who died years before.

I suddenly heard many mixed voices. Those voices caused me disturbances and bad feelings. I felt like they were an obstacle or were forbidding me to go further to join my father. I knew the voices of my wife and my children who were crying and calling me to return. I felt deep sorry and pain. I looked to my father who seemed okay. He spoke to me, 'Go back to them my son, tell them my greeting.' He held my cousin's hand and returned. They were talking about some things that seemed so far from me. I had a desire to return to my children.

I found myself suddenly flying upon my body!!! I saw myself lying down in the bed and my family around me crying a lot. I noticed a white spat around my mouth and my nose. I called to them that I am still alive, but they didn't hear me. I saw my older sister quickly entering the room and someone with her. I knew he was a doctor, and there was a girl with him. I knew from her features that she was a foreigner. The doctor was doing his job nervously - which I hated, and he took out from his bag a syringe and put it in my chest vigorously. I was shouting because of the severe pain, which I felt at that moment while a girl was trying to fix wires to my heart. I felt the whole situation was strange. I kept watching them. I didn't find my family in the room, just my sister, the doctor and the girl. Suddenly I felt a strong hit in my heart, shaking my body, as if those continuous hits from the doctor in my heart let me decide to go back to my body just to stop causing me that great pain!

As I decided to return back, everything became dark, I couldn't see anything, just I heard the doctor talking to the nurse in ordering manner. I heard my sister praising God while she was crying. I knew everything. I knew that I had died and I returned to life, I knew that I passed through an experience that only few people have had. I felt sad as I tried to get back all the knowledge I had during my death but I couldn't. I knew after that my NDE lasted half an hour. When I measured this time with the time I spent in that tube, and meeting my father and cousin I felt it was like seconds, which surprised me!

I want to add that after I had this NDE I feel more peaceful towards myself and towards all the world. I became more aware.  I feel more love to all the animals even the dangerous 'not beneficial' ones. Every dream I see, it comes true exactly as I saw it. Even the people who are close to me feel worry and excited about my telling what will occur to them.

After this NDE, my hearing became very strong. I even put cotton in my ears before going to sleep, as I hear all the near and far voices. I became wiser and more rational. I discovered a philosophical viewpoint I didn't think of before. Many things changed physically inside me. What is really surprising to me is (I say to you without feeling embarrassed) that my penis became very big and my desire for sex became strong and increased. I didn't experience that before as I suffer from diabetes. Even my wife was asking me if I take Viagra?! But I replied to her, 'Never.'

I knew the death, I tasted it, I described it to people around me, I always say to them don't worry, no pain at all when it comes, but vice versa. It is a feeling of calm and relief and quietness.

I hope I do pass through this NDE again, thanks to you. I always suffer from diabetes comas, as I am diabetic since my childhood.  This time my coma was different.  I stopped taking insulin as it is not available in the pharmacies and I was not obligated by food schedules at all.

On that night, I was sitting alone in the balcony just before midnight. I was very tired and exhausted, when I felt the beginning and signs of the coma. I wanted to enter my room, lie down in the bed, and tell my wife to do her usual job to relieve me and wake me up. But before I could stand up to walk to the room, my two children came 'boy and girl' they began to play with me and make some jokes. I didn't want to stop them. I participated with them in their playing around me, despite feeling that my health situation was getting worse and worse. I kept my feeling inside me, as I wanted to look healthy and good in front of them. Then my vision started to diminish and I couldn't move my hands or legs. I tried to speak loudly to my children, but they didn't hear me. They continued in their playing with each other. I tried again to speak louder, but it seems they didn't hear me at all. Finally, I surrendered.

I knew that something strange was going on with me. Suddenly, I looked into the street, but I didn't find the street or anything of the surroundings because everything disappeared. All the life around me looked like a tube. I was surprised to find myself feeling-lessly going towards the tube to a hole which seemed as if it was a gate of that tube. In this moment, I heard the voice of my child calling me. I turned my face. I saw myself sitting in the chair and my head is down on my chest. My two children were trying to wake me up while they are weeping. I felt a bit sorry and bit sadness. I knew that I had died. I didn't feel afraid, but the opposite. I felt a kind of relief I hadn't experienced in all my life. I had the strange feeling that I now know all the sciences and human knowledge such as medicine and engineering and chemistry. When I reached the end of the tube, I saw my dead father and my cousin in their full appearance. They were smiling at me and motioning me to come towards them. They were standing in a brilliant lighted circle at the end of the tube. I felt a strong willingness to join them, especially to my father who died years before.

I suddenly heard many mixed voices. Those voices caused me disturbances and bad feelings. I felt like they were an obstacle or were forbidding me to go further to join my father. I knew the voices of my wife and my children who were crying and calling me to return. I felt deep sorry and pain. I looked to my father who seemed okay. He spoke to me, 'Go back to them my son, tell them my greeting.' He held my cousin's hand and returned. They were talking about some things that seemed so far from me. I had a desire to return to my children.

I found myself suddenly flying upon my body!!! I saw myself lying down in the bed and my family around me crying a lot. I noticed a white spat around my mouth and my nose. I called to them that I am still alive, but they didn't hear me. I saw my older sister quickly entering the room and someone with her. I knew he was a doctor, and there was a girl with him. I knew from her features that she was a foreigner. The doctor was doing his job nervously - which I hated, and he took out from his bag a syringe and put it in my chest vigorously. I was shouting because of the severe pain, which I felt at that moment while a girl was trying to fix wires to my heart. I felt the whole situation was strange. I kept watching them. I didn't find my family in the room, just my sister, the doctor and the girl. Suddenly I felt a strong hit in my heart, shaking my body, as if those continuous hits from the doctor in my heart let me decide to go back to my body just to stop causing me that great pain!

As I decided to return back, everything became dark, I couldn't see anything, just I heard the doctor talking to the nurse in ordering manner. I heard my sister praising God while she was crying. I knew everything. I knew that I had died and I returned to life, I knew that I passed through an experience that only few people have had. I felt sad as I tried to get back all the knowledge I had during my death but I couldn't. I knew after that my NDE lasted half an hour. When I measured this time with the time I spent in that tube, and meeting my father and cousin I felt it was like seconds, which surprised me!

I want to add that after I had this NDE I feel more peaceful towards myself and towards all the world. I became more aware.  I feel more love to all the animals even the dangerous 'not beneficial' ones. Every dream I see, it comes true exactly as I saw it. Even the people who are close to me feel worry and excited about my telling what will occur to them.

After this NDE, my hearing became very strong. I even put cotton in my ears before going to sleep, as I hear all the near and far voices. I became wiser and more rational. I discovered a philosophical viewpoint I didn't think of before. Many things changed physically inside me. What is really surprising to me is (I say to you without feeling embarrassed) that my penis became very big and my desire for sex became strong and increased. I didn't experience that before as I suffer from diabetes. Even my wife was asking me if I take Viagra?! But I replied to her, 'Never.'

I knew the death, I tasted it, I described it to people around me, I always say to them don't worry, no pain at all when it comes, but vice versa. It is a feeling of calm and relief and quietness.

I hope I do pass through this NDE again, thanks to you.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 8/13/2003  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.   Illness        Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I felt that I had an ability to understand any science and knowledge. Even the sciences I don't like such as engineering and algebra. I felt that I learned everything and I understand every invention totally, even the Music which I don't understand.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was conscious about everything running around me, then I tried to enter the dark tube, then I didn't pay any attention to what happening around me.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     The place was different to me, maybe because of the feeling of peace and calmness which overwhelmed me. And even the calmness which reflected on my father face, about the time, I was surprised of my absorbing all the knowledge and sciences which I felt coming inside me.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I have clear description, but my hearing standard is increased widely.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was not a tunnel in perfect, but long dark rectangular tube and there is a light in it's end.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw my father and my cousin very clearly.  They died years before.  My father looked more huge and in good health and younger though there is a white hair, and my cousin looked like the day he died in, I washed his body and buried him, he looked darker in my NDE, and both of them were wearing traditional Egyptian Jalabia wear. My father's wear was white, my cousin's wear was grey, they were standing in a circle of light in the end of the tube or the tunnel. They were pointing to me to come to them while smiling in trust and calmness. When I wanted to go my father told me to go back to my children and send them his greetings. Then he turned back talking with my cousin in something different, I don't remember.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was like the big lights in a football stadium, very bright but not harmful.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     نعم شاهدت أرضا مخضرة يقف عليها أبى و أبن عمى و كان يبدو ورائهما سهل متعرج مكسو بلون أخضر لم أشاهد مثله من قبل .. و شاهدت كما لو كان يوجد جبل صغير فى الخلفية ..  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       In the beginning I was sad because of my children crying, then this feeling turned to be indifference, then I felt sad and looking forward to calming them and being with them.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     I learned wisdom and rationality and to be flexible in opinions and to talk calmly with people. I became more loving to animals and all beings and plants. Even the harmful insects. My hearing power became stronger, my penis became bigger, and my sex desire increased more and more.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     A scary knowledge of what will happen in the future to me and to the people around me, all that I see in the dreams come true.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   After this experience the meaning of the unity of the universe, and every human being has a role or duty he has to do in his life, and I believe that no one dies before completing this duty perfectly. I believe that death is just converting one process from one world to another different world.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I became more sympathetic and caring to all beings, I became more wise and understanding and loving the goodness.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     All my dreams come true in every detail, I have the ability to read the personality of the people whom I meet and I know in advance what they will say, and my hearing became stronger.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The part when I heard the crying of my children and weeping of my wife, it let me hesitate to answer the invitation of my father, then I decided to return to them as I love them and felt sympathetic towards them. After this experience I realized how much I love my wife and children.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told it to my relatives and to the doctor who returned me back to life. My family explained it according to their restricted religious background, and the doctor listened to me and smiled and he said in English a sentence which means 'the experience to die and returning to life'.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   My father had the same experience in the 1970's during a surgery operation with a French doctor in Algeria. He told me that he saw the doctor trying to return the pulse to him, and my father saw it while he was floating above his body in operation room. He described to me that he didn't want to leave the room and he cried when he realized that he had died. In fact, my father's NDE did not affect any occurrence in mine, as I did not believe in the life after as told by the religions. But I believe that there is a life after death.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was and I am still sure that I have died and I returned to the life, I do not doubt about this at all.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1amro_nde.html