{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1amie_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Amie B NDE 4625","mylang":"de"}
          	        Amie B NDE 4625  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Amie B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2341 Amie B NDE 4625  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I remember being in an area where there were other beings, but I couldn't make out any one particular face or person. They were tall and everyone seemed to be glowing. I felt a TREMENDOUS sensation of Joy. I was happier than I had ever felt in my entire life. There was no pain, only this entirely consuming feeling of Joy. I felt like laughing it was so powerful.

The light was golden and bright and I could hear this music that is totally indescribable. It permeated the air - came from everywhere and nowhere - and is unlike any music I've ever heard on earth.

I could tell there was someone next to me, and then I was told I had to go back.

I then woke up to being bagged with the operating room staff yelling at me to breathe and 'come back to us.' I tried to breathe and felt a searing ripping pain through the middle of me and I started to cry because I was so upset that I was back.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  September 1995

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Surgery-related    Other: 'stopped breathing during/after surgery, resuscitated in recovery'  I had surgery on my abdomen.  The anesthesia made me go too far under and I stopped breathing.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I heard the music and felt such tremendous Joy. I just knew where I was and that everything was going to be okay.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     No sense of time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was brighter - but I wasn't able to see clearly really - it was like I didn't have enough time to completely become aware of my surroundings before I was ripped back out of them.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Very clear hearing, the music was from EVERYWHERE, not muffled, and in my normal life I am deaf in one ear.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I don't recall doing so.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Tall bright beings in white, though I couldn't make out faces, only figures.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Bright white and golden.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     it was clearly a different dimension or location but uncertain the level or location of it.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Pure Joy and Happiness. Elation.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Just a feeling of knowing, and knowing all would be alright.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am confident I will see those that pass again, when I join them there.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   Parts of it are difficult to describe, but I can remember it to this day very vividly.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Dreams of people before they die - usually the night before or day before that they come to say goodbye and then wake up to discover they passed in the night - or during the day before.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The music, the feeling of Joy and the light.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Shared with family immediately, they believed me, some are comforted some try to logical it away with explanations.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Some, but only through reading and hearing about one my sister had as a child, only in hers she remembered going through a cold dark tunnel.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I have never remembered anything so clearly and felt so confident of something as that experience.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Same reasons as above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1amie_b_nde.html