{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1amera_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Amera S NDE 9709","mylang":"de"}
          	        Amera S NDE 9709  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Amera S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5240 Amera S NDE 9709  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I knew several days ahead of time that I was dying. I was at peace with this inevitability. I had no fear of death.  In fact, death was something that I welcomed. I understood that death was natural and that my time was soon. I observed that friends, family, and hospital staff, found the situation distressing.  I was weak and on morphine, so could provide little help to ease their minds. I was moved from intensive care to the life support unit for about three days. I was moved to the glass room next to the nurses' desk, reserved for the sickest patients.    

  There were machines all around me and the alarms went off on a regular basis. The most common alarm was when my IV needle slipped out of my vein due to phlebitis. I was on IV fluids to keep me alive.  The problem was that the fluid injured the lining of my veins and ruptured them wherever it was placed. I drifted in and out of consciousness over these days. I was completely at peace, but had I known my death would be temporary, perhaps I would not have been.   

  The day I died; I was the only patient left in the life support unit. It was a morning. I woke up overhearing the staff talking amongst themselves about a solar eclipse going on.  They were saying that it would just take a few minutes to get upstairs and out the door to view it. The unit became very silent for a time; then all the alarms went off. It was very interesting, because they each had a particular sound that happened at different intervals.  As I listened, I floated up and saw a tunnel that appeared to be parallel to the floor. I floated, feet first through the tunnel for maybe 20 feet or so.  That is all I remember.   

  I felt fine and had no fear. To this day I have no fear of death. I was put back in my body and woke up surrounded by doctors and medical staff. I came back with knowledge of what they could do to save my life, and told them what this was. It was a medication that they were unaware of. This medication was available in the pharmacy hospital and was administered to me.  It did, indeed, end the medical crisis I was in.   

  The experience gnaws at me in a sense. I had time to review my life in the days leading up to my death, and I felt happy and complete. I quickly got over the surprise that I would die young.  I had a feeling of happy anticipation to be going home soon, although I know that it is up to God to call me home when my time comes.   

  If God has a purpose for my life, perhaps I have failed in this. I know of these things, yet fail to share it. Maybe it is God's will that I share what I know.

    One more thing: One day I was at the University where I was a graduate student. I walked by a display case that had an exhibit about solar eclipses, including the one that happened when I was sixteen. I did not realize that my memories of the experience were completely accurate until I saw this display. Perhaps the memories were repressed somewhat, before that time. It was a lot to integrate.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 February 26, 1979  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness Surgery-related       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   acute medical crisis  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I am often conscious and alert and always have been  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?     I don't know  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       No  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I don't know  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't know  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     grey mostly void of light  nothing to see  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       marvel  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     not everything. everything that my unique soul has capacity to comprehend when in a particular kind of state of grace that is a part of my being and life.  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No     I was aware that my life was being aborted due to how events had transpired. I felt joy at the impending reunion in the days leading up to death. there was exhilaration at the impending freedom.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian   just regular  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have respect and reverence for those who dedicate their lives to God and God's teachings.  

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   regular  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I did not have any beliefs.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     knowledge of the importance of a stainless soul is more deeply embedded in my being.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I entered life on Earth as a human. my soul precedes my incarnation as a human. My soul will return to where it belongs, with beings of love, light, and goodness. I will be welcomed home with love.  

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I am aware of God. the knowledge of God is an ever present part of my being.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I had forgotten, as this is long ago, but for many years I did feel that my fellow human beings would one day need hope, that one day there would be much human suffering, and that I was share comforting knowledge of our eternal souls, knowledge that holding firm to the beautiful light of the soul would ensure our return to God, knowledge that ministering comforting words and holding tight to integrity was the right path.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     I know that everything matters. I know that each and every moment of life, each and every decision, is important. it is best to live love. it is a tragedy for souls to slip into habits of dulling their senses to what is right vs wrong. to harm is wrong.  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     I know I will return to God.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     there is love on the other side of death, for those suffering as humans.  

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     it is true that God is love  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life     in general, I perceive myself to be different than others, and find this burdensome and lonely. I have a private nature, and now wonder if it has been a character failing to be reticent to share what I know.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes those I love and interact with are eternal souls to me.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I did my best   

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience. The event is indelibly marked in my being. I remember it vividly and clearly.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     more than I care to think about or recall. gifts can be a burden. awareness can be a burden. these things are very difficult to integrate. I live on this side of the veil, and much of my life has been very difficult. the other side is easier.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        No  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I was in my 30's perhaps, when there was a conference regarding 'walk-ins' in town. I shared a bit with a couple strangers who declared me to be a walk-in, which they defined as a soul that enters a body that can be brought back to life. I am just me. I was born me, died, and was sent back. I tried to share my experience with spiritual people and/or friends over the years, but my experience was perceived as rather boring, as I did not bring back any info of value to them. At this time, I am struggling to find meaning to the events that have transpired in my life, which are all in all, 'way out there'. I have been talking about my life, including the death at age 16. I mention the death in the context of my knowledge of the sacredness of life. that life is sacred is awareness that is not a part of all human beings, it seems. the capacity that some human beings have to hurt others is a painful reality for me. why am I here, amongst those who do not know right from wrong? I don't know the answer to this question, and I am so weary of the things that enter my life due to such ignorance on the part of fellow human beings. yes, I can forgive, but it hurts. it hurts a lot. it hurts to be hurt and it hurts to know that nothing is more important than returning to God with our souls bright and shining, with no fear and no hidden shadows. people don't know they are harming themselves by choosing paths that lead.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had never heard of NDE's as a teenager. I did have awareness and what would be regarded as spiritual giftedness prior to the death experience.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I died and was sent back to my body. this is a fact.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     knowing is an internal experience that those who are born as humans with remembrance of the divinity of the indwelling soul have. I had this knowledge from my earliest memories as a very young child.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   there are other occasions in which I have been out of my body.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No   

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1amera_s_nde.html