{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1amie_fde.html","mytitle":"Amie FDE 8164","mylang":"de"}
          	        Amie FDE 8164  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Amie FDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification FDE  						4260 Amie FDE 8164  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was like any other day. I woke up around 10 or 11 o'clock in the morning and got myself ready for the day. Then, I drove over to my boyfriend's house. My boyfriend and I would drive to work together because we worked in the same place. We spent a couple hours at his house playing a video game and watching a TV show called 'The Walking Dead' since we didn't have to be at work until 4:30 p.m. 
 
 We left the house at 4:20 p.m. to go the Restaurant where we were working at the time. It was raining and there was a lot of traffic because high school and middle school just ended for the day. We were driving about 55 mph in a 50 mph zone. On the left hand side of the road, there was a bunch of tall palm trees in the median in the middle of the street. I remember we lit a cigarette and were laughing but I don't remember what why we were laughing. The car in the right lane behind us decided that it wanted to get into another lane. When the driver hit us from behind, the driver's car pushed my car like it was hydro gliding toward oncoming traffic. 
 
 I remember going blank, like I was conscious but I wasn't. Everything went silent. While the car was hydro gliding, I remember looking to my right and seeing a tree and thinking that this is it; I'm going to die. At that second, everything flashed before my eyes. I remembered everything that happened to me in my life, like flash backs in fast forward motion. But at the same time, I remember looking at my boyfriend and then being in a very observant state, I guess you would call it. Then everything went blank again. 
 
 Instead of hitting the tree on the right of us, my car hit the median and then went airborne, hitting the tree in front of that one. Then the car flipped several times. It was as if I was in a deep sleep. I felt peaceful and I wasn't scared. It’s weird because I remember the accident as if I was awake the whole time. I remember the street and the left side of my car hitting the ground. I remember the look on my boyfriend's face when we were flipping. His face looked emotionless, but calm. I remember the tea bottle floating around in my car. I remember when the accident was over and we were still in the car upside down. 
 
 I felt as if I saw the outside of my car before I actually saw it. Like I saw the smoke coming out of the car, what my car looked like, and the people who were in their cars that were around us. I couldn't hear anything or smell anything. It was as if time stopped. Then all of a sudden for a second I heard my boyfriend telling me to get out of the car, but then I went back into this blank state again. Then, I was on my feet and out of the car. I don't remember unbuckling my seatbelt and crawling out. At the same time, I do remember feeling my seatbelt around me and the release button. I remember feeling around my door but not being able to open it. I remember the feeling of broken glass poking and scraping the palms of my hands but I don't remember getting out of the car. 
 
 When I got out and came back to my senses, I felt the chaos. Everyone got out of their cars and trucks to see if we were o.k. My car was beyond totaled. Luckily, my boyfriend walked away without a scratch. I had a big lump on my head and days later, I had two black and blue eyes. The car that hit us ran and no one had information on the car and didn't even see the car had hit us. My car? All my windows beside the passengers and drivers sides were gone. My front windshield caved inward and my sunroof caved in as well. I really can't believe that we are alive, especially later when my mom's friend got into a similar accident and lost his life.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Sept  23, 2016
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident.         Life threatening event, but not clinical death   car accident

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes During my event, I felt as if I saw the people in their cars while I was still in the car.  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness.   It's hard to explain.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       hard to explain

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     It felt as if time either stopped or was moving in slow motion.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was more observant but at the same time, I couldn't see anything.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was silent the whole time.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt calm but peaceful at the same time

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others.     I felt as if in that moment, it seemed as if everything was like meant to be.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control.  My mind replayed every important life moment that happened to me from beginning to now.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I didn't believe that flashbacks happen but they do. I always believed in an out of body experience. I just didn't think it would have me think it happen to me.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       Unknown  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Uncertain.     I don't really understand what happened to me.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I moderately fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     That I wouldn't want to go through this with anyone else but my boyfriend. Although this was a tramatic event, I'm glad that he took care of me through it all. Also during my flashbacks, I saw him.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life.     I have more questions about what happens after you die, if I had an OBE, and if this is what happens when it does happen.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It is hard to express my feelings and perception during the event and my physical  state of awareness.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, my flashbacks, my boyfriend's face as we were flipping, and how I saw the tree before we hit one.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes.    When I first told someone my experience it was a month afterwards. Some people were interested and some thought I was crazy.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     I know my experience was definitely real, I just don't know how to put my views in words.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     I don't know what to believe

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain.   I don't understand the question      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1amie_fde.html