{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1amber_i_nde.html","mytitle":"Amber I NDE 7791","mylang":"de"}
          	        Amber I NDE 7791  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Amber I NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4028 Amber I NDE 7791  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My boyfriend, Marty, was driving and we were involved in a serious car accident.  I was treated at a local emergency facility.  Once the diagnosis of serious injury was determined, they transported me to a larger hospital.  That evening in the hospital my dad and boyfriend were sitting at the foot of my bed.  I was not able to open my eyes or speak, even though I wanted to interact with them.  

I was outside of my body and looking at my body from above.  I remember trying hard to get my body to cooperate without success.  My dad was speaking to Marty and saying that I was very ashen.  I was watching and listening to his remarks from the corner of the wall and ceiling.  I could see the pain on his face.  I could feel all fear, confusion and frustration that was residing within him.  He was fearful at the thought of loosing me.  I wanted to reassure him that I was fine.  My physical body was fine.  I felt no pain and had no fear.  I was not physically suffering and wanted him to know this.  I wanted to relieve his pain and reassure him.

At the time my parents were involved in a bitter divorce and were not actively supporting one another.  My mother was a nurse at the hospital.  My mom was in the hall engaged in a  loud and angry discussion with one of my doctors.  I was in the hall spiritually listening.  I witnessed my mother's frustration, fear, and concern.  I wanted to relieve her consternation.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  6/16/78

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain.  Accident.         Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   I had serious injury and many broken bones due to the accident.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It was much clearer.  My awareness was not anything I have ever experienced since because I was able to feel all thoughts and speech.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Once I was higher in the room, near the ceiling, I was more in tune to others' emotions and fears; both spoken and unspoken.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     During the actual accident, the life movie was sped up.  During the hospital experience, I was not aware of time.  I could not tell the duration of time, whether it was long, short, or how long the experience lasted.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I'm not sure that I was seeing with my eyes at all times.  Perhaps having a more laser-vision, better able to zero in on what was necessary to be seen or heard.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I guess hearing was assimilated differently than in normal life because I was able to hear distant conversation.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Certainly, a lack of fear or injury for my physical self. Concern and the desire to relieve any burden, sadness from my parents was very important.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I had a great sense of peace about myself.  Life was fine.   My concern for my parents and their peace was important.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Just before the accident, immediately, or as it was happening, my life played before me as a movie.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   Christian however not actively going to church

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     At the time I was a teenager, however I was involved with the Methodist church. I do not attend a church but feel that my belief system and spirituality is much stronger because of the experience.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   Spiritual - love aspects of Buddhism, Christianity, Tao, Hindu

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I was a marginally troubled teenager at the time as a result of rebelling from my parents difficulties. I am grateful for the experience and the spiritual knowledge given me through the experience.  It was an experience that opened doors throughout my life since the accident.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     An appreciation of love, or our connection to one another.  We are all connected.  What happens to one happens to us all. I am more aware of the choices that I make, and how those choices will affect everyone.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     It was very apparent that we are all connected to one another.  Our feelings, emotions are very mch tied to each other.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     Obviously there is something larger than myself assisting me in this experience.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     My experience demonstrated to me that love transcends all time and distance.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am much more invested in all of my relationships.  At times, I feel that I don't fit in, as others don't seem to contain the passion that I have. I also have a problem with time and dates since the event.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It's difficult to describe in words and accurately describe the experience.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  It was a different type of clarity.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I also believe that the experience opened doors to possessing gifts of being  sensitive, the ability, at times, to 'see' events that are going to happen to important people in my life, as well as being guided to healing and medium-ship.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of it!! I am very grateful for the experience!!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I believe it was a few years afterwards, as I held the experience close to myself in order to process it.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was hospitalized for many weeks after and I was not too aware of much until after I was released.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know what I saw, however, again, I was undergoing a lot of trauma so was not always aware of it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1amber_i_nde.html