{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1amber_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Amber D NDE 3519","mylang":"de"}
          	        Amber D NDE 3519  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Amber D NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1571 Amber D NDE 3519  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My friend, my daughter and I went to the Black Rock desert for a festival. On the fourth day we packed up our camp, it was very hot and sunny and by the time we were driving off the play area I was feeling very sick. Along the whole drive to Reno (two-plus hours away) I kept pouring water over my body, and drinking as much as possible. I did not know that it's possible to become sicker from drinking so much water (without electrolytes, etc.) because drinking too much water makes the body loose minerals, which are needed for health. I became sicker and sicker. We drove to a hotel room, and after getting even sicker, in the parking lot a homeless woman came along and yelled at my friend that if he didn't take me to the hospital she was going to do it. I insisted that I would be fine and wanted to go to the hotel room. After about a half hour there my body had started to sort of 'sink' through the bed, and I knew that I had to go to the hospital. I blacked out during most of the hospital experience. 

Every so often, I would gain consciousness, eventually I was hooked up to an IV, but most of the time I was unaware of my surroundings. At some point, I remember a bunch of doctors and nurses standing over me and trying to get me to speak, but my words were all jumbled. I was very, very afraid of death, and this sounds strange, but I kept masturbating (unbeknownst to myself), with the intention of retaining my attachment to the earth plane, like starting up a car! The nurse kept getting mad and making me stop! Anyway. Eventually through all this, the NDE happened.

I saw myself walking down a HUGE yellow, tunnel that seemed to be made of yellow glass or light, the whole thing was glowing. It's like being in something the size of an airplane hangar, only taller, and as I mentioned it is a great big tunnel. I'm peacefully walking along, going to my death. Of course as humans we are very reliant on the breath, on air, breathing. Yet I realize that I am not breathing anymore, only rather than producing terror, as I had always imagined not breathing would do, instead it's an incredibly blissful feeling! That experience of the bliss of living without the breath was a huge relief and is a big part of the reason for a lessening of my fear of death since the experience of the NDE in my life. 

I should also mention that I have two children, ages two and eleven at the time of this event. I was horribly worried about leaving them and very much wanted to continue being their mother! I saw a shadowy line, made out of the same yellow material of the tunnel, only darker yellow. I knew that if I stepped over the line I would not return to this life. At that moment, I heard a voice that said, 'Death is just a change of mind,' and knew instantly that I would continue to live and raise my children. Afterwards I awakened and began to feel more normal, though still weak.

The experience of the NDE was VERY lucid after the hours of confusion and blacking out. It was more lucid/real than any dream. Afterwards I was allowed out of the hospital the next morning. The doctors and nurses were surprised that I was fine to leave so soon. I believe that the NDE had both emotionally healing aspects as well as the cause for my quick recovery.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  September 2002

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Heat Stroke  Other 'Life threatening event, though unsure if it was a 'clinical death'.'  Became sick with heat exhaustion.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   In the wee hours of the morning.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       In the wee hours of the morning.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    'Heard' a voice.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Big yellow light tunnel.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The tunnel itself was made of yellow light/glass.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The tunnel was beautiful.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calm and then elation. Wonder.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     Shadowy line marked where we pass over to enter 'death'.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Spiritual / Buddhist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Spiritual / Buddhist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The state of the mind ('death is a change of mind').

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Less fear of death makes everything better.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The 'lack' of air/breathing.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The next day. They weren't particularly surprised.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I've read books about it.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     This is one of the most real things I've ever experienced!

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Meditation produces something similar as does other sorts of altered states.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1amber_d_nde.html