{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1amanda_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Amanda S NDE 789","mylang":"de"}
          	        Amanda S NDE 789  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Amanda S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						299 Amanda S NDE 789  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I had a feeling of not being able to breath.  Two angelic like figures began doing figure of 8's above my body.  I knew they were there to take my soul.  They worked hard until I felt myself above my body and I was able to breathe again.  I felt safe and peaceful.  I tried to tell all the doctors that I was okay now but nobody could hear me.  My husband was moving up beside me and moments after he started holding my hand the white light and all the beauty surrounding me was gone like a light switch - I woke up in the intensive care unit a few weeks later. My twins also had to be revived.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    12/11/01

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Childbirth  Pulmonary embolism at 34 weeks pregnant.  Went into DIC, had a foot long clot caught in heart that made me continually code over 3 hours until put on life support  Clinical death Pulmonary embolism shut down my lungs and heart.  Even when shock was used I would code again because of the clot still in the heart.  They had an organ donation team there and the chaplain as well as my husband - all in the room when I went out of my body.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I could see myself on the table and people running around franticly.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      None other than the out of body.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Just the two angelic figures.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   White almost silver-ish light was all around the angelic-like figures.  Once I was above myself, I too was in this light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It seemed rather brief and I felt angry when I went back in my body because I felt so wonderful in the light.  No more worries just peace.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I know that once my husband went up and held my hand the light went off.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I do not fear death.  I believe I was at the 'waiting room' in the spirit world.  I believe we live on.  I believe we have spirit guides that are there to greet us when we cross over

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Somewhat hard for others to comprehend.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Best was getting a glimpse at heaven and coming back with a renewed sense of life.  The chance to make things right.  I am not sure what the worst was other than the angry feelings I had when I was put back into my physical body after being in such a wonderful place.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    People are amazed and have lots of questions.  Some feel comforted by it.  Some are not sure what they think about life after death.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1amanda_s_nde.html