{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1amanda_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Amanda Possible NDE 6830","mylang":"de"}
          	        Amanda Possible NDE 6830  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Amanda Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3439 Amanda Possible NDE 6830  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					What happened is that on 31st December 2010, in the midst of the New Year celebrations, I got a terrible pain. I had had it before. I was with my family attending mass, to give thanks to the Lord for another year. Now we were praying ‘Our Father’, I felt a very intense pain on the right side of my stomach. I thought that possibly I was getting the flu. The pain was similar to what I had experienced on previous occasions; I had already been hospitalized with it.  This time it was different, though. I was very scared to go to hospital, though I knew it was necessary. Just as we were having dinner, I asked my husband to please take me to the hospital. He told me to wait and I did for a bit. Then I started to tell my son that although I might leave him here, he must promise to finish his career training and also look after his brother.

Previously he had never cried when I was hospitalized, but he began to cry like never before. The moment came when I said to my husband that I could not hang on any longer, please to take me to the hospital.

We left for the hospital and, on arrival; I was put in a wheelchair. I told the assistant that I was at the end of my tether; could he please speak to a doctor. He replied that it was New Year's Eve and there were very few staff. Finally, a doctor arrived and told me that I had eaten too much during the festive season. I was helpless from so much pain.

I was taken to a small room with a few reclining chairs, given a sedative and a Ranitidine tablet. I spent the whole wretched night. 

Next day was January 1st and there were hardly any doctors. I really felt that I was dying; in this cold room, I saw the face of death. I grew very afraid and closed my eyes so as not to see it.  It was a map (on the wall), but every line on that map, when looked at from that distance for a while, was the face of death. Finally, I couldn't take the pain any more. Each hour was interminable. At last, a doctor came and did an analysis, saying that everything was really, really fine. The blood test, urine sample and ultrasound showed nothing and, as I had no fever, I was told that all I had was stress. 

The night shift workers came on for January 1, 2011, and my pain was getting more unbearable by the minute. I could hardly walk a step and could not stay seated or lying down at all; I was in great pain. The night doctor sent me for more tests: blood, urine and a further ultrasound. In the early hours, he asked me how I felt. I could hardly speak. He said everything was fine but I thought I would certainly die.

The morning of January 2, 2011, came and a new shift began. I could hardly walk the pain was so bad. I felt I was dying. Finally, a doctor said that they could find nothing but they would open me up to see what I had wrong, in the hope of finding something. While they were operating, I was elsewhere, in a place where there was a great bridge of light, very big, on the right hand side. On the left there was one made of fire. Obviously, I was going towards the bridge of light. Suddenly, I remember saying to the Lord: ‘Lord, let me go back, my children are still small, at least let them be able to get a job.’  I said moreover, ‘Not my will, but thy will be done.’

I awoke from the anesthetic and remembered that I had seen a deceased aunt and her daughter, who died in childbirth, and this cousin was saying to me, desperately, ‘PLEASE GO AND SEE MY DAUGHTER, PLEASE!’ The only theory I have is that the Lord is very great and generous with me; 99% of those I have asked have more than backed me up on this, looking at it from all angles. The fact that I did come back is a simple proof that I am sure he loves me. I should mention that before all this I had asked him to take me away from here, supposedly because I was ready, but with time I realized that no, I wasn't. I said to the Lord, ‘I want to be happy!’ That's what it really came down to. I spoke to one of my aunts about what had happened to me and she said, ‘Your mission isn't over yet...’ This made me think. If my mission is not finished, why do I have to be happy? One day I was thinking about what my mission might be, so I opened the holy book and it told me my mission is to preach the word of my Lord!

I almost forgot to say, my appendix was burst for 3 days and thanks be to GOD I am still here to tell the story.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  2 de enero de 2012

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Surgery-related.    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Yes and only 10% of people who have this condition survive it.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   I was anesthetized.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As I was going into hospital.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     The thing is, it was just one place. I don't know what there is beyond the tunnel.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It appeared like evening.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Distant.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I went alone through the tunnel very quickly, because at that moment I remembered my children and asked the Lord to give me the chance to come back. There are certainly two tunnels - one to the right towards the light and, on the left side, one of fire.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     An aunt and a cousin. I saw them but as if they were in a dark room and my cousin was very worried about her daughter. My aunt was behind her, she seemed sad.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw a lot of light - not all that supernatural, but there was certainly a lot of light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Solitude.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   Lo afirmo hay algo más allá ¡¡¡¡Dios exite!!!!

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   La  religión más  grande  es la  catolica, por que aferrarse  a nuevas. dice el señor  vendran muchas nuevas religiones.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     si existe porque  aunque no lo ví le pedi que me diera permiso de regresarme  y  regrese

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I moderately fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   el puente  es  muy grande .. el tunel de  fuefo muy pequeño comparado con el tunel de la luz

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        That my mission is to preach the word of the Lord.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    After a year and a half, I had just finished sharing with a lady who then asked me ‘What I had been smoking?’.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Experience was definitely real because I saw it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was real because I saw it and because I feel it to be real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It's something inexplicable.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I would add one question: IF YOU CROSSED THE BRIDGE, WHAT WOULD YOU SEE?      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1amanda_possible_nde.html