{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1amanda_nde.html","mytitle":"Amanda NDE 7203","mylang":"de"}
          	        Amanda NDE 7203  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Amanda NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3656 Amanda NDE 7203  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was having a painful period and by mistake, I was given an overdose of a narcotic. I went to sleep and I had the most wonderful unforgettable experience of my life. 

I saw my body.  My mother was coming into the room and calling me by my name.  She was screaming at me to wake up, while grabbing me by my shoulders. I was in so much peace at the moment, I felt the disturbing voice of my mother much higher than her normal voice. It was extremely disturbing! She left the room crying and screaming my uncle’s name. I saw him walking into the room and carry me out of the house. Last, I saw my feet dangling in the air while being in the arms of my uncle and mother.

From this moment on, I experienced a dark tunnel with flashes of neon lights of all colors, where I was traveling full speed in a form of a tornado. At the end, I saw a white bright light, as I got closer it got wider. All of a sudden, I was in a standing position surrounded by the most beautiful place I have ever seen: the peace, grass, trees and a very beautiful music with laughter coming from somewhere.  

Suddenly, I heard my name as I looked around I saw myself surrounded by nurses and doctor with an IV in my arm.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  at the age of 14 years old

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Allergic reaction. Drug or medication overdose    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I took narcotics by mistake at 14 years of age.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  My mother and my uncle.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I believe it was when I reached the end of the light, of course!!

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Colors were brighter.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Very loud

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     See above

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     See above

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calm, relaxed, comfortable, love, beauty

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   See above. I wanted to go on but my name was called.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   I enjoy reading Buddism, New Age and rosicrucian monographs after the experience.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Since the age of 14, I have read so many books on New Age, Miracle, Dreams, Hypnosis, Bible, Egypt, Life After Death, quantum Physics and others.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Don't understand the question.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I now believe that God is in me and that I don't need to be in church to find Him and that we all have the same abilities that Jesus had.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   Music and giggling, laughter

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     There is life after this one!

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     see above

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I believe more in Jesus.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     It does exist!

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     see above

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I communicated easier with friends who have some spiritual beliefs.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   There is no life experience that can be compared with NDE.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I felt psychic for several months after the experience and I began to read more and more about astral projection. Astral projection, hypnosis and meditation are what bring me closest to the experience I had.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The peace I felt is like no other in my life.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My mother was the first one I shared this experience with and I told her it was wonderful to die and that I didn't want to come back. I told her right away at the hospital. I have never stopped telling her over and over again.  I only tell people that talk about death or my friends who are into meditation or astral travel.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew there was something more than just this ordinary life we live.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   I meditate and do astral projection to try to see if I can ever get close to my experience.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It's an unforgettable event!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1amanda_nde.html