{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1amanda_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Amanda J NDE 21748","mylang":"de"}
          	        Amanda J NDE 21748  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Amanda J NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1552 Amanda J NDE 21748  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had taken over four hundred different pills and then laid down. That was on Thursday at lunch time. I was alone and planned it so no one would find me. But I was found unconscious on Friday afternoon. On the way to the hospital, I died three times. At one point I was aware that I felt like I was dreaming, and I turned around I was in a large hospital cubicle. I saw that there was someone laying on the trolley and I looked and it was me. I was naked and the curtains was open. I felt very cold. I tried to pull the cover over myself. I was rather annoyed that I couldn't make the nurses aware that I was cold, very cold and naked. I wandered around the nurses’ station, and then I shouted but never actually opened my mouth. Will please someone cover me up?! Please. My mum came round the corner with my husband and she immediately covered me up. She too was furious and I knew she felt my anger. Then it all went black!

Later on when I died again, it was like a dream. I saw my stepfather, who I considered my real Dad; he gave me a rush of love and told me that this wasn't my time. I had to go back. I was reluctant. I didn't want any more pain. I didn't have the strength any more. He surrounded me with more love and told me I would find strength and help. I just had to ask. I had to go back. I remember crying and then I woke up aware that I was in a hospital in intensive care rigged up to all manner of machines. A nurse removed a pipe from down my throat and then I felt my dad kiss me on my cheek. Later on my mum confirmed I was left naked and she did go mad at the doctors.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  July 2001

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?    Suicide attempt    Clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have always known things. Who was pregnant and with what sex.  I have read cards for people since I was thirteen. I am aware of spirits. I know when people are lying. I am very empathic with other people’s emotions.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Most people I share this get very emotional.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?       Uncertain         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1amanda_j_nde.html