{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1amanda_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Amanda G NDE 9395","mylang":"de"}
          	        Amanda G NDE 9395  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Amanda G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5036 Amanda G NDE 9395  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    Prior to having my first baby, I had been hospitalized before my due date as my baby wasn't moving enough. After a week in hospital and complete bed rest, this did not improve and as I was nearing full term a decision was made to induce me.

  I was taken to the birthing unit and hooked up to monitors, including a monitor inside to monitor any possible fetus distress.

  After several hours and what was considered, little progress the doctor decided to break my waters to induce the baby to be born.

  After about 12 hours of being in labor, I was wanting to push but the staff advised that I was not ready to push yet because I had not dilated fully. It was at this stage that I was offered an epidural and my whole world changed.

  While my body was wracked with pain from the contractions, the anesthetist asked me to try and keep still.  This was almost impossible but I did my best.

  All of a sudden, I could not feel my arms. No matter how hard I tried, I could not lift them. In a quiet voice, I told the medical staff who were present.  I was assured by the anesthetist that, "It is just your imagination" and "You will feel them in a minute."

  I thought to myself, 'Would I? Could I? No this is not my imagination."

  As it turned out, the anesthetist had punctured the inner casing fluid within the spine and the epidural was now making its way throughout my whole body and was not limiting to my lower half as it should be.  I tried to speak but I couldn't open my mouth.  So, I blinked rapidly, trying desperately to communicate my inability to move. Quickly after that, I could not even blink. 

  That was when they started to react and to take things seriously.   "If we have to make a choice, you know you save the mother." I could hear and was trying so hard to communicate, "No!  Save my baby first!" But I couldn't communicate with them.

  I heard the anesthetist say, "This is the first time I have done this on a pregnant woman" and "I am never performing one of these again on a pregnant woman."

  I understand that I had stopped breathing now and they were starting CPR was commenced.

  My body is flat on the bed.  My spirit or soul was relaxed and without distress.  I felt a pleasant, calming feeling, while my self was removed of all connection from my body; the body is simply a vessel for this spirit - nothing more. 

  I raise up and out of my body and I look down at the mayhem below.  I saw the medical team administering the CPR, and watched their confusion. 

  I look towards the ceiling, in corner of the room.  I saw a white light getting brighter and larger. The being approaches me and I drift away to it and towards the waiting room.  I watch my husband pacing up and down.  I know that he needs me so much and because of that, I can't leave. The being follows me and then proceeds to guide me away from the waiting room.  We go back into the room where my body and the medical team are all still going frantic about their work. The being guides me towards the bright light and what appears to be a tunnel.  As we enter, I stop and look to the being.  I say, "No, my husband and baby need me." I turn from the being and I look at my body.

  I move towards my body.  My spirit turns and faces the being.  I literally lie down and re-enter my body. My understanding is that this is the stage at which I am now breathing on my own. I think my medical records say that I "stopped breathing for 3 minutes in total."  

My nightmare was not over. I was given a general anesthetic in preparation of a caesarean which on closer inspection was not required. My daughter was delivered by high forceps. Since they did not know if I would regain full consciousness and use of my limbs, I was kept on an operating slab in recovery overnight for monitoring. It wasn't until the next day when a lovely nurse asked me if anyone had brought my baby to me.  After that, I saw her for the first time.

  I was taken to the maternity ward.  Every time I sat up, the fluid would drain off my brain through the hole in my back.  They didn't know how to fix this.

  After a week of this, they brought in the head of neurology and decided to operate again.  They put me under another general anesthetic, took blood from my hand and put it into my back.  They were hoping that it would clot and stop the fluid from draining off my brain.

  Thankfully it worked and after that, I soon went home with my first born child. 

  Through all this mayhem, pain, fear and confusion, I still remember the actual NDE part of it as a very pleasant experience.

  Occasionally I share this story with my peers but never to another woman who has yet to have children. People are always amazed and interested.  Often they are surprised that I am not very religious, but I have my own theories on that.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 17/4/1986  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Childbirth  CPR given   Incorrect administration of a drug - Epidural  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   During childbirth I was given an Epidural which went into the spinal fluid and stopped all bodily and organ functions resulting in CPR being performed to resuscitate me.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Could hear doctors and nurses talking - was all correct as nurses verified after the event.  I was a bit of a side show as they said the "light" had never come on in Maternity before. I think it was a light to do with someone in cardiac arrest.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Heightened awareness and at total peace. Disconnected to the physical situation happening.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Throughout the whole thing  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was unconscious  Prior to the administration of the drug my vision was normal  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Same as vision  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Through light into the opening of the tunnel  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Bright light in the corner of the ceiling which grew brighter - practically filled the room.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, calm, tranquility.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of No return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   I changed direction and chose to come back into my body.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Atheist     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am a lot more spiritual now. I am more inclined to believe in Chinese Astrology and reincarnation.    

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Atheist     

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     At the time of my experience I had No beliefs  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   White robed Male floated out of the light and beckoned me. The being was sent to take me into the light/tunnel.  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     Absolutely - I know there is more now. The knowledge of Reincarnation keeps niggling at me and it has since the experience. I feel like I am aware of the spirit within me which prior to this experience I wasn't.  

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     The light, being and tunnel and a clear conscience sense that there was more beyond that tunnel.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I was visited by the being. I knew that it was there to take me somewhere but I don't know where. I did feel it was a continuation not an end.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   My spirit was purposeful. It knew what it was doing.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Only that my body was just a vessel. It was there to carry the spirit.  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     Something exists but I still don't know what it is. My spirit just knew what it was doing, where it was going but chose not to.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     My spirit visited my husband who was distressed and pacing in the waiting room.  

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love for my husband and my unborn child  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       No changes in my life     A greater spiritual awareness. A knowledge that my body is only a vessel and that the spirit is what makes me who I am.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was quite a few years before I started to share my experience.  People are facinated, amazed and always surprised that I don't believe in the traditional "God" as a result of my experience.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew from the beginning that what I had experienced was real. It took me some time to understand it.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     My perception has not changed. Over the years my understanding and acceptance has changed. The situation I was in at the time was distressing so it took some time to get over that.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No            				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1amanda_g_nde.html