{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1alvaro_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Alvaro A NDE 5039","mylang":"de"}
          	        Alvaro A NDE 5039  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Alvaro A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2615 Alvaro A NDE 5039  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Guadalupe, Zacatecas, México, January 13, 2011.

Hi! I'm Alvaro A, I'm a man that has an unusual experience

I'm forty-nine years old and live in Guadalupe, Zacatecas, México now. When I was eighteen years old, I was living in Zacatecas city in the state of the same name in México. My father put a business near to home and let to me take care of this. I hated this job, because I was so young and I wanted to have a good time.

Well, near of late spring or early summer of the 1979, I wanted to go run around in the street with some friends. I exited the door of the business and I jumped for a big step. I leaned on my left hand and I heard a crack of my bones of my hand.

The pain was unbearable, and I went with my mother who was in the kitchen of our home. At this time, my older brother arrived, took my hand, and squeezed it, thinking it was a simple injury.

At that, I felt like my whole body tingled and I start to come staggering to a very dark tunnel, I felt so light, without my body. At the bottom of the tunnel, I saw a so bright light and at once, I stopped in kind of portal, I walked into this way. I felt so nice, without preoccupation, hungry, sleep, pain or other feeling.

I know that there is a 'presence' of somebody at my right side. I didn't see anybody.

I started walking, and watched to my left a kind of long stone wall with barred windows, full of people, they screamed 'Help me!' but their mouths don't open, I listened more. I asked the presence, 'Who are they?' and 'he' replied 'Not yet.' I continued straight ahead and saw a huge and beautiful garden full of people dressed in white, who were turning to see a sort of a stoned wall, from which there was a blinding light. This wall had some closed doors. One more time I asked: 'Who are they?' and the same answer: 'Not yet.' We continued walking toward the front of one of the doors and saw light through the cracks in them. We stopped at the door and I asked, 'What's behind?' and the same answer: 'Not yet.'

At that time, began the return, at the same breakneck speed that I left my body. I felt the entrance in this. I saw my older brother concerned, telling me: 'You got purple, you fell, not breathing, and I gave resuscitation to you for about two minutes.'

We went to the hospital; they took an x-ray, which had the bone of the middle finger on the palm of left hand broken. It was immobilized in a cast and healed. But the success, it was not a dream. I in reality felt it.

I hope that I have expressed my own experience to you.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Aproximadamente 18 de Junio de 1979

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   When my brother tried to help me.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   At the time of entering the portal and the study in this site.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At the time of entering the portal and the study in this site.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I felt there was a long time, but were only a minute or two.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     This answer in Spanish doesn't correspond to the question, but the answer is: the vision was normal, but the images are recording permanently, not like in a dream.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I listened to voices and I know the precedence, but the mouths don't move.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A very dark tunnel.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Through the barred windows, in a garden, and the feeling of a 'presence'.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Very bright.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Un lugar lleno de paz, un gran jardín, inmenso y al fondo una gran muralla de piedra con varias puertas cerradas de donde se despedía mucha luz.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       For #10 above: I had an experience of separation from my body, like a suction of a vacuum.  It was the feeling of peace, lack of daily stress, if not go hungry or sleep the comfort of this site.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I have not had a review of past events.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I didn't.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Católico moderado

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I approached the church, but not fanatically.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Católico liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I approached the church, but not fanatically.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I think, that gave me a 'little' taste of this side.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Is not easy talk about of my experience for fear a ridicule, I try to behave well to others work hard and love my relatives.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The out of body, the movement toward the light, and the return to the body.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Well, apparently, when I have a 'déjà vu' (I've seen this before) is that something very good or very bad is going to happen, but I don't know what it is.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It stuck in my mind the experience of those behind bars in the expression of calls for help and knowing what that meant.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Like five years later. When I talked of my experience, they mocked me and I preferred not to talk back.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   I didn't know anything about this.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Thinking about of how that 'experience' was recorded and the arm in a cast.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I see, that my experience was not a dream and I know that other persons have had a similar experience like me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   I didn't.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       That it was definitely wonderful.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       The questionnaire is easy to follow and without difficultly describing.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1alvaro_a_nde.html