{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1alta_nde.html","mytitle":"Alta NDE 7318","mylang":"de"}
          	        Alta NDE 7318  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Alta NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3725 Alta NDE 7318  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					We were 10 friends (9 boys including my younger brother and me, the only girl). I was age 6. We were all the kids of that part of the small town. Most of the area was still wild with long grass, bushes and lots of small Port Jackson trees growing everywhere. We used to build tree houses and ground houses. The soil was sandy and in some places you get dark blue clay if you dig two spade lengths deep.

They were clearing an area not far from our homes. Bulldozers were pushing the small trees, grass on heaps, and then started leveling the area by scraping the sandy soil on to heaps. We played in between the work machines. I stood with my feet in the sand and did not move away fast enough when the bulldozer pushed the heap of sand towards me. Afterwards I was told that the boy next to me saw how the sand went over me and started to shout and wave his arms to the driver.

All I knew was that I fell and it was dark. Then I was in a wonderful, warm and loving light. It felt as if I was being held in the arms of Jesus; fully protected with no fear, but total calm. I felt as though I being held like I was something precious. I had a sense of timelessness and comfort. I had no awareness of my body or any contact with the physical world. I felt total peacefulness.

I do not remember coming back. I was suddenly in the open and being lifted up.  I knew my body was carried, but I still felt totally calm and content. I saw my mother's shocked face, but I was still calm and quiet as if it did not matter. I do not know how long it was before I could move again. I fully recovered with no negative effects from the experience. It confirmed the knowledge that I am never alone and always loved and cared for.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  cannot remember

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident.    Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   I was buried under sea sand for probably 5 minutes. One would expect darkness, claustrophobia, lack of oxygen. I did not experience any of this. I do not know if I died. After I was dug out, I was not able to move my body and had to be carried home. I felt calm, knowing that everything is okay, even as everyone around me panicked.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I felt totally alive from the moment I saw and felt the light even though I did not feel my body, or feel with my body, until I was able to move my body again. I was not conscious of the physical world, but more than normal conscious of the non-physical world.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I felt totally alive from the moment I saw and felt the light even though I did not feel my body, or feel with my body, until I was able to move my body again. I was not conscious of the physical world, but more than normal conscious of the non-physical world.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     It felt like it lasted very long.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision of the seen and unseen world was not the same. I did not use my eyes to see the light. I felt with my whole being, my soul.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I did not hear with my ears, again with my soul.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I felt saturated by a wonderfully warm loving light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No     I did not enter. I just was in it almost immediately.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt bliss, calm, safe, warm, and loved.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   I believed from 1st memory (~age 4) that I live a blessed life and God loves me.  I always knew I am never alone. I realized by age 5 that I was more different to other people than most.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant   I had several experiences at different ages confirming Gods love and care for me  and my loved ones. My daughter had an nde at 7.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     As a child of 6 I believed in a heavenly Father and in Jesus as our saviour. I was told they are one and accepted this at face value. The experience taught me that Jesus=God=light=love=peace,but at a level I never experienced before.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I felt cherished in the loving arms of Jesus looking at me with soft eyes. I do not remember being talked to. It was as if I just knew what I needed to know.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   Jesus

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I had full certainty of the presence of God as Jesus.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     The knowledge was of an existence with no boundaries outside our normal knowledge of the physical world. Thus there is so much more to being than what we experience physically. After our physical life in our body there is life outside the limit of our bod

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Being loved unconditionally

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     My self-esteem was greatly improved. Later on, I realized that I believed all people are inherently good. This led to learning that there are people that are twisted and inherently wicked. I like to learn and seem to always be a mile ahead of everyone around me. The effect on others varies from jealousy to admiration especially, since I am so different from most people's concept of what a woman should be.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I did not expect people who have not experienced it themselves to be able to understand. Words are understood based on the frame of reference of a person. Even at six I knew very few people would understand.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    When my daughter, at 7, had her own experience, I shared it. I was 32. (26 years later)

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     How could I not believe? I was there.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I experienced similar instances of the pure presence of God throughout my life.  At 17, I almost drowned while swimming in the sea.  At 24, during fever from mumps.  At the birth of each of my two children.  And on 8 July 2013 during a motor vehicle accident which should have killed me, but only caused one small hand bone break and bruises. I have been reminded that I live a charmed life.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   In various incidents as described before.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1alta_nde.html