{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1alok_b_ndelike.html","mytitle":"Alok B NDE-Like 2791","mylang":"de"}
          	        Alok B NDE-Like 2791  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Alok B NDE-Like  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE-Like  						947  Alok B NDE-Like  2791  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  My mother and I had traveled back to India to visit our homeland. During the vacation, which as part of my summer vacation going into junior year, we had decided to travel to the Himalayas. From the beginning, I realized just how magical the mountains were and how serene it was. Some of the greatest priests of the Hindu faith had once spent the term of their natural lives in those mountains.

We visited many different mountains throughout Simla and Manali, which are the foot hills of the Himalayan mountain range. From the first step onto the soil, I had felt a connection with the place, as if I had been there already. The experience happened when we were staying at Hotel Sukh Sagar in Simla, the beautiful fog city of the mountains.

I had been very tired from the day of hiking in the mountains, the windy roads, and fell fast asleep at the hotel. In the beginning, I felt my soul elevate out of my body into the surroundings of the room. Then out of nowhere, I felt my soul being pulled upwards by an invisible force to somewhere I had never been. All of a sudden, I was in a circular room with doors all around that were all red, a gaudy burnt red, and the floor was dark brown, it was hard to see - it looked medieval gothic or something. Then there was a figure that appeared and told me he was assigned to protect me and teach me the truth; to teach me of my past lives. Then with some motion of his hands we were elevated a couple feet off the ground, and a myriad of animals, peoples, leaders, and all other walks of life came rushing past through the doors under us. It was similar to the way that caribou and other group animals run in herds. He called himself 'Leftinent,' which I believe is one term also known as Lieutenant. But then he told me I was also Leftinent, I didn't understand what he was trying to tell me.

Then he took me to an old office filled with books and research and told me that was a book I had published in one of many of my past lives. Then I physically (in the dreamlike state) picked up the book and started to read it page after page, I could understand it fully. It was all in Latin, there were cross-sections of primates and pages and pages of just research of primates. I was ACTUALLY reading the book, the book I had written.' He told me I was a primatologist researching for the Nazis during World War II. He told me I was killed by them because I wasn't following the plans of the SS in charge. He told me I was a Ph.D. in primatology but was killed too early to finish my life work. Then I woke up for some reason, I was trying so hard to go back to sleep, but the more I forced it, it was harder.  I never had such a deep dream yet. I then started to think about what I must have been doing, and how could I possibly know Latin or even be able to see pages of it in the book I had 'written' when in this life I had no idea what Latin was ever about grammatically. I never saw a cross-section of a monkey in my life, so how can I all of a sudden see such a detailed cross-section? (By the way, I forgot, after knowing I was killed, I started to walk with a primate along an old eastern European street at night, I didn't know where I was going.)

It still keeps me wondering to this day, and I am confident that there is something a lot bigger than we are at work in this universe. It will be revealed to us slowly. This experience just continued to help me follow my Hindu beliefs of reincarnation, all is recycled - water, oxygen, nitrogen, and souls. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 'July 28, 2006'  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain         A Foggy and gray night  Other 'in an extremely deep sleep, almost unearthly (astral projection perhaps?)'  I had suffered from near death operations twice before in my life, one was two years ago, and another was a year ago. I had diverticulitis, appendicitis, and hernia in a three year span from my freshman to junior year in high school. This may have had a role, I am not sure.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was most alert during my discovery of the book I had written, I was reading it page for page, then I forgot it all after I woke up.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   I was being teleported from area to area, space-time event to space-time even.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The whole circular room was blurry.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard a deep voice, the voice of my guide. I also heard weird animals.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I met many beings; most of them were my past lives. They did not talk to me, but I felt they WERE me, so I knew them without communicating. My guide, Leftinent, was giving me knowledge by talking and showing me my past.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place     A blurry dimension that only the souls and bodies of past lives exist in.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was so happy and surprised. I loved reading the books I had written. I was a little regretful that I had to wake up.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control     Not of MY life, but my 'past' lives.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   I am a Hindu  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have more faith, faith in everything in this universe. There may be no God, or nature may be an embodiment of God, but I know there is a procession of souls just like the way the tide floats.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Hindu/Naturalist  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have more faith, faith in everything in this universe. There may be no God, or nature may be an embodiment of God, but I know there is a procession of souls just like the way the tide floats.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Knowledge of an ambiguous science I had never researched or knew about, primatology. I also learned about reincarnation and the procession of souls.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   I do not completely remember everything I had dreamed about. I had gained phenomenal knowledge of existence and an ambiguous science and lost it all; it must still be there in the back of my brain.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I had new found hope to keep looking, to keep searching because the truth is out there somewhere. It will come to me like it has come to everyone else; I just have to want it bad enough - to know where I came from, to never forget who I am and what life gave birth to me.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   Too much to describe.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Please call me to talk more; I cannot put everything down on paper.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1alok_b_ndelike.html