{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ally_m_ndelike.html","mytitle":"Ally M NDE-Like 954","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ally M NDE-Like 954  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ally M NDE-Like  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE-Like  						443  Ally M NDE-Like  954  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was at home lying in my bed because I was ill that day, probably a very strong migraine, I am not sure, and I slept. All I remember is that I saw a very strong white light not like on earth, it is impossible to explain the intensity of that light. I found myself sitting at a round table with a white cloth, at my left there was a person whose face I couldn't see, yet dressed in white, I was certain that it was God. In front of me was another person in white but I couldn't see the face. It was as if this person was eating biscuits or the like, there where crumbs falling on the table. The person to the left was talking telepathically in my head, I said I couldn't leave earth because there were people who needed me, that I needed to go back, that I wasn't ready. I do not remember seeing my life displayed, and later I woke up with a sudden shock and I felt truly how my heart started beating again and I started breathing again, but it is very, very hard to explain what I felt. It was as if my whole being restarted living. This day has really transformed me forever.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1989 je ne me rappelle pas la date et le mois

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain   Illness     j etais malade a la maison couche dans mon lit, mais je ne me rappelle pas ce que j avais peut etre une tres forte migraineI don't think so, but not sure because my heart had really stopped beating.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  I didn't see myself really but I saw very well the people with me, except their faces.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was sleeping but I'm absolutely sure that was not a dream. When you realize that your heart beats again, you understand that you were very closed to the death. But I was very lucid when experiencing those events in the light.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    The person in front of me seemed to be eating biscuits, and I heard the voice of the person on the left in my head.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     Don't think so, I only remember a very strong white light.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I didn't know the person to the left but I was certain it was God and the one in front of me I did not know either.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   A very white light but not like on earth, a very strong intensity.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     In a different place.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Very worried because I didn't want to leave the people that needed me.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     Except that life is very short.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   aucun

What is your religion now?      Moderate   aucun

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Uncertain   Because of the feelings that I experienced when I woke up, these were very intense.

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain     

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ally_m_ndelike.html