{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1allie_s_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Allie S Possible NDE 8080","mylang":"de"}
          	        Allie S Possible NDE 8080  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Allie S Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			4204 Allie S Possible NDE 8080  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					After feeling as if I couldn't breathe, I went through a white, spinning tunnel. In the center of the tunnel was a young boy with dark hair.  He was smiling and calling me to follow him. There was the sweetest draw to do whatever I could to try to meet him, but as I got closer, he seemed to stay just out of reach. I didn't know the boy, but there was a feeling that I loved him and he was the gateway to a place that would fulfill a kind of fairy tale for me somehow. There were so many promises surrounding the feeling he emanated, I kept wishing I would see him again every time I fell asleep at night for many years afterwards. I would have dreams about him and the tunnel, but they didn't hold the incredible draw and feel of the actual experience. After the experience, all the many dreams and wishes to see him again felt weak.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1965

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain         Suffocation  Other:  Woke up under heavy covers after feeling like I hadn't been breathing  Woke up under heavy covers after feeling as if I hadn't been breathing. 
 
 I woke up in a sweat and unable to breathe under heavy covers after dreaming that I couldn't breathe for a long time, but I was four so I didn't think about death or wonder if I had died.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   The highest level of consciousness was so gentle and sweet, like a magical kiss from the prince in Sleeping Beauty. I longed to reach him and see the place about he winked. It was a different world that was hidden behind him.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While watching the boy at the center of the spinning, white tunnel

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     This place of light and promise was filled with the most embracing love I had ever known. On a daily basis, I was an unhappy child, being spanked long and hard from my earliest memories. One day I stood on a pile of wood where my father was building a church. He picked up a stick to 'spank' me with and I knew I didn't want to live. I thought in my own little four-year-old mind, 'It's not worth it.'

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard only a deep and profound silence.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I was on the bottom left of a white and spinning tunnel, looking up in amazement at the boy in the center.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Just the boy

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Swirling, very white and living light

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Just the world around the corner, from which he seemed to radiate

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt awe, love, golden silent awareness, fascination, attraction and desire to follow the boy from where he was calling me in the center of the tunnel.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Unknown

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   My father was a preacher, but this was not consistent with anything we were taught at the time.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Spiritual love is more personal and exhilarating than I would have ever been able to imagine.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   I can go to church and feel the spirit, I can go to a Buddhist temple and meditate, but I use it for inner structure and development. Probably the best phrase to describe my current way of approaching life would be words from the Tohei Sensei, 'Let us have the universal spirit that loves and protects all things and helps all things grow and develop.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     This was a simple experience of a young girl; I've had deep experiences since then, one with the passing of my youngest son into that mysterious place, but none that fit the category of a personal NDE.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I was taught about some kind of abstract, spiritual love, not about this personal, enlivening kind of love.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I saw a boy with a magnetic, lighthearted smile that called me to follow him.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     Just the awareness that this kind of love existed.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Uncertain     I don't know if I even knew about death.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Just the feeling of being swept up in a flood of peaceful and exciting love, full of potential.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Love is my compass.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was entirely experienced on a feeling level. I was too young to understand romance, kissing, or any of that. It was my first ever experience of this level of cozy, warm, magical, love filled with promises of greater things to come.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.    This experience was on a feeling level and the golden feeling followed me for years afterwards.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have a sweet sense of connection with most people. I understand and value their hardships and gifts to our world. I also have dreams that speak in code of incredibly deep ideas. In one recent dream, I am talking with my mom, who is in heaven. She tells me all the secrets of the universe. As I peak my head back into this world, I hear a voice saying, 'Just like you can't peak your head into water and take a breath, you can't peak your head into the physics of this world without losing the memory of the other. As I wake up, I have only inklings of the beautiful things my mother had told me from heavenly places.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Just the feeling of the incredible love in our future. Like the light at the end of the tunnel, there is a light at the end of the world.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It seemed so private and personal; I only recently shared it a little.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     When it comes to deep and lasting feelings like this golden love, it means more than words or daily living events.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have had many opportunities to experience spiritual, romantic and motherly love. The golden light I found that day is familiar in all these kinds of love as well. Nothing is more real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Just the many kinds of love I've had the joy to experience.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       We all have something beautiful to look forward to, one day, not so far away.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I wonder if some of the questions, that are not pertinent, could be skipped for simplicity.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1allie_s_possible_nde.html