{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1allen_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Allen T NDE 3759","mylang":"de"}
          	        Allen T NDE 3759  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Allen T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1753 Allen T NDE 3759  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					As a child growing up I've often fainted at school or when too hot. On this occasion it was absolutely something else!!!!!!! It was an old girlfriend's birthday so we decided to go out to a Thai restaurant. At this time I was very much into healing, alternative medicine, ideas about life after death, what's it all about stuff, questioning my own existence, travelled at lot with my work then - musician - and had my adventures as well. I'd always felt that there had to be more to life than this!! I was fit, healthy and full of energy, always with a positive attitude about life, etc. The evening I collapsed was TOTALLY unexpected and OUT OF THE BLUE! After a couple of drinks plus starter, I started to feel strange but carried on trying to talk, etc. My girlfriend noticed the color change out of me. I went from my normal red face to a color like grey/very pale as if all the blood in me was going. I couldn't control a thing and could feel inside that I was panicking and trying to control my breathing. My girlfriend was really scared but couldn't do a thing, only see the color begin to go away. As time went on I told her I felt like I was dying and what was happening to me was uncontrollable. It wasn't fainting; it was something that I could never really put into words.

The next thing (apparently) was that I slid and hit my head on the restaurant wall and then fell the other way onto the floor taking whatever was on the table completely out of it!!!! My girlfriend tried to get me back by the usual methods but I was totally elsewhere. The restaurant called emergency services and staff and my girlfriend checked for breathing and pulse, yet neither was there. They thought I'd died and my girlfriend burst into tears waiting, hoping, the ambulance would arrive. 

For me I was somewhere else - firstly, it was very dark and then I felt as if I was traveling at speeds as if being on a magic carpet, traveling to different places at speeds, which don't exist on earth. After a while, I went into a tunnel, which eventually became brighter and brighter - absolutely unbelievable. When I stopped moving/travelling I was greeted by voices/people that I don't remember (and still don't) but where I was felt absolutely peaceful, loving, welcoming and real. For me I didn't what to return back to my body but after discussions with these people was told very clearly these words by one person, 'ALLAN, THIS IS NOT YOUR TIME NOW, THERE ARE THINGS THAT YOU MUST STILL DO ON EARTH, YOUR LIFE IS STILL AHEAD OF YOU THEREFORE YOU MUST RETURN!!!' I remember pleading with them that I didn't want to go back but to no avail - the next thing was I opened my eyes and saw my girlfriend who was hysterically crying whilst lying on the restaurant floor.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  about march 1989

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    collapsed and felt like I was going to die  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I remember the whole experience as if it was yesterday.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Amazing lights - not of this world.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I've said I'm not sure who they were.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Impossible to explain - totally unbelievable.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Total love, calmness, peace, happiness, fearlessness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   'always believed that there's one god/leader for us all. Church of England, none practicing...'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   'Church of England, although not practicing.'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        How close to death I felt I was and then feeling so alive/connected to a higher being. Words can never do what happened to me justice.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I met someone about three years later on an island called Boenholm (Danish) and after one minute talking she openly said to me, 'Have you had a NDE?' In common was that she'd had one too on the birth of a child and she told me she could 'see it in my eyes'!! She was about fifteen years older than me from Sweden.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I saw a doctor, went to hospital for tests and they found nothing wrong with me. I knew in my heart that what happened was true.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Life changing and incredible.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       There's life after death without doubt, but so hard to describe it. I'm so glad it happened to me and since I've shared my story and comforted many people who doubt life or are lost or feel afraid.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Why me?      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1allen_t_nde.html