{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1allen_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Allen P NDE 719","mylang":"de"}
          	        Allen P NDE 719  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  				  				  					Allen P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						238  Allen P NDE  719  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

After the trauma to my head I went to the house, my mother put a large ziploc of ice on my head, and I lay down on our wicker couch in the den of our house.  (I was raised in a large house, my father was a dental surgeon and all my uncles (but one) were doctors and surgeons (the other was a lawyer).


For the next eleven days - passing my fifth birthday - I couldn't bear the light and was very drowsy. The day I went to the hospital my family was to fly to Minnesota and my mother nagged my father to take me to a doctor a neighbor had recommended. (Our neighbor was a neurosurgeon. His son had passed away in his sleep at Harvard University from hitting his head on a marble floor. Within twenty-four hours, his brain had hemorrhaged.) On the way to the airport, we stopped at Texas Children's Hospital. To see the doctor. He came in and I was on the table with the paper on me, - you know the one. He got a penlight out of his pocket and looked me in the eyes as it passed. He never stopped looking me dead in the eyes.


He gave me a pat on the knee and said, 'Everything is going to be ok.' He said a nurse would come in to give me a shot. I always got shots any time I got a cut. I was ready when she came in. She gave me a shot and I was out.


During the surgery, I lost all vitals and brain activity for sixteen seconds. They were about to call it I guess then my heart started heating again.


I believe it was in this time I saw it.


I saw myself on a doctor's table. I was about fifty to sixty feet away from myself. There were no floors, no ceiling, no walls and as I sat there I could see what I thought was my sister start to approach from the other side walking about forty feet up to me on the table. We were both in white robes. When she came to me at the table, I then returned to my body because I saw her in front of me on the table. She patted my knee and told me, 'Everything is going to be ok.' I woke in intensive care unit, bald and scared and this nurse wanted me to pee in a pan. I started to cry and they dosed me up so I wouldn't move. I guess the next thing I remember was waking briefly in my hospital room, my mother beside the bed on her knees praying.  I never will forget the dream I call it. I made a full recovery.


Five children I knew as a child died of the same trauma within twenty-four hours. How I lived for eleven days only God knows.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    July 1975

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?    Accident  BIKE RIDING FLIPPED OVER SHOLDER OF 6FT TEENAGER AND HIT THE CEMENT HEAD FIRST  Clinical death SUFFED A SUBDURAL HEMATOMA AND WAS NOT TREATED FOR 11 DAYS. LEFT SIDE. 2 INCH DIAMETER BLOOD CLOT REMOVED BETWEEN BRAIN AND SKULL.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was in a white robe and saw myself from fifty to sixty feet away. There seemed to be color but no wall, ceiling or floor.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Sedated and in surgery.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Just the voice of the other person at the table saying, 'Everything is going to be ok'.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I thought it was my older sister but the person at the table was a full grown female wearing a white robe.

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Uncertain   Just white void in lue of walls.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   EPISCOPAL

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Eventually I felt more of a life purpose.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     A lot of deja vu.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1allen_p_nde.html