{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1alida_v_nde.html","mytitle":"Alida V NDE 3886","mylang":"de"}
          	        Alida V NDE 3886  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Alida V NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1841 Alida V NDE 3886  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was drowning and it was horrible, water was everywhere and I was desperately trying to breathe while at the same time grab onto the other child who had fallen into the swimming pool when our little raft overturned. I remember this whole scene was very ugly but at a certain point, it became beautiful with many beautiful colors.  After the many different colors, there was something that I have not been able to recall.

But I do remember perfectly the following, there was someone close by, I can't say who it was, and I was fascinated by the 'sun' that I saw shining overhead, it drew me towards it, it was irresistible, I wanted to go to the 'sun' but someone telepathically told me I couldn't. I thought that I was awake and that my body was still in this world, so I stopped for a moment and wondered why the 'sun' attracted me so, and why I couldn't go towards it. But at the same time I knew 'I don't know how' that I wasn't allowed to go to the 'sun'. So I decided to disobey that voice inside of me that told me I couldn't because the attraction was really too great. Then in a fraction of a second as I was attempting to go towards that light I was projected into my body and I heard some people who were telling me to throw up the water. As soon as I opened my eyes, I turned to search for the sun while I asked myself how in the world I had managed to open my eyes before since it was only at this time that I was seeing again. Suddenly the sun seemed so small and colorless; there was no comparison to what I had just seen before I returned to consciousness. This experience was so beautiful and I will carry it in my heart until I die. About ten years later I knew that other people have seen the same thing.<

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  25.03.1963

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Rischio d'annegamento.  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Drowning.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the experience I knew that I was still me with the same thoughts and desires that I would normally have while being in the physical body. I wasn't more intelligent or different in any way. And it was just for this reason that I didn't realize I was out of my body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I didn't even know I was in another dimension until the moment when I opened my eyes. It was only then that I understood and I also thought, even at six years of age, that there's another world here with us and another dimension.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was so drawn to that 'sun' that I didn't even see who was near me.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I didn't hear a voice it was more an awareness. I knew I couldn't go to the light.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I didn't see the tunnel.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The light wasn't around me but above me. There was someone to my right but I don't know who. I didn't look at him.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   As I already said a light so beautiful so intense but above all so fascinating that the real sun upon coming back to this world seemed insignificant and pale.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A beautiful feeling, an unbelievably strong desire to join the light, it was indescribably the attraction that emanated from that 'sun'.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     My Christian beliefs have grown after this experience and there is no room for doubt inside of me.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     My Christian beliefs have grown after this experience and there is no room for doubt inside of me.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I try to love everybody.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Certainly the gift to believe in God a hundred percent.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Everything.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I only began speaking about this after I knew that others also have been there. At first I kept it as a secret that I would never forget.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1alida_v_nde.html