{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1alicia_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Alicia G NDE 1062","mylang":"de"}
          	        Alicia G NDE 1062  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Alicia G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Secondhand NDE  						467  Alicia G NDE  1062  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I am writing this from two views, firstly from my experience and second from Alicia's view. On July 16, 2001, I had been sent out of town with the Army, my roommate, more like a daughter, was ill from intestinal blockage brought on from a cesarean section. The night of the 16th, she went into heart failure and went approximately nine minutes with no heartbeat. She was resuscitated and transported to the emergency room of the local hospital. I was informed of this via the Red Cross and was flying home on the morning of the 18th. On the plane ride back, at 8 am I felt something like someone had pulled something out of my head, at that moment I saw what I could best describe as an oblong fuzzy star, come from next to my head, fly up to the seat in front of me and then disappear through the roof of the airplane. Because it was such an intense experience, I took note of the time.


Upon arriving back in town, I went to the hospital where my friend was in the intensive care unit in a coma, with a prognosis of no chance of surviving. Talking with the doctor that Friday, he encouraged me to sign a do not resuscitate order, stating her heart had stopped again. 'Wednesday,' I stated, 'at 8:00AM.' He looked at me and said yes. He never asked but had this look about him of how did I know.


Sometime later Alicia came out of her coma; almost from the very first she told an amazing story of having gone to Heaven. She would look at you and point up to the sky and say, 'I went to heaven, and it was beautiful.' She would hold her arms out as wide as she could and say, 'There were lots of people, lots of people.' She would cross her arms over her chest and say, 'Everybody loved each other, there was no cussing, no fighting, no shooting.' With each statement, she would use her hands to emphasize what she said, and lastly she would say, 'I didn't want to come back.'


She passed away Easter Sunday 2003. I need it known that she had suffered massive brain damage and was unable to remember virtually anything, yet her memory of having gone to heaven was one that was never forgotten and one that never changed. I did not experience anything the day she passed forever, I believe the first time she was scared and came to me out of fear, but the second time, she had no fear, she knew she was going to a beautiful and peaceful place.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    18 July 2001

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Surgery-related    Clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Coma

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Lots of people.

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   A beautiful bright place.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Heaven.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Peace.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Awe.

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Some way to allow second (third party) tellings.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1alicia_g_nde.html