{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1alicia_c_fde.html","mytitle":"Alicia C FDE 22083","mylang":"de"}
          	        Alicia C FDE 22083  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Alicia C FDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification FDE  			1974 Alicia C FDE 22083  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was fifteen and I was riding in the car with three of my friends. We were heading to the next town. I was in the back seat behind the driver’s side. We were coming down a hill and it was dark and raining. I told the driver to slow down because there was a curve at the bottom of the hill. When he took the curve, he lost control and the car started to spin. It never rolled or crashed into anything, luckily. We ended up on the other side of the road in the ditch facing the other way. During the whole time as soon as the car started to spin. I somehow ended up outside the car about one hundred feet away on the side of the road. I could see the car, I could see us in the car, I could make out all the colors, and I saw all the cars coming on the road along with the headlights. I could see the car spinning. As soon as the car stopped in the ditch, I was back in the car. It all happened in slow motion and there was no sound. I'm not scared about it. I just don't understand how it happened.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  2004

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I could see myself in the car.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was fully conscious and alert.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Everything was in slow motion.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I didn't hear anything.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I knew exactly where I was at.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       None. I didn't feel anything, I just was able to see us, and it was more like I was calm.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    No one really understands, and I don't blame them cause neither do I.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1alicia_c_fde.html