{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1alicia_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Alicia B NDE 4765","mylang":"de"}
          	        Alicia B NDE 4765  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Alicia B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2510 Alicia B NDE 4765  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was going in and out of consciousness during the examination and when I was in the second operating-theatre I suddenly found myself surrounded by very bright light, where there was really no way to tell up or down. I was there for an indeterminate time and then suddenly I was standing outside a door with two little round windows in it (it took me some years to realize they were the doors to the operating theatre). My mother was crying and I could see her clothing stained with my blood, as she was the one who took me to the hospital. In spite of this, I looked at her quite calmly and serenely, with love and without anguish. I recognized the suit, shirt and tie, which my uncle and my brother were wearing. They had not been with us when I entered the hospital, since the operation was very early in the morning and at a time when they were working.

Afterwards I went into the operating theatre and saw a lot of doctors and nurses surrounding the operating table. I realized that they were really alarmed and were acting as fast as they could, but I watched them with complete detachment. I felt myself float towards the ceiling, and then straight away I was back in my body. I remember thinking 'get these metal things out of my mouth' and feeling very cold. I wanted to bite the fingers I felt in my mouth but had no strength. I lost consciousness again and woke up when it was already night, in an oxygen tent and with saline and plasma drips all over me. For me at that age it was a 'little plastic house'.

When I was better I told my mother everything that had happened, and she remained silent with her eyes as round as saucers, and could never give me an explanation for it.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Enero/1965

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I had my tonsils out, but the sutures were badly done, and when I came out of anesthesia I began to cough and the sutures burst. I bled out and they took me to a different, bigger hospital, with a pediatric unit. I arrived with acute anemia and in shock, so that when I was back in the theatre my heart stopped and they declared me clinically dead. They had to revive me with a crash-cart.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was looking at my mother. It is a sensation of extraordinary lucidity.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I cannot say how long I was in the light or out of my body.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     What changed was the perception of the emotions of others. It is as if other people's emotions were shared as a common feeling.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear with clarity, but above all one understands, one feels the intention.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I was inside the light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Partly indifference and partly an immense love for my mother, but without attachment.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     But I was only five years old. Since this experience, however, every time a relative is going to die I have premonitory dreams about it, and when they actually die, they come to see me in my sleep, and these have been experiences of the highest shared consciousness, incredibly loving and understanding, and absolutely lucid.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Extraordinarily precisely. About three months before my mother died, I had six dreams about her death. In the last one there was a wall-clock showing twenty-five minutes to eight at night. It was the exact time that my mother died. Many others besides have alerted me about problems which will present themselves, with such precision that I have been able to take precautions in time.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Ninguno

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I pray from the heart and do not belong to any organized religion.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I pray from the heart and do not belong to any organized religion.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That being out of the body and dying is perfectly natural.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am fully aware that we are born only to die. Material possessions are much less on my mind and I greatly enjoy the company of my loved ones.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The feeling of serenity.  I was hard to explain to my mother how it is that while I was in the operating theatre I was also at her side.  I saw her cry, and at my brother's and my uncle's side as they tried to console her but I described exactly how they were both dressed, and she was so disturbed that I never spoke about this subject again, as I did not want to worry her with something which she could not give me an explanation of.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     To mention one occasion, I was in the kitchen slicing tomatoes, my mind quite blank, when the image came to my mind of my daughter about to fall from a stepladder where she had climbed to arrange merchandise at her work. I felt my stomach turn over and my heart jumping from my chest. When she came home to eat the first thing she said to me was 'Mama, guess what happened to me? I climbed up to arrange the merchandise, had an attack of vertigo and almost fell down.' I knew it already.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I have already described this.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I want to emphasize that this was not a short while ago. From the age of five it took me many years of investigation to start to understand what had happened to me, bearing in mind also that this is not a subject one can discuss with just anybody.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     As I already mentioned, my late parents approach me in my sleep.  While in perfect health, I have left my body while sleeping on other occasions, and these have always been good experiences, or ones in which I have been able to learn about events which are going to happen, and with this knowledge I have been able to avoid difficulties.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   In the first dream about the death of my mother I approached the light from which a brother of my mother's, already deceased, embraced me with all his love and made me feel I should not worry about my mother, that he knew about her already and would be waiting for her.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Of my subsequent experiences, the most beautiful aspect has been a pair of reconciliations I had with deceased persons, meetings full of shared awareness, love and understanding.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       For the moment nothing occurs to me.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1alicia_b_nde.html