{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1alice_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Alice S NDE 21640","mylang":"de"}
          	        Alice S NDE 21640  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Alice S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1149  Alice S NDE  21640  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I had been at a party at my boyfriend's house and passed out from a drink one of his friends gave me. I slept the rest of the evening. When it was time to go home, my boyfriend came and got me. As we were getting into the car, he was behind the wheel and passed out. This was his twenty-first birthday party. I went around to the driver's side, moved him over, and drove the car. After about half a mile, it started to rain.  As I was looking down for the windshield wiper switch, I started to run off the road. I looked up and saw we were heading for a row of mailboxes. For some reason, I reached over and held on to my boyfriend around the waist, and said, 'Honey, this is it'. The car left the road and rolled over, again and again. I was tossed up and down. I could hear glass breaking, metal tearing and could see the lights reflected in the trees, as I flew around in the car. Something hit my right thigh at one time. I was not aware of my boyfriend being in the car. 

All of a sudden, someone pulled me out of the car. I started to cry and remember saying, 'I knew you wouldn't let anything happen to me'. I didn't know who she was, but I knew 'her'. She was me, and I was her. I felt such joy being with her again. It sounds crazy but we were going through each other. It was if we were invisible. I felt such love as I went through her. We looked down at the car which was upside-down in a little gully. I could see my body lying there, and my neck was at such an angle that even at eighteen years old, I knew I was dead. I felt no connection to the body, as I knew 'I' was not there. I could see my boyfriend lying halfway out of the car and knew he was all right. I remember saying, 'Boy, am I glad I didn't feel that!' 

The being, who looked like someone whose name I should know, started talking to me. She mentioned my sisters. I am one of six girls and we are all very close. She said that here we were together again. We had different names, but were all together. I loved being wherever I was and being with her. She told me that although we had planned for me to leave at this time, some things had changed. I was going to have children. My son was important, and when I was an old woman, I would be doing something special. She did not tell me what I would be doing or why my son would be important. I, of course, didn't want to go back. I had never felt such love and wellbeing as I felt with her. 

The next thing I remembered was sitting on the ceiling of the car, looking up at the dashboard lights and thinking, 'I'm supposed to be dead, and my neck is broken'. I was suddenly aware of severe pain in my neck. After that, I could not wake my boyfriend. I called and called for help, but none came, so I had to go for help. I had to crawl on my knees up a hill, as my right leg would not hold my weight. I somehow got to a house, got help and went back down the ravine to get my boyfriend. On the way to the hospital in the ambulance, all the pain in my neck went away. The car had rolled six times, end over end, before it stopped. All doors and windows were gone, and the roof was mashed flat to the back seat. The only part of the car not destroyed was the front seat and the part of the roof over it. We were saved by a small gully.

I had been at a Party at my boyfriends house and Passed out from a drink one of his friends gave me.  I slept the rest of the evening.  When it was time to go home, my boyfriend came and got me.  As we were getting into the car he was behind the wheel and passed out. ( this was his 21st birthday party.)  I went around to the drivers side and moved him over and drove the car.  After about 1/2 mile it started to rain and as I was looking down for the windshield wiper switch, I started to run off the road.  I looked up and saw we were heading for a how of mailboxes.  For some reason, I reached over and held on to my boyfriend around the waist and said "Honey, this is it".  The car left the r oad and rolled over again and again.  I was tossed up and down.  I could hear glass breaking, metal tearing, and could see the lights reflected in the trees as I flew around in the car.  Something hit my right thigh at one time.  I was not aware of my boyfriend being in the car.  All of a sudden someone pulled me out of the car.  I started to cry and remember saying " I know you woul'd let anything happen to me. I diden't know who she was, but I knew "her".  She was me and I was her.  I felt such joy being with her again.  It sounds crazy but we were going through each other. It was if we were invisible, but I felt such love as I went through her.  We looked down at the car which was updisedown in a little qully.  I could see my body lying there and my neck was at such an angle that even at 18yrs old, I knew I was dead. (I felt no connection to the body as I knew "I" was not there.  I could see my boyfriend laying half out of the car and knew he was allright.  I remember saying, "Boy am I glad I diden't feel that". The being, who looked like someone whoe's name I should know started talking to me.   She mentioned my sisters. (I am one of 6 girls) we are all very close.  She said here we were together again. Different names but all together.  I loved being wherever I was and being with her.  She told me that although we had planned for me to leave at this time somethings had changed.  I was going to have children. My son was important and when I was an old woman I would be doing something special. She did not tell me what I would be doing or why my son would be inportant.  I of course diden't want to go back.  I had never felt such love and wellbeing as I felt with her.  The next thing I remembered was sitting on the celing of the car looking up at the dashboard lights and thinking, "I'm supposd to be dead, my neck is broken".  I was suddenly aware of sever pain in my neck. After that I could not wake my boyfriend and I calle and called for help, but non came so I had to go for help.  I had to crawl on my knees up a hill as my right leg would not hold my weight.  I somhow got to ha house, got help and went back down the riviene to get my boyfriend.  On the way to the hospital in the ambulance all the pain in my neck went away. ( The car had rolled 6 times end over end before it stoped . All doors and windows were gone and the roof was mashed flat to the backseat.  The only part of the car not distroyed was the front seat and the part of the roof over it.  We were saved by a small gully.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    May 1959

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Clinical death .  My neck was fractured and dislocated, to the point that I should not have lived. This information was given to me from the doctors who treated me.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was totally conscious and alert to what was going on during the out of body experience. I didn't really understand it, but I was completely alert.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   There was no sense of time.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    As she spoke to me it sounded like glass wind chimes, but I understood what she was communicating.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I saw only the being who took me out of the car before it came to a rest.  At the time I "knew" her.  She was me and I was her. Later my sister showed me a picture of by Aunt Alice who had died as a young women. Age 18 (ready for this, she died on the same day I had the car accident only 30 years eairler.

As I said, she told me that my sisters and I were here together again in this life. I also was told that I had to go back to earth as I was going to have children and my son was important and I would do something special as an old lady.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   We were in this incredible light the whole time."	"Yes"	"I saw only the being who took me out of the car, before it came to a rest. At the time, I 'knew' her.  She was me, and I was her. Later, my sister showed me a picture of Aunt Alice who had died as a young women. At age eighteen - get ready for this - she had died on the same day that I had the car accident, only thirty years earlier.

As I said, she told me that my sisters and I were here together again in this life. I also was told that I had to go back to earth, as I was going to have children, and my son was important, and I would do something special as an old lady.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I felt my hearing was very keen.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I felt happiness, joy, love, gratefulness, wonder and sadness that I had to leave.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     When she talked about my sisters and I being here again, something in me knew she was right. I believed everything she said.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     Everything she told me has happened so far. My son, whom she said would be important, is now a young adult and is in law. What he does with it we will see. I am sixty-seven and working with a serious group on 'living from the God of our self'. I feel I am at the right place for me.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   She told me I had to go back. She didn't ask me. I was sad to leave her, but somehow I knew she was right.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   Raised Catholic

What is your religion now?      Liberal   I am a Spiritulist minister

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Did I! I broke off my engagement and went into nursing, which before I never would have considered. I went a totally different direction with my life."	"I became a Spiritualist.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Some of it. I was not sure where I was. Words were sounds, but I understood them. What was happening was unreal.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     They came on slowly. I started knowing I knew things before they happened. I could go to the movies and know the next lines that would be spoken. I then went to a spiritual school to understand what was happening and to hone the skills.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best was knowing there is life after death. The worst was that I had to come back.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Mostly with my family and close friends. Some thought I was nuts, but most of my family believed me. I was able to let others know that we are not our bodies, that there is more after life. We stay who we are even without a body.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I know that I experienced this to share with others and for me to know I am not my body. I am so much more than I know."	"Yes"	"I have become very open to experiencing situations that are proof that we are more than we know. I have walked on hot coals, not only once, but twice. once, holding hands with one of those sisters and dancing through the coals. I have been able to be a parent who teaches through action on being yourself.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1alice_s_nde.html