{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ali_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Ali K NDE 4229","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ali K NDE 4229  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ali K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2066 Ali K NDE 4229  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I departed from Istanbul to Giresun to visit my parent's graves. When I arrived, I started to sweat and I had back pain. I called my brother with my cell phone and told him my condition. I was taxied to the village clinic in Görele.  Afterward, I was transported to the city clinic in Giresun.

When I arrived at the clinic, I was conscious and soaked with sweat. They brought me with a stretcher into the emergency room and I started to see my surroundings darker. They thought my blood pressure dropped. I started to shake and I felt my arms were very weak. I cannot remember further.

When I was conscious again, a nurse told me my heartbeat stopped twice and the doctors had to electroshock me to bring me back to life. 

I told this because when my heartbeat stopped, I was in a kind of a tunnel.  I was on my knees, naked, my elbow on my knee, my head rested in my hand.  I was thinking.

I watched the 'me' in the tunnel from two to three meters distance from above. When I looked at myself I saw at the end of the tunnel a place with yellowish colorful mist at the sky, which illuminated the place like a sun illuminates the days and this light shined into the tunnel.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  6.6.2009

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   The nurse told me my heart stopped beating twice.  Both times the doctors had shocked me to start my heart beating.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I think at the time my heart stopped.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I saw myself in a tunnel.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light shone into the tunnel.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was witness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I became devoted to my religion.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I became devoted to my religion.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have become more tolerant.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I experienced that death is not unavoidable and I stopped judging the people I judged before. I started to go with life's flow and got more modest.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Immediately with my family.  My brother is very interested in metaphysics and UFOs, I told him a month and a half later. He read such phenomenon in books and found my experience interesting. He told me about the Near Death Experience Research Foundation Homepage.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   From my brother.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     My brother had told me about such experiences. But to live it is a totally different feeling.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     With death only the body dies and the soul is entering a new realm, this is not an intellectual idea or knowledge, this is a knowledge turning into feelings.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ali_k_nde.html