{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ali_a_ndelike.html","mytitle":"Ali A NDE-Like 8066","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ali A NDE-Like 8066  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ali A NDE-Like  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE-Like  			4197 Ali A NDE-Like 8066  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was winter time with heavy rain and wet streets. As I was busy fixing a power line in the street, I was suddenly hit with a 360 volt electric shock.  I lost consciousness. Fortunately, my brother happened to be around and he pulled away the live wires from my hands. As I regained consciousness, I noticed my hands and face were covered with wounds and burns. My brother had saved my life and I went home, praising God with thanks. 
 
 As I drifted to sleep at night, I suddenly found myself out of my body. I was floating over the rooftop of the house, from where I could see inside our bedroom. I saw my wife was asleep and my body stretched by her side. 
 
 Suddenly, I began to swirl and, after a short time, I went into a tunnel of light. I felt I was travelling through that tunnel at an incredible speed. I was sure I had died. I felt it was the end and that this was a one-way trip. 
 
 Then, things changed abruptly and I found myself once again on the rooftop of my house. I looked at our bedroom and saw again my wife asleep and my body stretched by her side. I told myself, 'Here I am, returning to my body!' I woke up in the middle of the night and checked my limbs and face.  I was there! Yes, it was I in flesh and blood! So, I wasn't dead, was I? 
 
 Now that I was confident that I was still alive, I went back to sleep; and never mentioned this incident to anyone.  However, it keeps haunting me and I feel sorry at returning to my body. I wish I had stayed in those lights forever. I keep asking myself, 'Why have I come back? What are the reasons? Why haven't I stayed T H E R E ??'  I find no answers to these questions. I feel sorry for this separation from where I was.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1993

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.  Accident         Other: Vie en danger , Choc électrique  Electrical shock

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  See Experience  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I felt a tingle at the incredible speed and hoped I would reach my destination safely. The stream of lights pulled me at light speed. My limbs were shaking all over.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the trip inside the tunnel

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I believe that the speed I was travelling had transcended time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was much better.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't remember hearing anything.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Lights from everywhere, harmless light rays and an incredible speed

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Lights all around and harmless light rays.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A radical change in my life and the beginning of a new promised life

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No     I recalled all my sins.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Muslim   Musulman

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I've become much less keen on practicing religious rituals

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       No comment

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Nothing I encountered fit any beliefs and creed I was taught during my life ...

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Care less about this earthly world and avoid conflict about money, women ΓÇª

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     I keep thinking about this incident all day. I'm thinking of returning to this tunnel of light. I'm thinking that all religions are cruel assumptions made by people trying to guess what Resurrection Day is like. They're picturing it as an alarming day, packed with severe punishment and tortures. They're scaring us. I feel they're exaggerating, because it's all about Forgiveness, Love, Euphoria, Goodness and Caring. Agony on Earth is enough!

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I'm thinking about love that I've left there. I'm so indifferent now about struggling for earthly things.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I felt certain that the place I was going to was very important. I felt much Joy.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.    No magnificent landscapes, but a feeling of spirituality that I cannot describe. It felt like a shelter, much higher than anything in this world.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Nothing worthy of notice, I'm an ordinary man, just a layman.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Since I had been electrocuted at 360 volts, it was expected that I would die. Yet, it happened that I came back to life. I'm grateful that I came back with a wonderful discovery.  I am instilled with Security, Peace, Love and Trust in the Beyond.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I've been thinking about it every day and I'm eager to return there!

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Roads leading to God are equal to the number of breaths of all creatures, says an old saying. One must not focus questions on current religions, but more on one's own thoughts, the philosophy of Life. Thanks for listening!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ali_a_ndelike.html