{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1alfredo_nde.html","mytitle":"Alfredo NDE 5064","mylang":"de"}
          	        Alfredo NDE 5064  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Alfredo NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2663 Alfredo NDE 5064  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I am going to tell you about my experience when I was only twelve years old. At the time, we kids used to play a fainting game, as follows: you did ten knee-bends with arms outstretched, breathing out strongly when at the bottom, and breathing in strongly at the top. After ten bends, a friend would grab you from behind with his arms around your chest and squeeze as hard as possible, and in a matter of seconds, you passed out on the ground. After a bit you came to your senses and did not know what had happened nor where you were, until you managed to center yourself somewhat.

Anyway, in one of these 'games' I became unconscious for more than five minutes, according to my friends, which gave them a terrible fright, anxious about the situation. Later I found out through a doctor that what causes the fainting is lack of oxygen to the brain, which was extremely dangerous in this case, as you could end up dead.

Now I shall go into the details of my experience in those five minutes. I would also like to make clear that I am agnostic.

Suddenly I was floating in the void, everything was darkness and silence, but I felt that I was moving in some direction, feeling an immense tranquility and ease, also enormous happiness, almost indescribable, but I had no body, all I could see was darkness. Then I started to see a far distant light and my happiness and placidness went on growing. As I approached the light, I could see that it came from a door, or a frame without a door, as if a white rectangle were drawn on a black card. The light, which shone from this door, bears no comparison even with the light of a thousand stars together, the luminosity was indescribable, but incredibly, it did not harm the eyes. When I was near the door, I saw a woman, outside in the void, with hair down to her waist. She wore a white gown to the ankles and beckoned me with her left hand, gesturing for me to approach her. This was all happening as if in slow motion, very slowly. The brightness was such that I could only make out her form and her transparent dress. I fervently desired to reach her so we could cross the threshold together; as this is, what I understood was going to happen.

Suddenly, I woke up on the ground with my friends calling to me in desperation, and I remember the first words that came out of my mouth were, 'Sons of @*^$! Why did you wake me up now? I was in the best part of the dream!' As that is what I believed for many years, that it was the best dream of my life.

Later on, and thanks to a program where people were talking about similar experiences, I realized that it had not been a dream; anyway, that's what I think.

This experience stays in my mind as though it was yesterday, and I am forty-eight now. I would like it noted that for me it is not a tunnel you go through, but a void.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1974

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    'Por aquel entonces los críos jugábamos a desmayarnos de la siguiente manera: se hacían diez flexiones con las rodillas y los brazos estirados, cuando bajabas expirabas fuertemente y cuando te alzabas inspirabas fuertemente, al cabo de diez flexiones te c  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   From beginning to end.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       From beginning to end.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     It was a void, and at the end of it a light, I had no sensation of a tunnel, I just perceived the void.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Infinite peace and tranquility and when I awoke a great frustration at coming back to this life.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Agnóstico

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Agnóstico

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   Slowing in events.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Coming back to this life.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I always thought it was a dream, then after many years, thanks to a TV program I realized that this had happened to other people.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The fear of death does not exist in one's mind.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   I tried many drugs in my youth and none of them even comes near to this experience. I want to make clear that at twelve years old I still had not tried any drugs.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1alfredo_nde.html