{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1alfred_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Alfred H NDE 4362","mylang":"de"}
          	        Alfred H NDE 4362  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Alfred H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2160 Alfred H NDE 4362  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					In the midst of the heart attack, I was talking with the emergency medical technician in the ambulance one second, and the next I was somewhere else. It was completely dark and void of sounds. I 'felt' completely immersed in an emotional cacophony of positive feelings. I have never felt as good when in my earthly body. I am convinced that I was in the presence of the Holy Spirit, even though I don't know the 'why' of this. There was absolutely no concept of time, pain, sorrow, fear, or anything negative that is associated with the human experience. 

When I became conscious after my heart had to be restarted three times, I was as secure and happy as any person could be for a few moments; then the reality of being back in the world came crashing down. In the years since, I feel as though I have become more cognizant of what really happened during that time. Little pieces of the puzzle have become apparent to me, securing my belief that what I experienced was real and profound.

The second and third heart attack fourteen months later also was an experience not to be forgotten. At the worst part of the attack, my vision changed from being able to see the myriad of medical staff attending to me to a view of a horizon. I could still hear the medical staff, but what happened during their attempt to raise my blood pressure from 53/26 was vivid. I could hear the Holy Spirit telling me to hang in there as I saw a mountain range in the distance. Describing this is difficult to put into words, but everything between the mountain range and me was jet black, including the mountains. 

Beyond the mountains was a very bright, white light, and I was told that if I made it to the white light that I would survive. I was conscious, but at the same time, I was moving towards the mountain range. Time was skewed, but very much apparent, as that was the measure along with what I could see to my progress. I was determined that I would make it and I eventually did once the medical staff had me stabilized. This happened to me twice that day with each heart attack.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'February 6, 2002'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Heart attack with no heart beat; defibrillation?

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During my first episode, I was at my highest level during the entire time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time did NOT exist. I was simply 'There'.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It seemed that hearing was not evident, rather, it seemed more like what I would expect from someone talking to me brain to brain without benefit of any audio.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The being was the Holy Spirit and he seemed to actually be a part of me. He let me know that his nature is the conduit to all that happens good in this life. He made it clear that there was a misunderstanding of him by humans on earth and that nothing happened except through him. He urged(?) me to share what he told me with everyone who would listen, and that I have done and continue to do.

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Our dictionary will not do this justice. I felt joy, security, confidence, love, warmth, happiness, and contentment.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Absolutely. My understanding of the Holy Spirit has changed and expanded beyond anything that I had been taught. I don't fear death, as I know that he is there with me every second of my existence. If I listen to him, nothing can make this life unbearable. I have a connection with him that I didn't have before. Clearly, even though I don't fear death, I have been inspired to always cherish this life and do everything in my power to continue it, even though I know that when I finally expire what awaits me.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     The emphasis on the Holy Spirit has changed the hierarchy of what I believed about God, God the Son and the Holy Spirit.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     The emphasis on the Holy Spirit has changed the hierarchy of what I believed about God, God the Son and the Holy Spirit.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   My sense of knowing was what was imparted to me by the Holy Spirit during the experience.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I don't worry about the mundane abstractions involved in relationships. I find that many of the things that I fretted over are meaningless and without merit.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The complete absence of negatives and the profound security and love experienced.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     My connection with the Holy Spirit. About three years after the experience I was headed home from town. Within moments of getting on the road, I was prompted to take another route; one that I seldom took, for no apparent reason, but I followed what I was instinctively prompted to do. As I came over a rise in the highway, I saw people gathered in the median and off the road to the right. As I approached, I could see a truck upside down against a tree with people standing off to the side. I stopped even though there were so many people there. I asked if there was anyone in the vehicle and I was told to stay away from it because there was gasoline running onto the ground. I was told also that I would get sued if I got involved. 

  No emergency medical technicians had arrived and the police were absent, so I went to the truck. Inside still belted in was the driver, an elderly gentleman. He was upside down and his back was to me. He was unconscious and his skin was gray even though he was an African American. Gasoline was draining onto the ground right next to me as I tried to reach his seat belt, but I couldn't do it. I held his hand, checked his pulse, and spoke to him. His heart was in tachycardia like a machine gun. His pulse slowed and then stopped. I looked up and it seemed that I could almost see something as I told him that he would be in a better place. I finally released my hold on his wrist as the paramedics arrived. 

  I was overwrought with sadness at his passing and my inability to prevent it, but I was confident that he was with the Holy Spirit now. Why had I traveled that way? To hold his hand while he made his transition - and that I am confident of.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        No, it was one continuous experience without parts.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Within days I spoke of what I had experienced. Disbelief and incomprehension seem to be the responses that I receive. I don't know if they were influenced at all.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had read about NDEs, but I don't think that it influenced what I experienced.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I had no doubt of what I had experienced, and still don't. It's as clear today as the moments that it took place.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     My hand is attached to my wrist; of that I am certain as I can feel and see it. The same holds true with my experience, as I can still feel it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Yes, I have been unconscious during many surgeries without benefit of remembering anything from being out. The difference between that and My Experience is profound and indisputable.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No, it seemed very adequate.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1alfred_h_nde.html