{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1alexis_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Alexis R NDE 21114","mylang":"de"}
          	        Alexis R NDE 21114  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Alexis R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						767  Alexis R NDE  21114  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

About eight people counting myself were in a small room talking and having a great time. I started feeling odd, having anxiety and mixed emotions about everyone around me. I then decided to go outside and get fresh air. Everyone followed me out and as they were all just talking and making jokes, I was overcome with all the feeling and emotions from everyone there. I felt like I could see inside all of these people and it frightened me at first.


I couldn't breathe properly and asked a friend if he could help me to my car. As I was walking to my car, my legs gave out from under me. Later after that, a friend I asked for help said that I turned an instant pure white and said it was like I had passed out but wasn't breathing. He said I was dead weight, and felt like I was dead. Everything became dark but then a light brighter than anything I have ever seen flashed. I then was watching everyone run to me and try to wake me. I was standing over myself with all the other people. I could hear them screaming at each other and I felt all their emotions. They were scared and confused.


One person kept screaming, telling them to go to the hospital. I felt like I was talking to them, calming them down. I helped them carry me to my car and place me in the passenger seat. I knew I was watching myself but I felt helpless and excited at the same time. The whole time I was trying to communicate to my friends. I came back to my body suddenly. The first thing I said that they could actually hear me say was ‘I'm fine I don't need to go to the hospital.’ I felt like a tiny figure for about fifteen minutes. I actually felt like everyone and everything around me was giant. It was a shock. Afterward I didn't know how to react or what to say. I knew what had happened but didn't at the same time. I didn't tell them about what happened to me until months later. 

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    June 2005

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes     'Poor diet, short of breath, passing out'  Clinical death I was unhealthy at the time. I had poor eating habits and exercised a lot. I was having short of breath and became frightened. People around me thought I had then passed out and said I was like dead weight.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was very alert. I thought I was helping them carry myself to my car. I thought I was talking but no one could hear me.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I had mixed emotions. I was scared and frightened but at the same time felt, in a way, at peace and liberated.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I started to become more frightened and was scared that I wouldn't be back to my body. I almost thought that was how people died for a second.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I belief now that our consciousness and bodies are two separate things. If one dies one can still life on.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part of the experience was just being able to pick up on the thoughts of people around me. The worst part was seeing myself in the state that I was in and how I looked. It was scary.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I was uncertain of the reactions of others. After telling a few people and seeing that they were believers and understood it, I feel a lot better about the event.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I wish this experience on everyone. It's an eye opener.

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain     

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1alexis_r_nde.html