{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1alex_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Alex A NDE 4463","mylang":"de"}
          	        Alex A NDE 4463  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Alex A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2239 Alex A NDE 4463  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was swimming in a river with some friends of the family. I did not know how to swim at the time. I was just kind of walking around in the shallow parts. I was told many times not to go into the deep end. So of course, I headed over that way. I did not really get too far, when I found a pothole or drop off. I took about a three feet drop in over my head. It was a total surprise, I took in so much water I did not have a chance. I did make it back up two more times, and cried out for help. Then I just stayed down. After a short time, the last bit of air left my lungs and I could not fight it any more. The water was cold but I was boiling inside and in so much pain. First, my hands and feet, then my chest, then all the way up to my head. It was like my head was on fire and in a vise at the same time. 

Then there was like a popping out sensation. I was passing through the water.  I could not see anything but the blue-gray color of the water. I was out of the water in about a half second. As I started to move up above the river, the first thoughts that came in my mind, were, 'What's Happening?' Everything I saw from here on was from a bird's eye point of view. There were two men I did not know.  One man told the other the boy is drowning and pointed to my body. A man jumped right in to save me. I just kept floating up towards a blinding white light. The feeling was so amazing, as if I did not have a care in the world.

I felt like I was made out of energy and air. I raised up my arms and hands so I could see them. They had a very slight glow to them. They were not flesh, but energy and air like. They were not see-through. My arms still had hands and fingers. I opened and closed my hands to make fists. At this point, they had pulled my body out of the water and laid it against a tree. Upon seeing my body lying there, I started to hate not being in my body. At this point, I was floating about forty feet up. Every thought was I hate being like this, I have to get back into my body somehow. There were six people around my body three on each side. One of them pushed on my waist and a bunch of water came out of my mouth. I saw my body take in a big breath. Then I saw my eyes start to open up. Then snap. I went from seeing only the tops of their heads to seeing their faces as I was snapped back inside my body. I remember everyone was asking me if I was okay. The horror of drowning was nothing compared to my out of body experience.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  July  1982

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    Drowning in water.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   The whole time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was like the sun was just over my head.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Amazement and then a great dislike.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        No, the whole thing was awesome.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was about thirty minutes. They where stunned.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     That without question we have our spirits.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Over twenty-five years later there is still no question in my mind that we have our spirits.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No, there is no question in my mind that this did happen.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No, not really.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1alex_a_nde.html