{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1alex_a_nde_6036.html","mytitle":"Alex A NDE 6036","mylang":"de"}
          	        Alex A NDE 6036  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Alex A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2860 Alex A NDE 6036  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					After being hospitalized for a month and a half for cancer treatment, I was discharged on 09/24/11 at three in the afternoon. The nurse in charge of me had removed the central line in my left leg (a catheter tube that is placed in one of the larger veins to allow the rapid introduction of fluids into the body) around noon and I had rested for a while to prevent bleeding from the site. I got into the vehicle with my mother and everything seemed normal as we left the hospital. We planned to stop at a supermarket pharmacy in the Laredo area to pick up my prescribed medications. On the way there, I started feeling a bit anxious for no apparent reason and noticed my vision blurring. I asked my mother to hurry because the feeling was intensifying. By the time we got to the parking lot, I was unconscious.

My mother called my father who was in another vehicle. When he got there, he observed me in a full convulsive state and bleeding from the central line site. When I came back to consciousness, I didn't recognize anyone at first. My parents kept asking me if I was okay and I nodded, 'no.' I was still bleeding from the puncture site, so my father decided to drive out in front and clear the way for our vehicle so we could get to the hospital as fast as possible.  According to my mother, I passed out one more time as we took off. On the way to the hospital, I regained consciousness but I was still feeling weak. I heard my mother say, 'Please hold on, Alex, we are almost there!'

I lost consciousness again and saw a very bright white light, unlike anything on earth. I noticed the sky was a beautiful blue, and I felt a wonderful peace and quietness for a moment. I had a flashback from a moment when my mother was driving me back to the ER before I passed out again, (which I had not seen,) and I heard myself say,   'Please help me, God.' During that flashback, I saw two radiant orbs in the sky from which numerous tall beings were rapidly descending and surrounding both our truck and the road in front of us all the way to the hospital. A being that was taller than the rest was standing on the hospital roof and holding something in his hands, but I could not see what it was. I saw the bright white light again and woke up in the emergency room triage room, surrounded by nurses, a physician and other medical staff. Later I was transferred out of triage to a regular emergency room and my mother told me I had completely lost consciousness in the truck while having a fourth convulsion and that I been brought back to life with shocks in the triage room.

I still think about what the doctor said to me later, 'Alex, I do not know what happened, but after we brought you back to life, we ran blood tests on you which all came back normal. Furthermore, the CT scan and MRI results were normal; the EEG performed on you and cardiac echo were all normal too. We could not find anything that might have caused the seizures. The thing that puzzles me the most is that you lost two and a half pints of blood, but you did not need a blood transfusion.' I was left in observation for four full days and then discharged. I have been okay since, [written three weeks later] though I am still having my chemotherapy treatment.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  09/24/11

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I was bleeding at the site where a central line was removed.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was observing the flashback scene.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The white light was brighter than usual and the tall beings seemed a bit transparent. Immediately before, my vision is blurry.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No difference.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A very bright white light unlike anything on earth.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt tranquility and peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No   The thought of my mother telling me, just before the white light appeared, to please hold on.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I feel closer to God than I have ever felt.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I truly believe now that God is with us all the time.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   Very tall beings dressed in bright white robes, and a being taller than the rest with a similar robe, a golden rope around the waist and a crown that looked like gold olive leaves.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     The tall beings are a definite answer that a supreme being exists.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     The feeling and the tall unearthy beings definitely make me think there is a definite life after death.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     peace and tranquility is all part of love

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I feel I understand people and their emotions and problems more than I used to.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Though this is my second NDE (my first was at birth, as per my mother) I have always had clairvoyance, clairsentience, and sometimes the ability to channel and speak to dearly departed loved ones. After this experience, I noticed a slight intensification of these gifts, which God gave me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared the experience with my parents the next day. They just looked at each other and said it was not my time to leave. I shared it two weeks later with a Christian pastor and he just changed the subject.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Just what I had seen on television or read in articles.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I remember everything with clarity, and I link the reality of it to the labs and tests they ran in the hospital when everything tested 'normal.' It was definitely real to me because of the feelings of tranquility and peace I had.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Everything was of unearthly origin, from the tall beings, to the emotions I felt, to the events here on earth connected to the experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1alex_a_nde_6036.html