{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1alejandro_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Alejandro M NDE 2545","mylang":"de"}
          	        Alejandro M NDE 2545  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Alejandro M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						834  Alejandro M NDE  2545  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  When I was eight years old my parents decided to have some blood tests done on me to see if I was ill. We went to a clinic near our home and after they took my blood, I passed out due to low blood pressure, according to the doctors who attended me. After a certain time went by, I lost consciousness, but the magnificent thing was that during that period of unconsciousness I entered into an arc of light. It was like traveling through thousands of luminous arcs, extremely beautiful; their radiance seemed to increase during the time I traveled through them.

The landscape was illusory; it was a true delight to see that world. Everybody there was young. There were all races present, including some that had an orange skin, the color of bronze. But seeing those people wasn't the most surprising thing. Rather it was that their bodies seemed to be made of porcelain, not because of the color but because their skin was so soft and smooth. I remember this because my grandma had some small statues made of a material that was similar. But the people there even seemed to have a subtle shining light around them.

One person who looked like a woman of medium height asked me what I was doing there. I answered that I didn't know, that I had suddenly appeared from among some immense bushes as the pathway opened to me while trying to get to where I heard voices. At that point, with great delicacy and tenderness, she told me: 'You don't belong to this world. At the time, you have chosen you will come here like everyone else. We'll take care of this with the gentlemen you see standing over there.' She pointed with her finger towards some men whose faces I could see. There were three of them. The three had an 'M' carved on their belts and there were symbols on their ivory colored clothing I could not understand. From among them emerged a woman with impressive beauty. She shone with a unique resplendence. She was different from the others. She seemed to understand with a glance what had happened and what was going on there. She was indescribable, truly indescribable. Even today, I can remember the quantity of lights that were given off by her clothing. Recollecting it well, the difference between the clothing of the others was that they were very light with pastel colors while her clothing gave off sparks. It was as if the sparks were suspended in the air with lights made up of thousands of colors around her. Little by little, she approached us.

She was about seven meters from where I was with the other person. She wore a jet-black gown that contrasted with the garments of everyone else. It was a long gown, like the ones worn by royalty during the fourteenth or fifteenth century. When she got closer, I could see that her gown shone with a special light. It was like black light. Her gown, seen closer, wasn't made of cloth. It seemed to be made of energy, something very special. When she got right to where we were I could see that her garment or gown was made of thousands of tiny universes or galaxies that got lost in the darkness of the black space of her garment. I think this is going to sound very crazy but that's how it was made. It was as if thousands of universes or galaxies were revolving and revolving around themselves. They revolved around themselves and at the same time, a brilliant light emanated from the breast of that person. Her hair was the color of silver, and she had extremely large blue-gray eyes and an extremely tender countenance. She didn't give the least sign of being angry.

She moved as if floating and when she got to where we were, she raised her hand in greeting. She didn't speak. She seemed to express herself mentally, everything arrived in my mind clearly and I only remember her saying: 'Little mortal, what are you doing in this place. You have commitments to keep in the worlds of time and space.' I didn't know what to say. She was extremely beautiful. She seemed to know everything and this was infused into me. Everyone knew her and seemed to adore her, or rather love her. I was paralyzed, completely paralyzed. I didn't know what to say. She looked at me with much tenderness and taking one of her arms from out of the folds of her clothing, which were more like strands of energy, she touched my shoulder and said, 'Come. It is the will of the Highest that, for some reason, you have come temporarily to this place. Let's find out why.' I asked her, 'Who are you and what will happen to me?' To which she replied, 'Don't be afraid my son. Some day you will return to this place and you, as millions of other creatures of this and other dominions, will begin a journey to know the person who has given you the gift of having your own personality.' 'Who is it,' I asked? She answered, 'You won't understand yet but I can tell you it is he who sustains us with a thought, he who gives light to the suns that they may sustain all created by and in himself.' For my part, I didn't say anything. It is only now, as an adult, that I believe I understand that situation a bit more.

I didn't notice that time transpired. We were in what seemed like an enormous meadow with immense green fields. The colors, above all else, seemed infused with light that gave them an even stronger hue. There was no sun. I looked everywhere but the light seemed to emanate from somewhere or more accurately from everywhere. By taking the being's hand, we arrived at a type of crystal structure. It was made totally of crystal. When I saw it, I thought touching it would break it because it was a very thin crystal. When we entered, I could see that the rooms didn't have brick walls. They seemed constructed of energy or a type of gelatin that shone. They were translucent and I could see through the walls. Inside these walls were other people. They all looked to be adolescents gathered at a round table with one of the beings with the letter M teaching them something. Everybody we ran into in the passages or corridors were very young people.

They seemed to know the person who was leading me by the hand. They all greeted her and I remember that they said to her, 'Glory to the Highest who gave and gives your morning stars.' She responded with a bow. As we were about to arrive at an enormous door we stopped and she said, 'By the will of the Lord we desire to know,' and the doors automatically opened. These doors were also made of energy that looked like gelatin, but they shone brightly. They were the color of blue sky. I touched one of the doors with my hand and a slight shiver went through my body. When I looked at my hand, I wasn't prepared to see through it. I remember that this surprised me so much that I released the hand of the person who was taking me. She immediately touched my head as if caressing me and I felt an enormous peace and comfort. I felt a gentle warmth and peace, much peace.

  					  We went through the door and there appeared an enormous mirror. Very large. Just as we went through the entry, I could see thousands of lights, millions of stars. It was as if they were suspended in space. When the door closed after us, the enclosure remained sealed and the lights began to shine more. Everything seemed to move. I could see that the person who had my hand began to shine more with an enormous intensity. That black light I described she had at the beginning began transforming itself into white light, an enormous white light and emanated from her breast and seemed to communicate with all the other lights. I could only hear whispers until a strong, clear voice said with seriousness, 'The small mortal belongs to a mixture of the blue race and the bronze race and belongs to the universe of things created by Michael de Salgton. He should return.' At that moment, the person who held my hand said to me: 'At some point in your future you will see us here again. Nothing is revealed about your strange appearance in this place. We anxiously await the time when you will be embraced with love by your interior light. Return to your birth world.'
  					  
At the moment, these words were uttered I was absorbed by one of the lights and felt that I fell into a kind of void. All the lights shone with such an intensity that everything was white, brilliantly white, until I arrived at the place where I awoke. When I came to, I saw my mother at my side. I didn't know what had happened, I only felt my mouth was dry and was very thirsty. When I recuperated, about thirty minutes later, we left the hospital and I didn't tell anyone what had happened for fear they would think me crazy or that they would make me undergo some painful examination. Now, after years and reflection, I know that what happened was real and I anxiously await the day when my internal light will embrace me and carry me back there once again, but this time, I think, on a journey of no return.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 03 de enero de 1984  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain         Sucedió en un hospital a realizarme análisis sanguíneos  Other Desmayo en clínica por baja de presión arterial  I didn't know it but I passed out and I only remember that some doctors carried me to a room to revive me.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It seems as if in that place all the sensations of wellbeing become activated. It was so pleasant that this earthly reality seems 'false.'  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At the moment when the person dressed in stars and universes took me by the hand.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   Time did not seem to pass. No one was in a hurry to finish what they were doing. In the crystal structure I went into, it seemed like some sort of school because everyone was gathered around the strange-looking beings of formidable stature.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Colors emitted from everything and people gave off light. It seemed like the light that shone from the flowers and plants, especially from a violet colored plant, gave out an indescribable tone as if the colors were alive and the plants could talk. It was truly indescribable.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The three people and the young woman who saw me. She wore silver-blue pants, very loose fitting. One couldn't see her figure. She wore an orange belt and a type of tunic without a collar. The other three beings had silver-colored beards. They had very bronze complexions. Their faces really shone and I couldn't tell if they were men or women because their faces were very delicate. I remember that they were very tall, about two and a half meters, and were truly Titans. They carried the letter M on their belt buckle, totally stylized. The script shone and constantly changed colors. On one side of their belt, they carried what looked like some kind of very small harp. It seemed they used them for some sort of communication because when someone would approach them to speak they needed those instruments to understand them. There were lights everywhere, of all sizes and brilliant colors of all shades of the rainbow. They seemed to appear and disappear at will. They would draw near to the people and then suddenly disappear.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Only when I came back to this earthly reality and when I saw the beautiful light coming from her breast where her heart is. It can't be described.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Cuando desperté de ese "otro lado", las flores eran inmensamente grandes y brillaban, los olores no se percibían, parecía que se podian sentir con los poros de la piel. No había sol pero la luz caia como en forma de oleadas. Habían animales extraños, muy dóciles y cariñosos, no tenían aspecto de ser agresivos, solo metope con algunos, aunque muchos de ellos eran pequeños, recuerdo una especie de pelusa o eriso de mar que llego flotando hasta mis pies. Luego se habrio dejando ver un'specia de animalito con una trompita como de elefante que al momento de tocarla cambiaba de color, cuando quería irse solo se cerrabacomo una concha y empezaba a flotar, parecía que vivían enla copa de los arboles, pues habia muchas de estas "pelusas" caminando en los árboles, lo quele daba a estos una apariencia navideña. Fue chistoso puescuando despegabana o emprendian el "vuelo", muchas hojas en los árboles se acomodaban como queriendo que aterrizasen sobre ellas. Despúes, recorrí unos cuantos metros y llegue hasta donde se hayaba la mujer y los tres seres de aspecto extraño que ya describí a principios de mi relato.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Joy, peace, love - much love - and I believe it is more than this. Understanding and much peace. A feeling of wellbeing, satiated with wellbeing, as though I lacked for nothing and I truly lacked nothing in that place. Everyone was tremendously nice. When someone saw me, their smiles came simply, truly from the love they felt for others. It seemed that when someone loved another a chain or attachment was formed that multiplied this sensation. Everything seemed to vibrate. All was harmonious, as if nothing was out of context.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   En aquella ocasión mi familia practicaba el catolicismo  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Now I don't believe any religion but I go with what agrees most with my beliefs. I take from life what can better the quality of my life.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Ahora creo en algo totalmente superior a cualquier dogma religioso  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Now I don't believe any religion but I go with what agrees most with my beliefs. I take from life what can better the quality of my life.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The beauty of the countryside I saw.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I tend to see strange lights, during the day and night.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Everything was love in that place.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Twenty-two years needed to pass before I dared tell some family members even about the lights, but I haven't told anyone about the experience.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It remained impressed in my brain and I haven't been able to forget it. I didn't understand it at the time.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It's true because we can't see air but it exists.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1alejandro_m_nde.html