{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1alejandra_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Alejandra M NDE 4244","mylang":"de"}
          	        Alejandra M NDE 4244  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Alejandra M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2092 Alejandra M NDE 4244  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was at the hospital with my mother and I remember I was nervous or scared since they were going to draw some of my blood. I suddenly started to feel sick and at this point, I fell down to the floor.

Suddenly I was standing in front of a black swirl and moving ahead to cross it - to reach out to a bright light that was getting larger as I moved towards it. I quickly entered that light and saw bright, faceless people with human form, who I did not know but felt they knew me because of the friendly way in which they received me. I had the feeling that one of them was my late uncle that I loved so much. These entities received me with great joy and greeted me by my name, but all this dialogue was by telepathy.  I was not talking, and they did not have voices either. I also remember feeling a sensation of peace, welfare and happiness beyond description. It was as if I belonged to that place.  Suddenly, the voice of my conscience told me that it was not my time yet and that I had to return.  But, I did not want to go back as I was so comfortable. I resisted and I felt as though someone was pulling me from somewhere else. I pulled in the opposite direction, but this force was stronger than I was. 

I heard from far away the voices of people and the doctor who were around me, increasingly clear, until I regained consciousness. I was sitting, head down, and the doctor was putting pressure on my neck. I recall that in those first moments, I felt angry and frustrated about not being able to stay in this wonderful place. Since that day, I thought that if THIS was death I had no more reason to fear it.  I used to have a great fear of death. I told all this to my mother at the time, but she thought it was just a dream and that at no time did the doctor speak of a loss of pulse or anything like that. I spoke about this with almost nobody, since even the people who I thought could understand it believe this is a fantasy of mine, or look at me in a strange way. Nobody really believes it.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1992

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    estaba nerviosa porque era muy impresionable y la extracci≤n me asustaba  Other 'ocurre durante un desmayo que sufro estando en ayunas, antes de un anßlisis de sangre'  I had just fainted, but this blood test was only for a routine checkup.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was always very conscious of everything, although it was not physical consciousness. It was absolutely a mental one.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The bright light was like I had never seen before. It did not hurt my eyes - it was just brighter than normal sunlight.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was not a communication in the hearing sense, but rather it was telepathy. I did not hear any sounds.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     As described in my experience, first there was a black swirl that could be called a tunnel or path, to the light that includes and contains everything.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The beings who received me had human forms but with the same brightness. They were faceless and all part of the same light or energy. They were very happy for I was there and they were greeting me. They knew me, but I did not know them and they did not communicate anything to me.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   At first it was a distant light and I was moving in the tunnel, getting closer to it. The moment I entered, I felt peace and happiness.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A feeling of happiness, peace, harmony and belonging beyond description. It was not necessary to needlessly worry or be careful. I was home with my people.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     I believe in God as a higher energy, who contains and limits our lives for a purpose previously determined by our spirit, which is a little spark of that energy. This is the light into which I arrived.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     I believe in God as a higher energy, who contains and limits our lives for a purpose previously determined by our spirit, which is a little spark of that energy. This is the light into which I arrived.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I felt that it was over there my soul would go when my physical body dies. Also, I felt that we all have a purpose to be on Earth and our time here depends on the fulfillment of said purpose. At this point in time, my own purpose was not achieved yet, for what reason I could not say, and I was conscious of that. This is why I had to come back, reluctantly. This voice was the Superior Power of God, giving me an order.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   The experience was difficult to understand until I could try to analyze and assimilate it, as I never experienced anything like this before.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I was very surprised that these entities I did not know knew me and received me with such love, and it was very annoying for me to have to go back and leave this glorious state.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I did share this experience with my mother about a month after it happened. I was reluctant to talk about it, and she did not give it much importance. I think she did not believe me or she thought it was just a dream, since the people I am in contact with are rather very realistic and show skepticism regarding those topics.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I felt that God had given me a foretaste of what happens after death so I could stop feeling so afraid of physical death. As time went by, I realized that death is not bad - on the contrary, it is a step further. I remember that I started to seek with more openness other ways of seeing the reality of the soul and our life on earth.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I think we all are energy, including our soul. We are conscious of ourselves and when we die, we join this higher energy that is God. I think I had a foretaste of it, but it was not my time to leave this physical world, since I had not achieved my task on this earth.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1alejandra_m_nde.html