{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1albert_vm_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Albert vM Probable NDE 9429","mylang":"de"}
          	        Albert vM Probable NDE 9429  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Albert vM Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						5061 Albert vM Probable NDE 9429  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I was treated by a doctor's assistant for clearing out my ears, due to wearing earplugs now and then I have to do this every once in a few years. The clearing works by the use of an apparatus spraying warm water inside the ear in a pulsating way. While this treatment was underway, I was sitting on a chair. I felt myself suddenly chilling, something I knew meant that I would soon pass out. It went to quickly for me to take action and tell the assistant so, in short, some minutes later I woke up again, heavily sweating and slowly realizing I indeed had fainted.
  
  What happened during the time I had fainted was interesting. I remembered I was in a completely dark, empty and silent void.   I was not aware of having any physical body and I had no thoughts, but I was conscious. I was just hanging there like some orb in the void, there was no space or time whatsoever. When thinking of it afterwards there could have passed hours or days, I could not tell. I was wondering how peaceful it was there and also had No active memories about my physical world. 
  
  While the doctor's assistant and doctor were helping to recover me from fainting I clearly remember how my senses one by one came back into existence. First thing that happened was that I was suddenly aware of having a physical body. Soon after that the hearing came back and I heard the doctor talking. Finally, my vision recovered but first as a blurry, colorful image, as if you used a heavy blurring tool in Paint over a picture resulting in only blobs of spatial means of colors. The full, clear vision then appeared very suddenly after.
  
  What I think is interesting is that the senses come back from coarse grained to fine grained. The awareness of our body is very coarse grained compared to the resolution of full vision which is very fine grained. You can also see it as being necessary to first be aware of the body before you can become aware of your body parts. The state while in the void was very similar to a dream state where many times I feel/see myself as some orb-like awareness wandering through a dreamscape. I am normally aware of lucid dreaming but do not want to interfere consciously and just let happen what needs to happen. I also have had a couple of OBEs in my life.  A further note is that the pulsating water in my ears apparently made me faint. I guess it triggered it due to the sound and frequency. In later treatments the pressure of the water was reduced to prevent this happening.  
  
Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 01-05-2019  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.         clear out ears  Other passed out during treatment  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I was conscious, I was just there as a conscious be-ing.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       In the dark void  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

  Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     There was no time  
  
Were your senses More vivid than usual?       No  

  Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     There was no vision because I was in a dark void.  
  
  Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was n sound  
  
Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of No return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Buddhist     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Do not know     

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I believe that the physical world is only a stage for a play in which we, conscious beings learn things about ourselves and an absolute love. Being aware having fainted fits to this since we are basically independent of our temporary physical body. I think there is one God being an absolute love and all life is connected to it. Also all life is therefore interconnected in a lesser or stronger sense.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     I was aware of myself as a concentrated consciousness in an empty void.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     You do not need the physical world to experience peace  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       No changes in my life       

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  I remembered clearly since I thought about it after it just had happened.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The way the senses come back  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Tv, books, internet  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The state was close to a state in my dreams be it without a dreamscape, thoughts etc.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The state was close to a state in my dreams be it without a dreamscape, thoughts etc.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Being a kind of orb, a located awareness in my dreams.         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1albert_vm_probable_nde.html