{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1albert_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Albert Probable NDE 7727","mylang":"de"}
          	        Albert Probable NDE 7727  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Albert Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3977 Albert Probable NDE 7727  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					At approximately 5:00 pm on 10-10-2014 something happened.  It was like an explosion in my head and body. I was very light headed, sweating profusely and weak. A little before 7:00 pm, a neighbor and my wife got me to the hospital. They rushed me into the emergency room and hooked me up to all their electronic instruments.  They found that my pulse was 20 beats per minute (bpm). The nurses started hooking me up to IV's and trying to get blood from my arms but my veins had collapse in my arms.  I was told I had a Heart Block, meaning that something was wrong with the electrical system in my heart and it was not sending the correct signals. After a short time, my pulse started to come up.  When it got to 56 bpm, I flat-lined. I don't know how long I was in that state; I heard afterwards that it was anywhere from 20 to 30 seconds. My heart started back on it's own before they could get the paddles on me. 

While I was gone, I don't know if I had a near death experience or my brain was doing something.

While in that state, I was in a Black Void.  I was at peace with everything and was not afraid. 

The next thing was that I was looking at the ceiling and nothing made sense; everything was jumbled until the ceiling finally came back into focus . The first thing I said was, 'What Happened!' They told me that I had flat-lined and they were going to install a temporary pacemaker. 

From here on for the rest of the night, I was in a daze and have no reference of time. They installed a temporary pacemaker at approximately 9:00 pm through the groin.  Then I went to the intensive care unit for the rest of the night. At 11:00 am on 10-11-14 I was in surgery again for my permanent pacemaker. They removed the temporary pacemaker.  On Sunday at 2:00 pm I came home. If the hospital didn't have the rule that they put you in a wheelchair, I could have walked out because that is how good I felt.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  10-10-2014

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Heart Block.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   Due to the heart blockage, my pulse was 20 bpm when I arrived at the emergency room.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   The black void and the total absence of any sound or visual images.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was instantly aware that I had died. I remember saying that something went terribly wrong.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I had no vision of anything.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could only hear myself.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was at peace with what had happened, there was nothing I could do to return.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     It is hard to explain. With all the waste of peoples' lives, why doesn't a higher power doesn't step in?

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       I look at things in my daily life differently now and I am happier and smell the flowers now that I found out life can be cut short very quickly.     I look at things in my daily life differently now and I am happier and smell the flowers now that I found out life can be cut short very quickly.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of th   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of th

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Within 24 hours, I told my brother and sister-in-law. My brother was very interested because he lost his wife to cancer a little over a year ago. He wanted to know if I saw her. He said I was always the adventurous one in the family.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Just a little of what I had seen on the TV or a few books I have read. It made me realize that it is true.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The next day, when I was more alert, I realized I did die and came back. Somebody gave me a round trip ticket.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     If it wasn't real, why does it haunt me every day and night?

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1albert_probable_nde.html