{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1alana_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Alana G NDE 7506","mylang":"de"}
          	        Alana G NDE 7506  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Alana G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3834 Alana G NDE 7506  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					As I am driving I see this huge black mass of darkness coming towards me and my vehicle from the right side of the road ahead of me.  The darkness was like heavy dark thunderclouds but bigger and they covered the whole area. I was well aware of this darkness coming at me. I then saw a man driving a SUV who just ran the stop sign. I knew I was going to hit him because there was no time to stop, move, or to miss him.  I then saw a huge male angel, who was over 15 feet tall, standing between the SUV and my vehicle, which was moving into head-on collision with the SUV.  

Then I was walking through a huge portal, like an entrance door.  Most of my body was all the way through the portal and I knew I was entering into another dimension.  

I am a prophetic seer and have gone into other dimensions before this. However, I had never been through this portal, so it was a little different.  The best way I can explain it is through Michio Kaku's book 'Beyond Einstein.' He is a physicist and co-founder of the super-string theory. 'The super-string theory might possibly change things for the process of fissioning from a ten dimensional universe down to a smaller universe probably created a new form of matter.' We have a universe that is more than one-dimensional framework; however, we live in a one-dimensional realm. 

In this NDE, I was entering into another dimension coming from my one-dimensional understanding. When I go from our one dimension into another dimension, I often find it hard to explain the experience coming from living in a one-dimensional realm.  I was almost through the portal and heard a voice say 'NO.' The voice was not loud but I knew that all in the heavens, on the earth, and under the earth, had to obey that Voice. I just knew there was an authority and everything had to obey that Voice. Then I heard the Voice say, 'It is not her time.'  

I then wake up in the ditch a couple of inches away from a telephone pole. I had been in a head-on collision at 50 miles per hour with no air bag. The injuries were intense, missing the main artery to my heart by 1/4 of an inch. I knew that the angel in front of the SUV was there to stop some of the impact of the force which helped save me. Thus, the angel was there to work with the Voice that said 'No!'  I never saw the powers of darkness again.  

The experience was both positive and negative in nature: the positive was God's intervention in my life and negative in that I was very, very upset that He stopped my death by saying 'NO.' I often wish I could have gone totally through the portal and into the other dimension that day, but I am here for a reason. Since this experience, death is like a promotion to me.  It is like walking through a door into the next dimension. 1Cor15:55: 'O death where is thy sting?'  Since I am a believer/pastor my experience would have a spiritual aspect to it and I make no apologies for that.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  November 13/07

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Other: Not sure how to answer I know I was leaving and entering another dimension other than this realm

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Yes, though the facts have not been checked out.  No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It was higher in the aspect of being aware of the darkness that was coming towards me while I was driving. I knew I was going to be hit. I also saw and was well aware of the huge angel in front of me and the Voice was very clear to me, not questioned in any way, I knew I heard the Voice say 'No' pause 'it is not her time'.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All the time in every aspect I was well aware of what was happening around me and to me.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     Not sure the time was faster or slower but I was 'in the moment' so to speak.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was like the spiritual realm was opened to me, in that I was able to discern the mass of darkness coming at me, seeing the angel in front of the SUV and hearing the Voice very clearly but not in volume. My spiritual senses were well aware of what was happening around me in the spiritual realm.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    In hearing the Voice say 'No' 'It is not her time' there was no questioning that Voice I heard it and knew it beyond a shadow of doubt. The Voice was not loud but carried with it a knowing, that you know, that you know, beyond anything that you heard it. I am convinced that when I hear in the spirit realm clearly that there never is that questioning, I just know that I know. I am also convinced that the communication goes to a different level from spirit to spirit and with not so much our understanding and physical senses getting in the way.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I knew that the Voice was Jesus or God but to have that authority would have to be a Supreme Being whether it was Jesus or God. My understanding would be Jesus, as He has all authority but so does God. It was one or the other of them.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     To be able to discern mass darkness, angel and Voice of God is definitely another realm. I have had experiences before but not NDE.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Acute awareness. There was no fear as to what was happening to me was way beyond my control and doing. I was being protected all along the whole experience. I was protected from the mass darkness that was coming at me, protected with an angel in between me and the SUV, protected from stepping totally through the portal and leaving this earth.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     'Understand everything' is a broad statement. I understood with clarity what was happening before, during and after the accident.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   Pastor mostly ministering in counseling, dream interpretation and teaching not connected to a particular denominational church system.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I always knew what happened was the truth but the experience of seeing and hearing the whole thing left an impact on me that without the experience I would not be as confident concerning the spiritual realm around me.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I go way beyond the boundaries that most 'churches' have in place so they are not always welcome and understood.  Oh, well. I'm a pastor mostly ministering in counseling, dream interpretation and teaching not connected to a particular denominational church system. I always had eternal values and they increased in intensity; more aware of the spiritual realm around me. I see into the light and darkness is even clearer now.  I can sense evil around me but can also sense angels and God's goodness around me and others more enlightened spiritual senses due to the experience.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I saw the mass darkness, saw the huge angel, and heard the Voice.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   I knew that the Voice was Jesus or God but to have that authority would have to be a Supreme Being whether is was Jesus or God. My understanding would be Jesus as He has all authority but so does God. One or the other.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I did encounter the war between the darkness and light. I experienced His protection from a whole different level other than my limited understanding of His provision and protection of His children.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I always knew that there was a whole other existence beyond this one. However never had the experience to that intensity mostly an intellectual understanding which is so limited with spiritual experiences.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Yes, there is a God from my experience stopped the mass darkness trying to destroy me, sent an angel to help take the impact and stopped me from going through the portal no question on His existence

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     yes, there is a time to be born and a time to die Ecc3:2

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     there would have to be some sort of continued existence as I had no control if I lived or died. The decision was made by the Voice. The Voice was the existence of something beyond myself. If that was not the case I could of went through the portal at my will.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     Yes, I understand now that I was left for a reason so I am much more aware of seeing things more from an eternal paradigm.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     Yes, due to seeing the mass darkness there really is a war going on in the unseen realm all around us. I didn't ask to be in it but I am.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Uncertain     Seemed business as usual always knew I was loved

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life. The biggest change would be my paradigm shift to more eternal values in my life/decisions, no fear of man and what others think of me, I am not afraid of death and look forward to finally going home, hopefully the next time He won't stop me.     Large changes in my life. The biggest change would be my paradigm shift to more eternal values in my life/decisions, no fear of man and what others think of me, I am not afraid of death and look forward to finally going home, hopefully the next time He won't stop me.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes On many levels my health is a challenge now, which it never was before the accident.  I was bench pressing 100 lbs. and walking 2 miles in a half hour; so to be in bed has had an impact on me and still challenges me due to that much force coming against my body. There was also some PTSD I had to process but had other ministers who helped me with that. My body hates loud noises due to the impact. Scientifically proven, the body doesn't forget trauma so I have some challenges. My marriage of 40 years has been challenged also. I am not the same person who will take risks and do things I would before. I got ordained after the accident and answered my call, and also learned dream interpretation and offer that as a way of reaching out the others to help others understand their spiritual experiences to a greater degree.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   When you enter another dimension and try to communicate what happens, the experience is always difficult to express. I was in another dimension and trying to explain in a one-dimensional understanding. I have had other experiences where I have entered into another dimension but this one was a NDE. I believe that if my body had gone all the way through the portal I would have been gone and not able to come back, but due to my one leg still not through the portal, I am still here on earth.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Hard to answer, I've always been able to see things but it was enlightened to a greater capacity afterwards, or maybe just more aware of what is going on around me. Puzzles me that animals and children can sense spiritual things but man in our 'intellect' has to reason everything out all the time. I am not throwing the intellectual aside for mystical experiences, but they do exist and need to be honored. When I am worshiping, and my cat comes into the room, sensing the presence that can't be ignored, a cat has a very limited intellectual understanding but senses the spiritual realm in the room. I just can't ignore that for intellect reasoning. When I am worshiping, the atmosphere in the room actually changes. I am convinced that the spiritual dimension has come into the room thus my senses are experiencing it. That is what I am convinced happens many times with NDE.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The whole thing was interesting!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Most people thought 'what has she been smoking?'  Didn't bother me; some colleagues welcomed my experiences while others ostracized me. I always was a bit of maverick, this experience only increased after not being afraid of man any longer. It takes independent thinkers to break through into new realms so that is fine with me if they don't like my experience and think I am too mystical.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had knowledge that others experienced NDE but had not experienced it.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The experience was burned on my soul and spirit, like I was branded with a hot iron in my soul.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Due to the impact and the branding/burning of my soul I'll never be the same: which is a good 'never the same'.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I felt united or one with the world.  I always knew what happened was the truth but the experience of seeing and hearing the whole thing left an impact on me that without the experience I would not be as confident concerning the spiritual realm around me.  I did encounter the war between the darkness and light. I experienced His protection from a completely different level other than my limited understanding of His provision and protection of His children. I always knew that there was a whole other existence beyond this one. However, I never had the experience to that intensity, mostly an intellectual understanding that is so limited with spiritual experiences. There is a God from my experience, He stopped the mass darkness trying to destroy me, sent an angel to help take the impact and stopped me from going through the portal: no question on His existence. The authority that the Voice carried was staggering. I knew that all three realms had to obey that Voice: when that Voice spoke that was it. God said let there be light and there was light: no stopping/questioning it at all.

  'There is a time to be born and a time to die' Ecc3:2 There would have to be some sort of continued existence as I had no control if I lived or died. The decision was made by the Voice. The Voice was the existence of something beyond myself. If that was not the case I could have went through the portal at my will. I understand now that I was left for a reason so I am much more aware of seeing things more from an eternal paradigm. Due to seeing the mass darkness, there really is a war going on in the unseen realm all around us. I didn't ask to be in it but I am. Seemed it was business as usual, I always knew I was loved. I sense we remember spiritual experiences more vividly and have more of an impact on us than we realize. When we have spirit to spirit encounters, they impact us in a way that changes us. I am convinced that people who have a NDE are never the same whether it is positive or negative. It goes beyond the realm of our limited intellect, reasoning and logic. NDE touches us in our emotions, understanding and spiritual senses.

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?       Uncertain

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Not much you didn't miss and thank you for taking an interest in this. It needs to be brought to the surface and explored in greater details.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1alana_g_nde.html