{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1alan_s_nde_9685.html","mytitle":"Alan S NDE 9685","mylang":"de"}
          	        Alan S NDE 9685  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Alan S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5222 Alan S NDE 9685  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I was due to start work soon, but had time to go to the shops and have breakfast at a local mall. After breakfast, I walked to a pharmacy to get something for my knee since I injured it while running a few days prior.  While looking at knee supports, I started to feel very sweaty and hot.  I thought that maybe I had food poisoning or ate something bad.  I left the pharmacy and started walking back towards my car that was parked only 50 meters.   I had to stop half way there because it was like I had no power to move and all my energy was gone. I was struggling and sweating so much, that I felt like I was in a marathon.    By time I managed back home, my wife (now ex), noticed I was not myself.  Although I wanted to lie down, she insisted we go to hospital.  As soon as we arrived, I collapsed.  Nurses brought me to a table and seconds later, I was placed in to an ambulance. While in ambulance, I chatted to the people on board with me about how this was silly and it was something I ate.  I still didn't realize I was having a heart attack. I started to nod off, feeling very tired. The EMTs kept telling me not to fall asleep. But I feel like a switch turned me off.  I thought I fell asleep and never questioned what I saw or where I was.  I thought I was dreaming.

  Then I woke up and started chatting at them again.  I asked them what they gave me that made me so sleepy.  They answered me saying, 'Nothing.'  Within moments, I went offline again.  My heart stopped.  

  This time, I was in the same room as earlier in my 'dream.'  I suddenly became aware of my surroundings as it felt like deja vu.  I wondered, why am I here again? Why am I realizing this is NOT a DREAM? Only after the second event, everything else become clearer. I recalled the first event more clearly.  

    During the first experience, I found myself in a room that was infinite any direction because there were no walls. I saw rows and rows of tables with chairs. Then some people saw me.  In front and to my right, there were two or three people and we were in a relaxed atmosphere.  One person was asking me questions, such as what I did and where I went. It felt like a HANDOVER, like I was updating them on events of my life and on places/times of events that took place.  Then all of a sudden I woke up in the ambulance bed. 

  I barely heard someone in the ambulance mentioning I had a heart attack.  I did not believe them as I did not feel anything. I didn’t even notice they gave me an electrical shock to bring me back.   

  During the second experience, I woke up back at the same table I was at in the first experience.  This time the two entities turned to each other and then to me, as if to ask my what I was doing there, like they did not expect me.  This time, it was like 2 seconds.  They looked at each other and then back to me.   

Then I was woken up again at the ambulance bed.

  When I woke up the second time, I realized it did not feel like a dream; especially when I did not expect to wake in the same place which I thought was a dream the first time.  If I had only one heart attack, I would not have thought of anything other than the experience was a weird dream.  ONLY because of the second heart attack, I became aware of my surroundings and I felt fully conscious of events. I felt like my eyes where open all the time, like I was in a room with the chairs and desks, the infinite room, and then all of a sudden I'm on the ambulance bed.  
  
Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 18-May-2022  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Heart attack.  CPR given.     Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   Heart attack  due to main artery blocked 100%
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   N/a  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       N/A  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       No  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     N/a  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    N/a  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calm  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Select   Roman Catholic, but not practicing  

  Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     My experience was not religious in nature; it did not feel that way.  The experience  was more spiritual but without any religious, catholic etc. annotations.  
  
What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   Roman Catholic, but not practicing  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience       

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?                   

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Uncertain       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Uncertain       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life       

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Lost my marriage.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No            				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1alan_s_nde_9685.html