{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1alan_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Alan P NDE 2317","mylang":"de"}
          	        Alan P NDE 2317  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Alan P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						678  Alan P NDE  2317  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I had a diabetic coma at work about ten years ago. I have been a diabetic since I was thirteen. I remember talking to people in a room. I felt relaxed at peace. Of the conversation and the people, this sounds strange. I remember nothing that I can describe. The room appeared surreal brighter than normal. It was a different place and so real. I remember confusion and movement. I was yelling, 'Don't send me back! I don't want to go back!' I awoke in the casualty department of the hospital with my workmate holding me down. As far as I know the coma was not life threatening. What happened during that time seemed more real than what happened after recovery.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 Unknown  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain   Illness      Diabetic  Other Diabetic Coma  Diabetic coma.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Everything seemed fresh and effortless. I was free, the world of pain had disappeared, and I was more focused.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the event.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual     During the return.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The events were vivid. As I came back, it was as if a layer of detail was peeled away. The room was square, faces I can't remember.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place     The room  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Absolute peace and calm. When I returned I was almost in a panic.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     The strange thing about this event is I was not near death or I don't think so.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   To all religious people -once you give the creator of the OMNIVERS a name you demean.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Agnostic  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        That feeling of peace was so strong. I am a fairly highly strung person.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   One of the big questions! This is the only time this has happened. I have had many comas.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The strength of the emotion on the return.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     No change.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       All the questions pertaining to NDE will be explained by science. I was watching a show on NDEs.  A doctor stated that the soul resides in nano-structures inside cells almost at the quantum level. I read an article about Zero Point Energy in which the writer describes the quantum foam in very similar terms. This would tend to indicate that the Soul and the Universe are made of the same stuff (forgive simplification).     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1alan_p_nde.html