{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1alan_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Alan G NDE 6730","mylang":"de"}
          	        Alan G NDE 6730  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Alan G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3351 Alan G NDE 6730  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I'm unsure of the exact time that my experience occurred. It was sometime during between my ambulance trip to hospital and being transferred to the cardiac ward of the hospital from the emergency department following surgery. I found myself sitting on this bench seat in the most wonderful place. It felt so warm and comforting yet there was no scenery, only a light fog. I saw this old man approaching me and immediately I felt that I had known him all my life but didn't recognize him. He appeared quite old and yet I felt he was quite a lot younger than he appeared. He sat with me on the bench seat and we talked for what seemed like hours about my early life, from a small child to my mid-twenties when I married.

So much of his discussion I didn't remember about my childhood, but there was a sufficient amount that I did remember that I knew he had known me all my life. Then he talked through my thirty plus years of marriage and the death of my wife three years ago.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  15/11/2012

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Had a heart attack at home, then taken to hospital by ambulance for surgery.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I feel that my consciousness and alertness allowed me to understand what was happening to me. With every person that I have spoken to following my heart attack the first thing I have told them is that it is the best thing that has ever happened to me.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I don't feel there was a particular time that was at a higher level than another. What has really amazed me is that this 'friend' has visited me twice since my heart attack, both times at home. The first about a month after returning home, and then the second time about a month later.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     We seemed to talk for hours, but obviously that didn't happen.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I find it difficult to explain in detail this experience. Particularly where I was. It just seemed so warm and comfortable, so restful.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't think my hearing changed a great deal during my experience.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     But I'm unable to say who he was.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I'm not sure if I would call it an unearthly light. Just a warm glow all around and this light golden mist/fog.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     As I mentioned, this warm, restful place. There was no scenery of anything else that I could see other than this light golden mist/fog.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       The major feeling was of unconditional love from my old friend. I felt no judgment from him when he talked about my past life.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I would not really say everything, but I certainly understand so much more now than I ever did before.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   As a child my family regularly attended a Protestant Church , follow my marriage I attended a Catholic Church with my wife but never converted to being a Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have joined a spiritualism Church because they have shown me about reincarnation and explained this experience to me.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   I have started to attend a Spiritualism Church since my experience

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I spend quite a deal of my time now in the help of others both socially and financially.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   The person I spoke to seemed to speak in clear English.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   I meet this person that I felt was an old friend as soon as I saw him but was not able to recognise him so I'm unable to say who he was

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     As I said , I felt that the old friend I spoke to was from some other mystical place

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Although it was not mentioned, I felt that he had given me an understanding that I had nothing to be frightened of in death.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Uncertain     I felt that my old friend was from a spirit world where there must be " Life after Death " what ever that life might be

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I had this feeling that there was nothing but unconditional love

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I feel I was shown that I have not given enough of myself to the support of others. Especially those who have not had the comfortable lifestyle that I have had.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I have become much more supportive of others less fortunate that myself.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I find that when I am trying to explain to someone what happened, they think I am suffering some sort of mental illness. The beauty and peace of where I was is impossible to put into words.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   It seems that this experience is so vivid in my mind , so much more so than anything that happened in my life

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Only with a few special friends.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had heard about them and thought they were not real.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real      I felt that it was probably due to the drugs I had been given during my hospital stay. It was not until a month after when I had the same experience at home without drugs that I started to believe.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have had two experiences within about a month of one another.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I have the two other visitations from the same old friend.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1alan_g_nde.html