{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1alan_f_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Alan F Possible NDE 3769","mylang":"de"}
          	        Alan F Possible NDE 3769  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Alan F Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			1760 Alan F Possible NDE 3769  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					In the early 1980, my kidneys were in bad shape.  I had severe back pain, drugs and embezzlements at work, wife not well mentally, etc., so 'challenged' God to visit me personally and explain all these troubles, account for Himself as well - then decided I might suffer a self-fulfilling dream or hallucination, so I added, 'leave some candy bars on the nightstand so I KNOW it was not that.'

I had been increasingly in poor health (back/kidney pain, etc.) and shortly after that point I became severely ill, but got no help from the doctors, as they were clearly not willing to offer legitimate assistance. I worsened over the course of the next year and would spend hours after work trying to recuperate for the next day, which usually involved a lot of harassment due to the alcoholism and fraudulent nature of activities there. I finally couldn't bear it anymore, felt that I would die, and left work for home as I still had enough energy to get there. At home, I collapsed onto the bed and instantly felt a powerful presence, a sort of diffuse person, come off the nightstand, at the same time it (he) spoke to me, 'Indescribably Delicious.' You need to remember the TV ad slogan for Peter Paul Almond Joy candy bars - this was obviously meant to be a pun on my demands of a year ago.

'He,' which was clearly the Holy Spirit. The 'indescribably delicious' words were attended by the experience or essence of the words themselves, and were of that essence, and not typically audible words. He then lifted me off the bed and propelled me at great speed such that reality became a sort of tunnel, at the same time the conversion of reality towards a single point was emphasized by the 'words', 'The Union of All Things.' This Union was in fact Jesus.  Although I saw no typical person, I felt the magnificence of mercy and kindness.  Then I stopped abruptly at the end where an unbelievably beautiful but simple gold crown was fixed over my head, and at the same time I paused there for several seconds, I was bathed in jewels that could be described only as spiritual concentrations of pure kindness. In the next instance, I passed into the intense light of Heaven, no sun or moon, no gravity or air, but the brilliance of the place emanates from the things themselves and is composed of the non-material 'substance' of God's spirit, intense, beautiful, glorious. 

I then found myself moving rapidly far above the 'ground,' and then saw a beautiful ribbon of blue in the distance, which soon became a very broad, glassy surfaced river as I first turned and hovered over it, at which point it 'spoke' in the same way, out of the life that was within it, 'River of Life.' I then traveled down this river bounded on both sides by beautiful sculpted mountains of breathtaking beauty, the beauty so intense that it was difficult to endure, and increasingly so as I went. I was about to then pass around an exquisite bend near the surface of the water, but then was suddenly taken out of heaven and back. As I went back towards my body, while on my back horizontally, the Holy Spirit broke my fall in semi-human form by cradling me in his arms, rocking me back and forth. He had a fairly distinct human form during this, wide smile looking upwards with big, strong arms, laughing joyously. I then was back in my body on the bed.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'May, 1981'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening' 'I ''died'' from mercury poisoning, not acknowledged by medical people, extremely ill... at home'  I was extremely ill from accumulated mercury poisoning from vaccinations, 'silver' tooth fillings and other exposures as well.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While passing down the river and approaching the bend, just before leaving the Heaven realm.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     No gravity up there, events pass by, but there is NO passage of time in the sense that we think of things falling down or deteriorating.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It is NOT a physical experience, it's as if everything we 'see' with our visible eyes is only a shadow of the 'real' thing, which is a spiritual reality, a sort of life-is-in-everything place, but nothing has a solid physical reality.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    You 'hear' with your being, strong but distinct impressions emanate from the semi-solid objects and beings that you experience.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It didn't seem like a tunnel with walls, but instead a powerful convergence of reality towards a single point at the door to Heaven, and this point was Jesus, though he didn't say that word, just 'Union of All Things'.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No     No beings other than the three main deities I mentioned (the big God is all in all in Heaven). I'm sure they are there, but I saw none, saw no flowers, trees or buildings, either.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It is NOT a physical light in heaven, but compares well with the idea of a bright sunny day when you walk out of a dark room and your eyes hurt, but it isn't a physical light. The light itself is living love from a divine, Godly presence, and it is the ONLY God, and the ONLY Heaven, not to say that the upper atmosphere could not be called a heaven, but you know what I mean.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I already described these...

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Extreme love, brilliance, joy.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I was abruptly sent back to life, but had then or since NO awareness of future events, but in rare instances I am able to predict unusual events without knowing that I'm even doing it - something puts these things in my head and they come true, but I don't know how or why.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Of course, I now KNOW a great deal more than I once did, but I frequently forget that in order for things to happen in the future, I have to pray.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Of course, I now KNOW a great deal more than I once did, but I frequently forget that in order for things to happen in the future, I have to pray.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I can't say in specific words, but I then and since suddenly knew God for what he really was, and I have to also say that while no two NDEs can be expected to be identical, many of those I read about seem embellished a great deal.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I don't know, most people seem very shallow and unreliable to me, and they never have respected me much either before or since, but sometimes they do, and I think things have been better as a result of the experience since I am not quite so cynical.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Indescribable,' a word often used for such experiences.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Like I said, an unusual ability at times to know what is going to happen, but it doesn't really seem psychic to me, more a matter of combined experience leading to intuition, but it is very perceptive at times. I also have unusual insight into mathematical relationships.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of it but the 'Indescribably Delicious' part was particularly impressive and personally directed.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I talked to my wife about it soon after, but very rarely since as I'm usually mocked - people are very unpleasant sometimes.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I think I'd heard a little about such things, but not much, no specifics, just some reading I think.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     There has never been any doubt in my mind that what I experienced was infinitely more real than anything I've ever experience on planet Earth ever at any time during my sixty years here.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The same always, far MORE real than anything in this physical realm.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Read what I have said here carefully, it is ALL true, every word, not exaggerated or embellished in any way.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Seems good enough, hope I was of help.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1alan_f_possible_nde.html