{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1al_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Al G NDE 4305","mylang":"de"}
          	        Al G NDE 4305  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Al G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2121 Al G NDE 4305  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was making a sailing yacht transfer between two cities in my country.  Suddenly, I was caught in rough sea followed by a strong thunder storm. I was so scared for my life. In one moment, a four-meter high wave hit the ship and tossed me across the ship. I remember that I hit my head and then nothing, only the darkness. 

After a second, I started to look at myself from the air. I could see myself lying down unconscious and in a quite unnatural position with my head on the deck and my legs in air something like letter 'L'. Strangely, I did not feel any danger, even though I could hear thunder and see big waves hit the ship. The only thing I could feel was peace and satisfaction, pleasantness. I was happy, first moment of happiness after a couple of years. I felt divine. I felt like I'm the nature itself. It felt like I'm floating in air for hours and hours, and then suddenly I heard a voice of the woman I love (even though she left me two months before that, I still love her) telling me to be strong, to make it through. That voice told me to get up, open my eyes and to live, because it is not my time yet to leave this life. So I did. 

I opened my eyes and got up, with some kind of strength inside my body I never felt. I felt that I could swim and tow the ship back to the port. After few hours, the storm stopped and the sea calmed down. Now after a few days I feel so disturbed about that event. I'm happy to be alive, but I feel so sorry that I lost that sense of clarity and happiness, that feeling of peace.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  17-01-2010

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   All the time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All the time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happiness, peace, clarity.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I finally realized that woman that I love had to leave me, I finally accepted that. It was the only way for her to find some things in life that I couldn't give her.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, two. First the voice, so gentle to me so real and so convincing that I thought it was a message to try to get back to my loved one - but now I feel that she saved my life just to say I'm sorry for leaving me to redeem herself, I think.  Second, that peace and clarity of being one with nature - it told me that no matter what happens I can still count on her to help me in any way, even though she will never be with me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told to my ex-girlfriend about it only because her voice told me to get up, to wake up because it is not my time to leave this realm.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I heard about it on TV ten years ago. It did not have any influence on experience.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Very real because after a day I still could feel that peace and happiness.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Now I know it was very real after five days because I started to feel very afraid of that experience and sadness because in that sense it stopped.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I felt so afraid now, but now I know that death is not something to be afraid of. It is just a transformation to a higher plane of being, without any problems.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1al_g_nde.html