{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1akemi_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Akemi A NDE 2296","mylang":"de"}
          	        Akemi A NDE 2296  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Akemi A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						669  Akemi A NDE  2296  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I was in the water with a cousin and a current dragged us inside the sea. My cousin, in her desperation, stepped on my head trying to reach the surface. I lost orientation and didn't know where the bottom or the surface was. I tried to swim but sank further down. I felt pain for a very brief moment; I heard the noise produced by the entering of water into my lungs. I went over details of my life since I was three years old until the moment of my drowning. Next, I saw my body slowly sinking in the water. I felt peace and a feeling of indescribable love, I saw a shining Light, and as I was approaching it (the Light) the sensations were stronger.

Then, suddenly everything changed. I felt as if I was being strongly vacuumed (sucked) and moving away from the light, the pain came back stronger than before, it was the surface air that was coming into my lungs when a lifeguard was trying to pull me out of the water. Because of the pain, I scratched him and he let me go again in the water. I felt peace and started to see the light again. Another sudden movement got me out to the water surface. I lost consciousness and came back to my senses at the shore after vomiting all the salty water I had drank.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 February 1973   

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         ahogamiento por inmersion en el agua  Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Drowning.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I heard minimal noise. I was sad because I felt I was separating from life. Afterwards I felt peace.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I heard the water coming into my stomach.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   I lost track of time.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Colors were more intense, low noise was heard louder.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     When I was rescued I felt I was coming back through a tunnel in a violent (or rude) way.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A shining light, transparent and deep.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     vi dentro de la luz algo bello , que no lo puedo describir  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Fear, sadness, bravery, love, peace.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control     I learned that death is not as bad as it is described.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From the world's future   

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I felt that we should give out more love than the amount we are accustomed to giving.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I feel the presence of people who are going to die. Last case: Sunday, July 31, 2005, at 3:00 pm I felt a strange presence at home and in spite of the cold weather I felt the warmness of a hug. I asked if it was my father that had died twenty-five years ago. In response, I felt that my hair was being gently pulled up (my hair is long); I felt a breeze in my face. My daughter called at 10:00 am, August 1st, to inform me that her neighbor had passed away. He was a very loving man with the family.  On another occasion, I felt a recurrent presence asking for help. After a week, I was at the Club's swimming pool and almost all the people had gone so I decided to get into the water because it was almost alone. Suddenly I felt a soft blow in my leg and I saw a black stain; I pulled the stain up and it was the head of a man who was drowning. I called my husband and he helped me to get him out of the swimming pool.  Sometimes when I casually touch someone I know [translator note: the author says 'adivinar', which in the context might be translated as mind-reading] the events he/she is going through that he/she has not told anyone about. When someone hurts me and I get resentment, they go through uncomfortable unexpected events. I try to control myself so they do not happen.

  Sometimes I have premonitory dreams. The ex-president Fujimori ran for re-election and he was dressed with a Japanese Kimono and he was telling me that he had to go because he was being persecuted. However, he won the elections and took the oath. I thought I was mistaken. However, months after he left the country resigned by fax and took refuge in Japan.   

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I changed my idea towards death.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I evaluate it as something mystical.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I found a better purpose for life.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       It would be convenient to analyze why events that do not have explanation - such as the ones in my case - keep happening after an experience of this type.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1akemi_a_nde.html