{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1aissaoui_nde.html","mytitle":"Aissaoui NDE 1063","mylang":"de"}
          	        Aissaoui NDE 1063  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Aissaoui NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						514  Aissaoui NDE  1063  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

In August 1985, the day I arrived on vacation at the seaside in the south of France, I arrived having only one idea in mind, to have a bathe, to have a swim, to enjoy the pleasures of the sea. My four year old niece came into the sea with me and at the time I put my head underwater, I lost consciousness. Seeing that I stayed too long floating with my head in the water, my niece took my head out of the water, pulling on my hair.


At this moment, I saw my body as if I was dead. It was as if I was on a kind of pedestal, watching the scene, without any fear. I paid attention to the scene without worrying about anything. I didn't understand why my family cried, bothers go into a panic, whereas I feel so well. Staying at the top of this pedestal, I watch several scenes at the same time, in several different places; I hear everything and I am even able 'to hear ' each one's interior dialog, without being astonished. I see the firemen who try to resuscitate me and the ambulance service staff trying to resuscitate me with electric discharges to make my heart beat again (I want them to stop what they are doing, I feel well there 'where I am'). I paid attention to the complete reanimation scene and my transportation by helicopter to the hospital of Montpellier.


I felt attracted, as if magnetized, by a light, which attracts me, the closer I come to this light, the more I feel well, a feeling of peace, love, wellbeing, and fullness. This light attracts me and I lose sight of my terrestrial body. I go towards this light, which absorbs me more, and more. I never felt such total wellbeing before in my life.


All at once, the light disappears; I see my terrestrial body lying on a bed. That body is connected to a multitude of machines, that doesn't surprise me. Without moving out of the room, I can see what occurs in the corridor where my sister and her husband are in a state of shock. I attend to their conversation and all seems natural to me.


All at once, black hole, nothing anymore, something keeps me from breathing, I cough, I recover consciousness, I awake disappointed, frustrated, I suffer physically, I realize that I was there without being there, was it a dream? My family tells me what happened, it is exactly as if I had been with them, but I prefer to say nothing, I can't find the right words. I'll keep this event to myself forever. I won't disclose it to my family members, they would not understand.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1985

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?    Accident  noyade     Drowned in water.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was like a floating ball of energy, a kind of very light, vaporous and airy cloud.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Very alert. Bi-located.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Read peoples' minds.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   See main narrative.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      See main narrative.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   aucun

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist   1 seul Dieu pour tous

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Unreal impressions, the words can't come out to tell this event, verbally indescribable.

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain     

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1aissaoui_nde.html