{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1aharon_n_nde.html","mytitle":"Aharon N NDE 4828","mylang":"de"}
          	        Aharon N NDE 4828  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Aharon N NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2449 Aharon N NDE 4828  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					On 5th May 1999, at my work in the University of Tel-Aviv, I had a severe heart attack. I was taken to the clinic at work. I was lucky to have a doctor there. She gave me aspirins and oxygen by pressure and called an ambulance. The ambulance was late. I was losing consciousness. I was told that the ambulance had arrived. The doctor and medics started life saving procedures. Before I completely lost my consciousness, I prayed to God: 'Oh God! I am so close to you, then take me to you.' I said twice this sentence; and I was out!!

I was in a transparent, luminescent balloon of bliss, floating inside like a baby in a mother's womb. However, I saw myself what I was. I experienced a wonderful feeling of bodilessness, no burden of weight, no measure of time, distance and space. In that transcendent balloon, I was fully conscious of my being and could feel what's beyond this transparent balloon. What I saw and felt is beyond my expression. During this state, I again pleaded God: 'I am so near you, please take me to you!' After this plea, all of a sudden, images of my wife and children started coming to me. I can't explain what my thoughts were, when I saw them. I only know that I slipped from this luminescent balloon, like a baby slipped from a mother's womb to take birth. 

I suddenly found the doctor and a medic waking me up. They said, 'Aharon, we saved you.'

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  May 5th 1999

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Heart attack.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Earthly time of twenty to thirty seconds, may be more!

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Earthly time of twenty to thirty seconds may be more!

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Immeasurable, you are conscious of so many events and conscious of so many things without the time and space limits.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I think more dimensions added.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was no sound! Sound was integrated with vision without hearing it.  You perceive things, as we perceive with our senses in our day to day life.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I was surround by pleasant cool light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I strongly belive after this experience, that it depends on how we enrich our consciousness during our Earthly life.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt blissful, ideal state of being, no bondages of life, freedom, loving, and full knowledge.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     Not applicable.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     Not applicable.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Definitely Yes! If there is a creature then there must be a cause of Creator.  On earth, all the creatures act and live according to the will of 'receiving' and self-love. So there must be 'will to bestow', the all-benevolent force.  We must scrutinize our will to receive and see if we can achieve to coincide with 'will to bestow or all benevolent will.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Returning back also is quite significant. This signifies the importance of our corporeal body. 'I', with the help of ego (as an angel), can achieve higher states of consciousness according to the rules and laws of nature which is all benevolent and aligned with the 'thought of creation'.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    A few days after bypass surgery told to wife and children and close friends.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It happened more than ten years ago. I still live with this incorporeal experience. It is as real as holding corporeal reality.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     As above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1aharon_n_nde.html