{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1964__kullgren___dawn_of_a_new_age.pdf","mytitle":"Dawn Of A New Age","mylang":"de"}
~~/"
THE DAWN
OF A
NEW AGE
nAnd Ye Shall Know the Truth,
And the Truth Shall Make Ye Free!"
/
Compiled by
WILLIAM KULLOREN
Price $2.50
PREFACE
What's wrong with the world? I can tell you briefly in one sen-
tence: Mankind is trying to get along without the Creator, the
Divine Architect who drew up the Blueprint for humanity to fol-
low. For the past 6,000 years humanity has been determined -tQ.go
its own way with disastrous results, as you can see as you look •
over the world today.
What must we do to get back on the Path and to follow the -
Divine Blueprint? God Almighty commissioned the Children of
Israel to lead the world in the Path of Righteousness. But we find
the preachers and the various religious sects telling the world that
the Jews are the Children of Israel-they are not. I recently read
an article in a periodical dealing with spiritual and occult things
that was telling its readers that Moses was a Jew. Any Bible stu-
dent knows, or should know, that that is wrong. There were no
Jews on earth in Moses day. The name or term was unknown until
long after Moses day. The first time the name Jew was named is in
the Second Book of Kings.
The Modern Israelite is of Anglo-Saxon blood stream.'IB....J}.i0i!f- ,
ern times you must go back to the time of Jeremiah when he cross-
ed the ocean, landed in Spain and then in Ireland. He brought with
him the two daughters of the king. One was left in Spain and the
other married the Irish king. Is it any wonder the Irish are so proud?
The Anglo-Saxon and Nordic nations are Israelites, and also a part
of Germany, especially Saxony.
America had to break away from British rule because she was
departing from the Blueprint. Even that was not sufficient for we
have been invaded by the Old World and its ideology until we, too,
in America are thoroughly corrupted. Today "The Canaanites
walk in the House of the Lord." God Almighty is determined that
we shall get back on the path, and is going to let us suffer until we
come to our senses, like the Prodigal Son.
There must and will be a call for repentance here in Amer1ca.
We must openly acknowledge our dependence upon God and the
Leadership of the Lowly Nazarene, Who is coming in the near fu-
ture to take over the reins of government-but first we must see
the error of following S,atan's imitation government, the United
Nations. The U.N. is Satan's substitute for God's Government, and
it has had disastrous results. That is why we were defeated in
Korea through the actions of General Marshall who was a weakling
and under control of the enemy.
4
Today America is under the dominion of men who have sur-
rendered to the Russian ideology. Khrushchev openly boasted that
he has access to all our secrets-and he has. He works through the
Rockefeller empire. Rockefeller plans to win the presidency of the
United States. Lucifer and all his servants are doomed to disaster.
Those on the Higher Planes, lead by the Lowly Nazarene, are
~ -~inspiring men and women in different parts of the world. We are
printing some of those messages in this book, which is like a con-
tinuation of our previous book MIDSHAGES FROM HIGHER
PLANES.
The Lowly Nazarene is going to set _
up the Golden Age, and
nothing that Lucifer and his servants can do will stop it. I want
you who read this to realize that God is Omnipotent and all Power-
ful. God gave humanity 6,000 years to straighten out and sober up.
Time is now run out and God Almighty is going to show His invin-
cible power. He, Who we know as Jesus the Christ, is the focusing
center of that power.
Many of you are fearful. The Good Book says: "Perfect love
casteth out fear." It is no longer a question of "if" only "when."
The Divine Blueprint, which you will find in your Bible, is going
to work to the letter. Disasters will take place here in America re-
-axedly until we come to our senses and say with the Prodigal
.:;on "I will arise and go to my father." Readers, have you suffered
enough that you are willing to do that or do you want more pain
inflicted upon you?
The keynote is: Man's rebellion to God is the seat of all our
trouble. Each and everyone of us must realize that we are prodi-
gals and say: "I will arise and go to my Father." First, we must
acknowledge that we have taken the wrong path-that is repent.
After repentance comes obedience and you and I can end all our
troubles and suffering right now, if you follow the above formula.
When you have set your spiritual house in order, sign up with the
Christ Army and be willing to take orders because the Man of Gali-
lee is not a sloppy sentimentalist. He is going to rule with a rod of
iron and, if you are a rebel, you won't like that. You must come to
it or perish. Millions will be taken out of the body because they re-
fuse to surrender their carnal will.
I ask you who read this book to get into the act and help to
spread this message because the foundation will be laid by the
descendants of the Children of Israel. Israelites and not Jews are
God's Chosen People- not chosen for any special privileges but
chosen for service to the King of Israel, Who is now preparing to
bring His Army to the Earth Plane, regardless of whether you
believe it or not.
It is Christ or Chaos. What shall it be in your life? The Master
is looking for men and women who will dedicate their lives to His
Service, men and women who are willing to be obedient to His
every command. "Seek ye first the Kingdom of God and His right-
eousness and all other things will be added unto you."
5
PREPARING FOR THE FUTURE
From "Messages of Light, Given in His Name"
The time is short for preparation. It is so easy to fall into the
error of taking one day at a time and expecting future days to fall
into like pattern.
I do not mean ye should look ahead and worry. But if ye live
each day in full service and love and praise to the Father and His
S,on, then indeed do ye prepare for the future. For as ye step today
so are ye likely to step tomorrow. And a series of steps make the
Path to the Lord, if each is taken in His direction.
There is no time for side steps to be taken, while ye explore a
by-path. Ye must all get as close to thy Shepherd in the sheep-fold
as is possible, and as soon as possible, if ye would have shelter in
the storm ahead.
Have no fear, for fear carries ye away from the Father and the
Good Shepherd. A sheep that strayeth from the flock becomes lost
and must be searched for by the Good Shepherd. But there is no
time for the Good Shepherd to search for strayed sheep. Such only
slow down the time of His coming.
If ye would do service to bring His Kingdom to earth, th~'\)
must ye indeed stay close to thy Shepherd and prepare thyself f~-v
the troublesome times ahead, by filling thy being with Love and
Praise for thy Father and service in His Name.
I, Dr. Montzelle, have instructed this day in the Name of the
Lord Jehovah God. Amen.
The End of the Gentile Generation
1964 - A Year of Destiny
By Norman C. Pierce
All through the Bible, the Lord plans His work and organiza-
tions in divine numbers or multiples thereof, such as 31/
2-7-12-24-
40-5'0-70-120-144, and so forth, with a small plus or minus margin,
at times. It appears that He still operates that way in these last
days of the Gentile Generation. D&C 45 :28, 33.
In the following table, the dates are figured from 1820, which
marks the first Vision of Joseph Smith, to his death in 1844, and
the last column marks the year of culmination or realization - 1964.
First we have 24 years of Divine warnings - then a 120 year genera-
tion of Judgments.
6
1. A DIVINE CYCLE
1820 ------------------------------------ plus 144 years ----··--·---·-·-···-····----------·- 1964
2 A. GENERATION OF JUDGMENT
1820 ------·· plus 24 years - 1844 ····---- plus 120 years - ·····-·-···-·----- 1964
3. LIGHT AND DARKNESS
~----1820 ----··-· plus 70 years light - 1890 -·------ plus 70 years darkness,
1960 plus 3¥2 yrs - 1964
4. THE NEPHITE "DREAM" MINE RECORDS
1820 ____
____ plus 24 years - 1844 -------- plus 50 years - 1894 ........ plus
70 years - 1964
5. A GENERATION OF WARS
1820 ........ plus 24 years - 1844 ---···-· plus 70 years - 1914 -----·-- plus
50 years - 1964
6. THE GREAT PYRAMID GENERATION
1820 ........ plus 24 years - 1844, plus (Great Step) 120 years -
Junction Complete 1964
7. PRESlDENTS DIE IN OFFICE IN NATIONAL GENERATION
1820 ··---·-· plus 24 years - 1844 -
r
Tyler IDlected
Lincoln·
Garfield
McKinley
Harding
Roosevelt
Kennedy
1840
1860
1880
1900
1920
1940
1960
Died in office 1841
1865
1881
19'()1
192·3
1945
????
1841 to 1844 (Pres. Tyler's Term) plus 120 years - Pres. Kennedy's
Term, 1961 to 196"4
8. WASHINGTON'S CENTURY PROPHECY
November 1861, plus 100 years, brings us to 1961, plus 311z years
brings us to 1964
9. " THE SIXTH SEAL" SHORTENED
2001 minus 40 - 1961 .... Opening of 7th Seal, plus 3¥2 years - 1964
EXPLANATION
1. We have a full cycle of 144 years from the Coming of Christ in
1820 to the coming of Christ in 1964 - not the final coming.
2. We have a Generation of Judgment like unto Noah's (120
years) (Matt. 24:34, 37; Gen. 6:3) which went into force with
the death of the Prophet Joseph in 1944. "For a testament is of
force after men are dead; otherwise it is of no strength at all
while the testator liveth." (Heb. 9:17) "The testators are now
dead (Joseph and Hyrum Smith) and their testament is in
force." (D&C 135:5)
7
3. We had 70 years of light and revelation of "Thus s
Lord'', from 1820 to 189'0. Then 70 years darkness to 19
comes 31h to 7 years of purging and restitution fro
through 1967. This may witness the Final Coming of C
His Temple in the New Jerusalem, after the tares are bu
4. Marks a cycle (1820 to 1844) of 24 years of restoration
Prophet's death in 18·44, in which we received most of o
ern scriptures. 1844 to 1894 marks a 50 year cycle of t
to darkness. 1894 to 1964 marks a 70 year gestation peri
rebirth of the Greater Scriptures, such as the sealed par1l
Book of Mormon; the Brass Plates; the writings of the
of Jared; of Enoch; of Joseph of Egypt; of John the Re
and of the Ten Tribes. In 1894 the Angel Morani commen
Nephite or "Dream" Mine. By 1964 we may receive these
records, together with the greatest gold supply in the wor
5. Marks 120 years of Judgment upon the Nations. 70 years
ser wars, to 1914, and 50 years of World Wars to 1964,
a Jubilee year for a New Age. 1965 may bring Peace and
erhood through acceptance of the entire gospel.
6. The 120 year Generation of Judgment is marked on the
Pyramid, from the "Great Step" (1844) to "Junction C
ed" (1964) in the King's Chamber.
h the
. Now
1961
·ist to
L
ed.
;o the
mod-
ilight ~
l to a
>f the
other
lator;
d the
idden
7. Shows 7 United States Presidents elected 20 years apar . wu..--..-
die in office during the 120 years of judgment (1844 to 1:964.
the end of our present government. (Ether 2:9, 12)
8. Marks the prediction of General George Washington to Civil
War Commander General George McClellan, that "ERE
ANOTHffiR CffiNTURY P.A:SSIDS BY, AMERICA WILL FACE
HffiR 'THIRD AND GRffiATffiST PERIL'", our FINAL WAR.
9. Matt. 24 :22. "Except those days should be shortened there
should no flesh be saved; but for the elect's sake those days shall
be shortened." "Those days." may be shortened by 40 years, thus
2001, the numerical beginning of the Millennium, minus 40
years, would be 1961, and 1961 plus 3lj
2 - 1964. 3lj
2 years if final
warfare and tribulation are indicated in Rev. 11, prior to one of
the Comings of Christ. D&C 77 :13 places this in the 7th SEAL.
The 40 years may be added to the end of the Millennium when
Satan is released "for a little season" making an even 7'000
years of man's existence. Thus, 1965 may bring PEACE ON
EARTH AND TH\E] UNlV'ERSAL BROTHIDRHOOD OF MAN TO
PREPARE THID WAY FOR THE KING OF KINGS ABOUT 1967.
"BE ALIVE IN SIXTY-FIVE" - "KEEP ALL THE COMMAND-
MENTS."
FROM CALIFORNIA:
"Dear Friend: Thanks for the book MESSAGES FROM HIGH-
ER PLANIDS. I have read it and going over it again. I think a book
such as yours should be read over and over to be able to digest it.. .
Thank you, Mrs. S. D."
8
Heavenly Signs
from "DESTINY", January, 1962
By Howard Rand
The Psalmist exclaimed when he contemplated the majesty of
creation as it is revealed in the heavens:
"The heavens declare the glory of Cod; and the firmament
sheweth his handywork." (Ps.19:1.)
Continuing, the Psalmist informs us that the heavens speak in
a language which is understood by all peoples, for upon the vault
of the heavens pictorial star groupings are depicted that convey a
remarkable revelation to those who will study their significance.*
*See The Stars Declare God's Handiwork, 50 cents postpaid.
Destiny Publishers, Merrimac, Mass.
In the account of creation as it is given in the first chapter of
Genesis, the statement is made:
"And God said, Let there be lights in the firmament of the hea-
ven to divide the day from the night; and let them be for signs,
and for seasons, and for days, and years: And let them be for lights
in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth: <tnd it
was so. And God made two great lights; the greater light to rule the
day, and the lesser light to rule the night: he made the stars also."
(Gen. 1:14-16.)
_ - These were not only to furnish light, marking the days, years
and seasons, but they were also to be for signs. The wise men,
conversant with the meaning of the stars as signs, understood the
significance of what they had witnessed in the heavens and jour-
neyed to Palestine to find the child who was born to be King.
Because of the most thought-provoking implications of the
heavenly sign which will consist of a conjunction of seven heavenly
bodies that will take place in the constellation of Aquarius.the first
week of February 1962, we are reprinting an interesting report that
appeared in The Covenant Message, South Africa, for October 1961,
under the title, "Do the Stars Foretell?":
"The Sunday Dispatch of January 22, 1961, is reported to
have published the undermentioned details concerning a start-
ling planetary conjunction in the near future: ·
" 'An amazing and prodigious happening is about to take
place in the heavens. It has. not occurred for 25,000 years. For
the first time in the recorded history of mankind five major
planets - Mercury, Mars, Venus, Jupiter and Saturn- will
all enter the same 19 degree arc of the Zodiac - called Aquar-
ius - together with the Sun and the Moon.. .. The astrolog-
gers of the world are in a ferment. What, they ask themselves,
is going to happen? Some, it seems, are just about to make for
the top of the nearest hill and wait for the end of the wodd in
February 1962.
" 'Five planets in conjunction have them gasping. Twice
before there have been just three in such a situation. The first
time was in 577-574 B.C. Then Buddha was born, transform-
ing the E'astern half of the world. The second time three
9
planets entered a new sign was the period 10 B.C. to 80 AJD.
Then Christ was born, transforming the life of the Western
half of the world.
" 'It is interesting to note that only twice in the recorded his-
tory of mankind have three planets entered the signs of Aries
and Pisces, respectively, and on each occasion half of the world
was transformed. Now five planets, as well as the sun and
moon, are entering the sign of Aquarius, whose sign is a water
carrier, and we know that, with our Lord's Second Coming, the
whole world will be influenced. . ..'
"Well, there you have it. Do the stars really foretell? Is
Astrology such a discredited 'science' as is made out? Some
encyclopedias call it a 'pseudo-science.'
"It is significant of the change of attitude to note that the
New English Bible in Matthew 2:1 translates the Greek word
'magoi' (A.V. wise men) 'astrologers,' and in Luke 21:25, the
Greek word 'semeia' (A.V. signs) 'portents,' so that the
'semeia megala' etc., are rendered 'in the sky terrors and great
portents.'
"We are near enough to the month of February, 1962,
when this astronomical event is heralded to take place, to be
able to reserve judgment.
"But the question may be asked right now. Will that con-:
junction of heavenly bodies have to be considered as one of ~
the 'signs in the heavens' referred to by our Lord in Luke 21:
25? Will we from now on see more such culminating in the
next dreadful event 'near panic,' i.e., 'on earth distress of na-
tions,' a situation which the new translation of the Bible des-
cribes as: 'Portents will appear in sun, moon and stars. On
earth nations will stand helpless, not knowing which way to
turn from the roar and surge of the sea. . . .'
"Not for us. the panic, oh, no. It is really good news ulti-
mately. For those interested in the meaning of numbers :
"1) There will be five planets in conjunction. Five gener-
ally in Holy Writ means blessing.
"2) Add to these the Sun and the Moon and you have
seven heavenly bodies in conjunction. Seven is the signature
of the Lord God Almighty, Creator of the heavens and the
earth.
"3) The conjunction takes place in the 19th degree arc
of the Zodiac, and nineteen is the number of the Metonic cycle
and means 'restoration.'
"4) That degree arc of the Zodiac is called Aquarius -
the water carrier. Does it not mean for us Israelites the ful-
fillment of Isaiah 12 :3? 'With joy shall ye draw water out of
the wells of salvation.' Water of life provided by the GREAT
ONE, the Water Carrier.
"To sum up, if this is a portent, it is a great and good
one and ultimately means and foretells the coming of the Son
of man in the clouds (clouds carry water) with power and
great glory.''
10
From Mark-Age Bulletin
Beloved ones, dear to my hearts and help-mates in the Cause
of Victory and Freedom, I Am your Leader and your Brother,
JESUS, who goes before you to clear the way and make the path
so much easier.
I will not speak at great length this moment, for you have
heard many things from me and from others speaking my desires
to you - and the desires of Spirit, above all, to all of us. I have not
left this conclave. I have not deserted this Project. I am only
leaving you in better hands than mine - the Hands, the Power, of
Spirit within you. Enough words have been spoken, through many
cycles and many eons, but this short period that you are presently
in - that we have named, for your own reference, the Reaction
Cycle - is perhaps the most important period of balancing or re-
action you have ever consciously gone through. You are balanc-
ing not only the events of the past few weeks, the events of the
past Action Cycle, the events of your entire spiritual development
of this lifetime expression, but you are balancing the spiritual
evolvement of Man on the planet Earth.
Now through these dedicated ones is that balance taking
place. Hearken carefully to every thought that passs through your
--IBind. Listen to every thought as though it was a being, an indivi-
dual friend or enemy. If it be a friend, embrace it, clothe it, protect
it. If he be an enemy, sweep it out, destroy it without mercy! For
now you are to come forth and to demonstrate for all Mankind, in
this present Era of Mark-Age, that Consciousness which is to be
perfect, without flaw. You cannot tolerate enemies or deceivers in
the house or the temple of your own Being. Help ye one another to
do this. Above all, do not realse the vigil that you have come to
recognize as the most important Light-bearing moment of your
present Earth existence.
Much is not said in this communication. Speak it out among
yourselves. Meditate upon it in the privacy of your own thoughts.
But leave it not alone. Hold it close - and you will have me, when
you do hold these thoughts close. For I Am more present with you
that I have ever been - but not more than I shall be soon!
All that has been promised to you is to be fulfilled - and you
will see it, and you will know it and you will be filled with satisfac-
tion! Amen. I am JIDSUS.
MA/ Y - 10/ 3/61
* * * * * *
MICHAIDL, of the Band of Angels which bring about Truth and
Manifestation of Truth. Be not impatient! We serve you all,, and
know in advance where best to serve, and when to bear fruit that
is yours to bring into the world.
I Am in this Program and with this Project and cannot be dis-
11
suaded from my course, as I have with me the power of many
millions to bring forth that which is -decreed from the beginning
of time!
Lo, your eyes are to be opened! Hark, your ears are to be un-
stopped! Cheers, for your voice is to be flung across the nations
and herald the New Day for Earth! MICHAEL Band of Angels
serves this Program. MA/Y - 10/ 3/61
My own Beloved, I AM JffiSUS. With a heart filled with Thanks-
giving, with joy unbounded in the human bosom, I touch your
hearts and speak to the innermost being of Mankind.
Come at once and answer the Call. Come at once and be with
me where I Am. Children of God you are, and Sons of Man you will
be. When I have spoken to you in the past you have not under-
stood my words many times, and yet I continued ·to speak. No
longer can I speak to deaf ears, to stopped-up hearts! The time is
now for action. No longer may I be given permission to teach, as I
must now act - and you must fulfill this performance.
Dedication Ceremony of
Mark - Age MetaCenter in Miami
Blessed art thou who have received my Love and my Blessings
of Spirit, the Father - Mother Energy and Creator of All. I Am
JESUS OF NAZARETH, the leader of this Program and the Prince
of this planet. You are here gathered in a private conclave to re-
ceive this first of a series of energy transmissions to the Mark-Age
Associates around the world.
Of myself I give and have nothing. But of the Father-Mother
God I am All, and give All and bless All. You, my co-creators in
Christ, shall bring forth new Thought, new Peace, new Dedication
to the Race of Man on Earth during this Mark-Age period of time.
No more can confusion and chaos reign. In all such as you see in
this present house there is confusion, which must be set in or:ier.
Work them in the House of the Soul of Mankind as you work
in this house of Earth. Work from room to room, thought to
thought, error by error - cleansing, setting right and replacing
with Beauty, with Love and with Dedication. This is the principle
by which we have demonstrated your present new cycle of healing.
Soon you will know of the tremendous scope of your new phase of
operation. But first we bring your house in order, your lives in
order, your thoughts in order. Then we release this order into the
disorder, and bring about harmony and new understanding.
Through the doors of this New Age - this which you call :Meta-
Center - we bring all who are to be one on the planet. They will
come in many ways - not all in the physical, third-dimensional body.
They will come in thought. They will come in the astral. They will
come with their etheric bodies only - seeking you, contacting you
12
and being healed by you. For you are the focal point now of our
work. Our energies of the Etheric Realm are centered in and
around this group of five, six, seven and soon to be eight.
Physically, you are numbered with a few- spiritually, you are
beyond counting. When the time comes for you to be consciously
aware of what is taking place in your own bodies, within your own
group and within your own Center here, you shall be enlightened
with a Light that shall shine as a beacon for every man on Earth to
know. For here is centralized our physical hope, our physical ener-
gies. In and around those with whom you come in contact - on
~any levels of thought, of physical contact, of spiritual union -
you do have, and will have, represented every brother, every facet
of Light Workers, in God's Kingdoms. This is as it should be.
Know henceforth that all who are coordinated, cooperating,
with the work coming forth have our blessings - have our special
energy and creative thought cleansings. None are too small, no
problem is too great, that we cannot coordinate and cooperatively
change for God. We must begin now to know this, to do this and
to be this in action.
None are the same today that they were yesterday, none yes-
terday as they were before - for each day brings an opportunity
for us to raise higher and higher the understanding, the dedication
and eventually the demonstration. Go then among your friends and
fellow workers. Go then about your affairs, knowing that you re-
present a focal point, or a pin-head, of activity and action far be-
yond your physical understanding.
Love ye one another! For as you demonstrate this, you demon-
strate the love for God, for Peace and for all - in Unity and One-
ness forever. Great is the blessing that you know not of, and gi-eater
is the blessing that you now have seen. Amen. Amen. A!llen.
Sholom. (Jesus then spoke in a language not recognized by us.)
Lord, I am yours to command. Let me hear Your Voice, and be
Your Instrument of Peace. I am JESUS. MA/ Y - 11/ 11/ 61
I Am JESUS of NAZARETH. Blessings from on high. Peace to
all in God's Kingdom. May you know the rewards of everlasting
Life - here on Earth, as on every Realm here - after.
We bring you Love. We bring you Strength. We bring you Aid.
From millions upon millions who know your mission, more than
you presently know of it. Hear then this decree: Father of us all,
Creator of the Universes, we join with You for Peace in Your
House now. We let nothing disturb our atmosphere, our planet, our
life. For in You is only Peace, Order and Harmony. Therefore in us
can only be Peace, only Order, and the Harmony which You Are.
Go and bring about this Order and Harmony. It is not a strug-
gle and it is not a problem, for it already exists - and you are to see
it, and it will be! Come unto me, those who question and worry on
the way. For I have laid down the foundation walk, and you may
follow in those steps without stumbling or without fear. There is
13
no problem that has not been covered, cleansed and set right. But
there is already Justice. There is already Love. We have gathered
together from all realms at this moment to instill through this work
of Mark-Age, Unit No. 7, the path that is before the Earth plane.
Not a single orderly progression of steps can be eliminated. But
every part and particle must be examined and put into its proper
place.
This you are seeing before you, demonstrated in many Realms
of existence. You have but to see with an open heart and mind, to
know what is being clearly defined for the world today. Not only
you, but the Unit itEielf, must learn from what the Unit is demon-
strating. This then is my farewell for this particular phase.
More will come, but not in this way. Grieve not - for you have
advanced, and therefore you will be rewarded with a higher expres-
sion. Many will receive. Many will speak. Many will see. But you, as
a Unit for a particular focal point, progress now toward another
demonstration. Give it what you have given in the past : faith,
loyalty and unequivocal devotion. This is dem anded of all who
seek the Christ Light! This is the Christ Light. Be therefore at
Peace, and in Oneness with the Christ Light - for in each of you is
the Light, the Love and the Knowledge of God. Beloved, bow before
the Light, as Yolanda has bowed before the Will. Sholom.
MA/ Y - 11/ 15/ 61
Mark Age Dedicates Himself
T o Program Jesus for Mark-Age Period
I speak as MARK AGE. I take within my hands the POWER
for this Program, and I pass along the road to speak the words of
Wisdom, given forth from the One Leader of this Program. This is
the moment of Gfory for all in this Period, because we know that
we can step forth and deliver unto the Father, His children and
people. With this vow, and in dedication to all who ever served this
planet, this Program, and this dimension, I now fulfill that which I
am expected to be. ·
* * * * * *
I Am JESITS or NAZARETH. Children of God, speak! Friends
of Light, act! Co-workers in Christ, be!
Go forward in Love, and remember the ONE we all serve
simultaneously. I Am, therefore you Are. Peace. Love. God is ONE.
Gentle is the man who picks up his brother and carries him through
the wars and the hell of Eternal Grace. You have not chosen an
easy path. But the road is set, and the workers are there to light
the way, and to lift the Light.
We now speak in words of vague parables because you have
been given your key. Whence forth cometh the Truth, if not in
ways hidden and secluded? Unearth the Plan! Unearth the Plan!
Reveal the Light! BE.
I bless each one. I know each soul. I rejoice with all. Peace is
mine, and Peace can be yours. How can you know the Peace in the
14
midst of war? By the Light that is! I see all is well. I decree that
you shall lead this Era and enter into My Peace. NOW! The POWER
sees it! The LOVE' brings it forth! SO BE IT! I am JESUS.
My Name is MARY. Blessings, Peace and Love. Before you all,
I kneel and lift up my eyes to the Lord and see here is the Love, the
Strength, the Light to lift us beyond the Plan and the Coordination
we consciously seek. I speak, too, in words beyond Words of mortal
connections. Look beyond, and look beneath, the words I speak.
You will find there the wealth of my heart, of my soul and my
Being. I Am MARY.
**::tc***
I Am YOLANDA OF THE SUN. When I speak, I am before you
a servant of the Light. When I act, I bring forth the movement of
the Lord. SO BE IT! MA/Y - 11/18/61
Fe'b. Configuration of Planets
I greet you with Blessings and with Love. This is DR. HANNI-
BAL speaking. We will make this a most short greeting, due to the
atmospheric conditions. However, it is necessary for us to use this
means to clarify your present state of mind. Too often you are
willing to wait for signs that you must act. Many are still doing
this - and asking for meanings of the signs they already receive.
We have spoken for many eons of time about spiritual signs, spirit-
ual dedications and the love you must have for one another! Yet
you still hesitate for more proof that this is what is expected!
We are embarking on the greatest moment in Earth's history -
for your recorded time. It is not only an opportunity to be one with
all men, and to be one with all Creation, it is an utimatum? Be-
cause this entire Solar System moves forward. You have been wait-
ing for news about the configuration of planets - assuming, in your
Earth egotism, that this configuration was a sign for the Earth
planet only. What about the planets which are in the configuration?
Do they not also become affected by this joint movement in the
heavenly body? Are they not affected by the play, one upon the
other, in their movements and progression? You know the answer
before the question is finished. So I say to you that this configura-
tion and this time that you are all waiting to see is not only a sign
for the Earth planet, but it is a sign for this Solar System - to play
upon one another, to extract from one another the vibrational fre-
quency, love and purpose that each plays upon in the Symphony
of this particular <System.
Go not away from this meeting and say: I have gained another
interesting speculative thought - for you have gained the Truth!
And the Truth can set you free to be what you are destined to be -
a full son of God - working not only with one another upon the
planet, but with one another in the Universe - for you will have
this opportunity to make it a final Event. There is no choice, be-
cause the planet must move along in conjunction with all other
planets in the Solor System, regardless of what men will do!
15
But remember this: you are connected with every single hu-
man being and part of Creation upon the Earth planet. What one
of you does affects all the others. Your destiny -or karma, as you
might call it - your future progress in the soul concept of it, is en-
twined with that destiny of every other man, woman and child
upon the planet. So do not feel that you can escape into a higher
concept or realm, while others will be pushed off into some distant
unknown experience, without your having to have anything to do
with that experience. For it is not so!
While you are on the planet you are morally, spiritually obli-
gated to everyone connected with the incarnation of this Race
at this time! This is the main reason why great Masters make great
sacrifices when they incarnate upon any dimension or plane, at any
given time, for they do not come free and clear, as you would put
it. They come with the debt of the entire Race upon their souls.
They become connected, .in every single way, with the destiny of
that Race Consciousness.
Therefore, remember that it is.not enough to know that your
consciousness is cleared and that your understanding will bring
you into a higher expression. You must also feel the respo·nsibility
for every other one upon the planet incarnate at this time! This is
the way of the Solar Logos. This is the way of Spirit. This is the
way of your own consciousness. And we deal with your conscious-
ness, the consciousness of the Race, the consciousness of the en-
tire Solar System - and of course we are concerned primarily with
the progress of all into Spirit, which are of Spirit. I am deeply and
vitally involved in the karmic Race now incarnate on the planet.
I know it - and therefore I make every effort to expend every
energy to improve all conditions, whether on the visible realm or
the invisible realm.
Soon you will have all forms of. signs. But the man and the
woman who will seek signs now will seek them when they appear
again - because it becomes a habit of the mind, a caution of the
soul, and there is no freedom for the Spirit. Suffice it now to say
I am with you, and will work with you - but I will not excuse those
thoughts of negligence to yourself, to your fellowman and to the
Father Which we all serve, and from Which we have all originated!
So be it. HANNIBAL checking out.
I Am MARY. Children of God, I behold you - and speak to
you, for comfort and with Love. Yours is the travail of the mother
giving birth, and I know this travail. Yours is the responsibility of
the father, bringing peace and protection to the mother. But what
can be done to bring about a peaceful birth in yourself and in all
men? The balance of both in you now! Know in yourselves the
pangs of the mother, and be strong in the will and determination
of the father!
For it took both man and woman to bring forth the Christ
Child in the manger. Were it not for the guidance, the steadiness,
the devotion and the tremendous faith of him who you know as
16
Joseph, Mary could not find a place to bring forth the child. You
must be Joseph, and you are Mary. And I Am in the Christ, as you
are part of the Christ. The Christ is in you - and wishes you now
to come forth! So be it! My Name is MARY. MA/Y - 11/29-61
* * * * * *
PAUL, Apostle to the Christ Jesus of Nazareth - greeting you,
blessing you, seeing you risen into the Light Which you strive to
teach and to be. We are here present many from this realm of
Christ Consciousness, to see what is to be. Shortly the forces upon
the Earth plane striving for this consciousness will be united in one
fell swoop, to know who they are and what they have come to do.
It is a plan beyond your mortal comprehension and one which is
grander than any scheme that has ever been carried out by mortal
man - for it is not the plan of man, but that Plan of S,pirit pro-
phesied in all texts of Spirit from the beginning.
You have heard recorded this evening some of the history of
man upon this planet (Dr. Gordon, through Neva Dell Hunter).
Therefore you will be prepared to know that as we have, as men,
striven to bring about this Understanding and Consciousness, we
have failed until now - when it will be brought about for a whole
Race, and all men everywhere in the Third Dimension.
The Third Dimension is no more to be upon the planet Earth -
and in the Fourth Realm of Understanding we rise to express a high
er Consciousness and expediency. Let me here congratulate all
who are preparing, and are ready, for this unity. I speak not so
much to the ones who are present as to the ones who can hear
from the inner planes with the inner ears. Speaking to this Channel
brings the power of this Force, which I Am, into this dimension.
Let all know that I, Paul, Apostle to the Christ, shall carry forth my
plan from the beginning of time for this planet, and my role. It is
so decreed! So I see it, therefore it must be! Prayers and blessings
are yours from all who are One in the Christ. SO BE IT!
* * * * * *
JESUS. Blessings and Peace unto you all - for as we come
closer into the vibrational rate of your expression on the Earth
plane, you will need the power of our Understanding and our Peace
to have you bear the brunt of reaction which must lash back against
the bearers of Light in any New Age.
But this does not daunt you, nor has it ever! For you are well
prepared - not only from some experience in this life, but from the
accumulation of all your experiences of all your lives in this parti-
cular way, as a preparation of this Time. I speak now thus to tell
you I Am come, as I have promised! I am among you, but not as
you would expect!
I walk among this planet - the people, the feeling nature and
the thought patterns - as though I walked in a field of wheat,
brushing against each grain, feeling what heaviness of its harvest
would feel agains the bareness of the hand which shall hold the
sheath. I have come to harvest my Field! And you shall walk with
17
me, directed by me - for this Harvest is now! I will not wait - nor
can you afford another day's grace! The time is now! I Am with
you always - and I Am among you! Seek me out - and you will
find me in each other. So it is the way of the Lord and the way of
the Christ Consciousness.
Lo, there is a Day when the Reckoning of God must be made!
This is the Day! Now is the Hour! I Am here with you! SHOLOM.
SHOLOM. SHOLOM. MA/ Y - 11/21/61
UNIVERSARIUN SPACE MESSAGES
THE TIME IS NOW UPON YOU
ORLON
Channeling Contact, channeling Contact. All-channel alert,
all-channel alert. Transmission now beaming to all channels on
wide band of reception. Transmission terminating on night of Oct.
31. Delicate balance of this channel's receptivity tampered with;
repairs to receiving apparatus now being conducted.
All-channel alert, all-channel alert. Transmission now being
relayed to all channels on wide beam of reception. Transmission
terminating on October 31. (This is being repeated over and over;
as it finishes, it begins again as if it is being played on a grama-
phone record going round and round.)
Vectoring commencing. Receptivity poor. Experimental de-
vices now being put into operation to nullify negativity pattern
\Jpon Earth planet preparatory to cleansing program now about to
commence. Negativity waves of strong magnitude beaming into
troubled areas must be cut through by light beam transmission and
grounded by all light unit channels in these areas.
Your unit ordered to stand by preparatory to receiving fur-
ther communications from High Command on Saturn. Avoid dam-
age to personnel while negative forces operating within your fre-
quency (or time band, am uncertain of exact word.)
We recall your minds to previous transmissions given you in
preparation for the time now upon you. Failure to regard with due
seriousness instructions previously given you will result only in
confusion and distress within your midst. You have been prepared
for that which is coming and must at all times adjust your con-
sciousness to the sudden eruption of said conditions within your
areas. Failure to do so will only cause confusion and distress with-
in your midst, we repeat again. Your unit is part of a Greater Plan
and must operate harmoniously within that Plan in order to facili-
tate the withdrawal of all personnel from areas which are in immi-
nent danger of disturbances of earth-shaking proportions.
CONCERN YOURJSiELVIDS, NOT WITH THOSE WHOM YOU
CANNOT REACH. ALL AT THIS TIME HAVE MADE THEIR
CHOICE AS TO WHERE THEY STAND AND MUST BE ACCORD-
ED THE FRIDIDWILL OF CHOOSING THEIR OWN DIDS.TINIES.
Furthermore other plans also are in operation for others of your
fellows upon' this planet, and for their withdrawal either in or out
18
of physical third dimensional bodies. Concern yourselves with your
own unity and with your own souls, or states of consciousness; for
only so can you aid others as the time comes upon you to do so.
If the disturbances so augmented by natural events of catacly-
smic proportion shake your coastline, you must expect TIDAL
WAVES, of much magnitude. You will then leave this area at the
first hint of faultline upheaval and make your way further back be-
hind your mountain range unless you plan to travel further north.
Do not go into your desert areas as there is imminent danger of
the reopening of ancient underground lakes and the flooding of
certain of these low-lying desert terrains. Your safety is a matter
of concern to us, not only because you are dear to us as brothers
and sisters in Light; but of your service at this time to your own
peoples and your planet. And for this you must reserve yourselves.
Prepare in consciousness that you may not be overtaken with
fear thoughts. There is still a degree of chance involved though
chance is perhaps not the word which should be used. There is
still a degree of possibility as to the avoidance of these conditions;
but you would do well, our brothers, our sisters, to be prepared FOR
THE POSSIBILITY APPIDARS SLIGHT.
We do not transmit longer upon this occasion; but ask that
ynu keep in close contact within the next few of your days to re-
ceive further data. We terminate our transmission.
I, ORLON, again am with you and will continue so until we
at last meet. May the Light of the All Knowing One be with you.
Channel
Marianne Francis
~:***:K:*
OPERATION LANDING IS NOW IMMINENT
TUKARI SPIDAKING:
Bless you! bless you! bless you! BLIDSS YOU, each and every
one of you! I am TUKARI. You will see me soon! This is a pro-
mise, I shall not fail you. But do not be in ecstacy about this ; for
this is a part of your function as well as ours.
I would not give you a long message. All I want to do is to
verify myself to you and say that I am a physical being. You will
see me in the physical. Most of you will be invited to go with me
into my craft, or one of the craft with me. I come to you and the
other polarity of the axis. Rama has given you the reason this axis
must be activated at this particular time. That is the reason it was
so suddenly activated.
OPERATION LANDING IS NOW IMMINENT. We must do it
immediately as there are things of chaos and confusion coming up
in your world. There will be many events coming with great rapid-
ity which we are not permitted to give you. We will notify you when
to expect us in your atmosphere and area.
Rama will manifest in this Show Man Operation as an :mtheric
Being who can now, and has been able to for some time, change
19
his appearance and condition to suit the occasion as many of those
whom you know can do. He is reticent about telling you; but I will
te~l you that you will ~ee him. Perhaps not in the physical; but you
w~ be abl~ to sense his presence and see his face. I now leave you
with blessmgs, peace, harmony, tranquility and love. I will see you
soon.
* * * * * *
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS CONCERNING WORLD
CONDITIONS
RAMA
Ah! TUKARI has let the cat out of the bag. But you will be
able to pet the cat! We might as well have some fun! Yes, we are
the same as you. We appreciate your humility and sense of humor.
In this vibration I will for a short period try to answer your ques-
tions if they are of a general nature.
Q. Is it possible to tell us whether the resumption of the
atomic testing will be the setting off of the cataclysm which shall
reach our Earth, as has been told us before?
A. Tukari has just told you there are some things coming
into your atmosphere that can not be revealed to you. That is the
reason our operation is so necessary and vital at this particular
point. This is the resumption, let me tell you, of the Forces of Dark-
ness that are now upon the threshold of destruction. Know ye that
they are in great travail. They are activated to a point where they
have not been heretofore, and they will be more activated in the
very near future. Therefore, we must have an operation which will
offset this. That is why we are coming into your atmosphere.
I have been informed that after this operation is over, many
of the Dark Forces will be chained to the guillotine, so to speak,
and a different attitude, or method of thinking will permeate the
leaders of all nations concerned. That is the reason, my beloved,
that we are taking the risk we are in this mass landing operation.
Do you REALIZE THE, RISK THAT WE ARE TAKING IN THIS
OPERATION? You are ecstatic that you will go with us. Are we
ecstatic that we will come to your atmosphere? Yes, we are; but
we realize also the dangers involved to us physically, personally,
to our craft, and even to some of you who might not be protected
by your own affirmations and circle of light which YOU MUST
PLACE AROUND YOU BEFORE YOU CONTACT US.
You will be given specific instructions concerning this pro-
tection before we land. Those who are not protected will not be
able to come even close to our craft. I feel it is necessary at this
time that you should know this. You have been wondering how we
will keep the masses away. It is by the circle of light protection
whi9h will be thrown around you; and which you will have to
throw around yourself in order to contact us or go up into our craft.
20
All of this is a counter action to the resumption of not only the
atomic tests, but the war hysteria which has entered the minds of
a few leaders of your planet. This could erupt into a catcylsm that
would not be pleasant for you. Does that answer your question,
my dear? Yes, thank you.
Q. Rama, would you like to comment concerning our dear
ones who are not interested in this at all. Would the fact that some
of us are interested help them at all?
A. This Operation Landing will bring many into the fold of
1 understanding who have not yet even touched the surface. That is
one of the purposes of it. But do not invite them, nor do not let
them know of this unless you are very sure they will understand
what this is all about. This is a very concrete operation and it will
be seen by thousands and thousands of people. But it is not for the
masses to touch us or even come near us.
Your loved ones and friends, certainly, they will be impressed
and you will be able to talk to them. You can even, if you are in-
clined to, say, "Now I told you so! You see! I told you so. We have
PROOF now for you!" They will understand then. But alas, some·
of them will not. Some are very obtuse!
I am not speaking now of your particular ones, my dear; but _
I am speaking of the loved ones and relatives and friends of many
in this room. They are still very obtuse. They can't even understand
what two and two are. Perhaps they think they are five! But soon
they will be given a greater understanding. And that, my dear, is
the main purpose of this operation - to bring your loved ones and
friends into a greater understanding of what this is all about.
Q. We have been promised there will be a special light that
would be made manifest. Is this going to be a light that will be
visible to all or will it be only to the overcomers?
A. The light which you have reference to will not be mani-
fested at this time in the mass landing operation. The light, referred
to in many of your messages as well as those from other channels,
is the Christ Light, or light from the Higher Realms, as you under-
stand it. This will not come at this time, for this is a PHYSICAL
manifestation. The other will be an ETHEREAL or heavenly mani-
festation at a later time.
There are many things I cannot reveal to you; but I would
have you visualize a great company of space ships landing in your
immediate vicinity. Our space ships will come from Venus, from
Mars and some from Saturn; but predominantly from Venus. They
will be Marsian craft mostly. They emanate light. We can control
this light; but if a fleet of ships are together there is always a
manifestation of light. It is very difficult to control light where
there are many craft together. In fact, we do not want to control
it at this particular time except to soften it so that it will not be an
alarming sort of thing.
Q. This first landing that will take place; will it be in the
outskirts of the city or in the country?
21
A. I cannot give you a specific answer because that would
entail publicity which we cannot have at this particular time. Your
channel, and others in your group will be notified of the place of
this landing before it is made. There will also be another manifes-
tation which we are not permitted to give you at this time, before
this takes place, so that you will be notified in plenty of time.
There will be thousands who will only see us from a distance and
wonder what is taking place.
This information shall not be publisized until the time is ready
for the actual landing. Then the world will know about it. All news
media, television, radio, all continents will be buzzing with it. What
is the effect of this? We have told you. Their minds will be turned
from war; from the dark thoughts they entertain and wonder what
this is all about. Why did this happen? Then they will be convinc-
ed. Even those in the Pentagon will dance jigs around their Jesks,
wondering what this is all about and exclaim, "What has happened
now?"
Q. Define the term "overcomers" please.
A. I am glad you asked that question, and I will answer it as
fully as I can. TUKARI used this term in his message because of
the fact that there is a misconception of what is meant by the
"elect." The churches have thought that the "elect" meant those
who bowed at the altar, who went to church every Sunday, who
drank of the wine and took of the bread and were baptized correct-
ly. These are not the "elect" even though they have been designat-
ed as such.
We used the more descriptive term of "overcomers." If you
are trying conscientiously ... and every one in this room is trying
to be overcomers. You cannot overcome EVERYTHING; it does
not mean that it is possible for you to overcome all things, or all .
evil. All evil can be overcome only by the Creator Himself. Even
Jesus, did not overcome all evil; for He was tempted of the Devil.
However, He did not accede to that temptation. But there are forces
in the world which you must overcome, such as your appetites.
You must also overcome your propensity to envy and jealousy as
well as your propensities to recrimination or even judgment, or any
of the other qualities which belong to the darker side of life.
There is no line of strict demarcation between the overcomers
and those who will converse with us and be taken with us. If you
are striving to ov·ercome the flesh and the Devil as you undemtand
it; then you are an overcomer. That is about as fully as I can give
at this time.
Q. Will atomic war be averted?
A. My dear, I am not God, I am not even on the ascendancy
of the Masters who know the answer to that question. You have
been told hundreds and hundreds of times, war and all darkness
can be overcome by the Forces of Light. Now, it would seerr1 at
this moment that war of some sort is inevitable, unless, unless, UN-
LEiSS, UNLESS - let us use that word so that you will under-
stand it - UNLESS THE LANDING OF THE SPACE CRAFT given
22
on strict orders from our Commander-in-Chief, is a partial allevia-
tion or counteraction of the war hysteria and scare. It is possible
that it may be averted. But in the kaleidoscope of time as we look
at it from here, even though we have a grandstand seat of those
things that are coming - yet we cannot predict them, or even giv·e
you prophecy. Only revelation can be given from day to day and
hour to hour of that which is coming.
War may be averted, war may not be averted. Only those who
are far beyond our own galaxy, and I say "our own galaxy" can
give you the answer to this question for they have all knowledge,
all wisdom and all power. But the power which is projected will be
projected by this axis which has been established, may be the
means of averting an atomic or any other kind of shooting war.
That is the answer I give you at this time. ·
One more question as we must leave the channels; for the
vibration is receding somewhat. In order to answer questions the
:vibration must be very high; for the consciousness of your chan-
nel must be in perfect tune with us in order that he may not answer
the questions from his own consciousness, but only those words
and thoughts which I give him. (There was one more question
of a personal nature to the inquirer.)
Now, my beloved ones, I have giv.en you opportunity for
greater knowledge and understanding of the function you are to
perform in this coming operation. It is not out of this world
because you are still in the world. You will be still in it if you go
with us, which some of you will. But, you MUS.T BE PRIDPARED
TO ACCEPT THOSE THINGS WHICH WILL BE REVEALED TO
YOU AT THAT TIME A-SA PART OF YOUR RESPONSIBILITY.
You hav·e not, some of you, accepted up to this time even, the
great responsibility that has been placed upon you.
I am not chiding you, I am simply stating a fact. That is not
in any sense of the word a reprimand. Part of the purpose of this
landing is to bring into your consciousness, even those here, to
understand this situation. You should be brought into a fuller
realization of what the world and the etheric realm is up against
in the conquoring of the Forces of Darkness. You have not yet
fully realized this, even some of the overcomers. And you must
realize this more fully.
You must become ONE' with the Creator. You must receive
revelation, not altogether from this channel nor other channels
but it must come within the consciousness, within the Christ Self,
within the Higher Self. You will be brought into greater con-
sciousness of this through meditation.
One more point, then I must close. That is the preparation of
your bodies for this contact which you will make with us. You have
been conditioned, and most of you here realize that you have. Do
not fail to continue this conditioning. Do not carry it to extremes,
simply follow instructions that you are given.
23
I have given you a great deal more than I had intended. I bless
you now. There are many here with me who bless you. They would
like to speak to you, but the hour is late. We believe that we have
given you a complete picture, as complete as you can comprehend
at the present time, of what this is all about and why we are com-
ing, what you shall do, and how you shall behave. We know that
you will behave properly. The question is: How will we behave?
(Laughter) We want to know that too. TUKARI? Yes Tukari? He
says that he is wondering how he will behave!
Now I bless you all and bid you a most joyous and pleasant
good night to each and every one of you beloved souls. Good night
and God bless you.
There followed many words in a strange language, a moment
later translated into English. This was transmitted in a strong
and powerful vibration.
I AM the Creator of all that is, all that shall be. I AM the Uni-
versal. I AM that I AM. I give unto thee my blessings this night
and thou art indeed b1essed. I shall take thee to my busom and
thou shalt know that thou art the children of light. I AM that I AM.
I come unto thee in blessings and peace. The peace that passeth all
understanding shall remain with you forever and ever and thou
shalt know that thou hast been with thy Lord upon the Mount of
Transfiguration. Amen and amen forevermore. Selah.
Channel
Zelrun Karsleigh
We would like to add this not to our readers, that the above
messages of this night came through in a delightfully high -vibra-
tion of love and joy, and fun and frolic spirit.
* * * * * *
TO OUR READERS:
From these messages there would seem to be contradiction
concerning the "Pick Up Plan" and the "Survival Plan." Perhaps
it should be brought to our attention that there are many phases
to the Master Plan. In these transmissions are represented three
different groups who are carrying out three different aspects of
the Master Plan in two different localities.
There are those who have a very deep-seated feeling that they
will remain to help during the periods of cataclysms ; those others
who feel they will remain for a limited time perhaps. And still
others who feel their work is completed for which they took em-
bodiment, even as has been cited in the August 16th transmission
through Marianne Francis. It is even as our Scriptures tell us :
"But every man in his own o,rder: Christ th~ first-fruits; after-
wards they that are Christ's at his coming."
1 Corinthians 15:23
24
September 6, 1961
Montecito, California
POLLUTION AND RADIO ACTIVITY IN THE NORTHERN
HEMISPHERE
Channel's impression: "Regain your sanity. Regain your sanity!"
(Think this is meant for our world and present nuclear mad-
ness.)
DIRECT TRANSMISSION:
Channeling commencing. Vectoring in operation now. Still
your minds to receive that which we are transmitting to each one
of you, according to your ability to receive. "
We recognize your concern regarding your world situation and
other matters at this time. Your vibrations are somewhat disturb-
ed and must be stilled in order for us to transmit accurately.
Disturbance in your atmosphere due to the pollution from the
nuclear tests now in progress and those about to take place, will
ultimately result in a rapid rise in radioactivity over your U.S.A.,
and also other countries in this northern hemispheric band.
You must r·egard your position now as being dangerous and
must take all means known to yourselves to cleanse your bodies
from pollution as has previously been suggested to you. If fmther
contamination of your atmosphere takes place it will be impo8sible
for us to bring in craft due to the destructive nature of the radio-
active clouds drifting in your atmosphere. (Reference to impossi-
bility of bringing in craft if atmosphere further contamjnated by
radioactive fallout has previously been mentioned by the Brothers.
This ·enlarged upon means they will not be able to bring in craft
UNTIL they mop up the radioactivity. How long this will take,
whether days, weeks or months, will depend on how HEAVY the
fallout is. M. F.)
We suggest, our brothers, our sisters, that you hold yourself
in readiness at all times to remove from this area to one you have
chosen as safer from contamination.
You must erase from your minds all thoughts as to the nor-
malcy of life on your planet. Conditions are no longer approaching
anything which might be considered normal. The rapid downward
trend, both as to your international tensions and the nuclear exper-
imentations, indicates to you that you are most definitely in a per-
iod which may betermed, without doubt, a crisis period.
You must, we repeat, our brothers, our sisters, you MUST
hold yourselves in readiness (If you wish to continue your lives
in these present bodies) to remove to another area if you wish to
continue to work with us in any degree of efficiency. ·
We do not say the hour has struck, but you must realize that
UNLESS a halt is caled in your present deteriorating world condi-
tions, that the hour WILL SOON STRIKE. We wish we could say
to you that we had been able to impress upon your world leaders
the danger of further nuclear tests. We thought for a period that
this was so but we find once more that this madness has com-
menced again.
25
Our transmission to you upon the last occasion was in readi-
ness for this which we saw approaching. It was known to us the
situation which was about to take place. This explains our trans-
mission through Yolanda of Miami, Florida, your U.S.A., to your-
selves in this unit, and to many others scattered throughout your
country. Also to the one known as Hope Troxell and many others.
You will find continuing corroboration in our transmissons as the
time comes upon you now.
(Ed. Note. We believe this has reference to the nuclear test-
ings in Siberia which are creating disturbances in the inner earth
at the point of the Himalayan Mountains. Also this information
published in the "Oregonian'', Portland, Oregon, September 3,
1961: "Within 600 air miles of where the Soviet Union tested its
newest atomic warhead in Siberia, the Chinese Communists are
feverishly pr·eparing for their first nuclear explosion on the 'roof
of the world.' This sinister atomic test is expected before the end of
the year and it may take place 'in a matter of week~.'
"Already, a massive army of Chinese Communists workers and
Soviet scientists have completed the construction of a network
of nuclear test towers and underground control bunkers and shelt-
ers in the northwest corner of Chang Tang Province on the great
plateau of Tibet. ·
"These unpublished details of nuclear test preparations by the
Chinese Reds arrived at the Defense Department a few days ago
from reliable Japanese sources with contacts on the China main-
land. They flatly warned that Moscow is turning over a Etmall
stockpile of nuclear weapons to Peiping for a series of joint Soviet-
Chinese nuclear tests during 1961.
"These Japanese sources also reported that the Soviets plan
to use the atomic testing site in Tibet to detonate the 100-megaton
monster bomb that Premier Khrushchev keeps talking about. This
test is to take place either in October or November.
"If a nuclear bomb of such power is detonated 50 to 100 miles
above the earth its explosion flash, like the northern lights, would
be visible for thousands of miles and in hundreds of countries
throughout the world.... also, such an explosion, with the destruc-
tive power equivalent to 100 million tons of TNT, might easily
knock out all radar, radio, TV and phone comunications around
the globe.
"In project Argus, the United States disrupted all communica-
tions over an area of several thousand square miles by exploding a
medium-size atomic bomb at great height. The Soviet's monster
bomb would make that test look like child's play.-Editorial by
Robert S. Allen)
26
Our brothers, we beseech you that you do not regard your
conditions as longer normal. You must regard them as crisis times
and hold yourself calmly, steadfastly, resolutely and RIDADY TO
ACT upon our instructions to you. We stress once more, you must
not panic, you must not become in any way unbalanced or unstable.
It is of vital importance that yoti maintain, at all costs, stability,
each individual and each unit. This will be harder at the present
time due to the radioactivity in the atmosphere. Guard yourselves
at all times against loss of your tempers or your stability.
We extend to you upon this occasion our deepst regrets as to
the position which you are placed in, and our love and brotherhood
surround you. Be aware of this and draw your strength from it and
from the light of our Radiant One which is ever with you, notwith-
standing the shadows which your own peoples place around their
planet. The New Age WILL dawn; the greater light WILL come
and you will see it.
Again, hold yourselves in readiness for further transmissions
at any and all hours of the night or day. You are all being prepared
and must continue being prepared to receive, both as individuals
and as a unit. Keep in close touch one with another and work to-
gether without personality conflicts. We extend to you the light of
our Radiant One.
September 10, 1961
Altadena, California
Channel
Marianne Francis
BE AWARE OF HIS MACNIFICANT CONTROL OF ALL TH!NCS
There are only 15 to 20 days left for curricular activity. No
more. The way is paved for your protection. Why do you pause to
worry? It is beauty in the mind that paves the way. It is proved
by One who paves all ways to serenity. Love in emotion, in thought,
in truth is the way to God's power, to His protection. Let these
things be in you.
Your way is shown ,children of light. Be not afraid. Be aware
of His magnificent control of all things. Be trusting peacefully and
in faith. The answers wil come to you as they have always come.
The time is short. Be brief in your thoughts and actions. Be prepar-
ed for the great trial ahead. His control will suffice.
Mighty power of creation! You who are disturbed by the smell
of war must master love and know there is one power alone which
can quell the demons working on Earth. The Earth will roll and toss
in its travail, but in the wake of these exercises will come a great
peace, for those lands who have sought beauty will find beauty.
Man has come away from the quality of divine favour al!d his
behavor is inspired by his brother, Cain. Woe be to them who fol-
low the lower case. Woe be to him who seeks not the higher medi-
tative conditions. He who searches the lower thought shall find it.
He who searches the higher light shall find it.
27
THUS SHALL YOU SEE THE SHIP WHICH CARRIIDS THE
SAVIOR, WHICH CARRIES THE MILLIONS. TO BE FREED. We
love the channels who carry light. We love you forever.
September 10, 1961
Altadena, California
Channel
Hope Troxell
BE STRONG IN YOUR THOUGHTS
FOR THE POWER OF FREEDOM IS IN THE AIR
Make the best of a barren situation. Do not be afraid. To be
safe you must be sure. It is the only safety in the holocaust to
come. Make your mind clear to the Father. Thus will you serve in
a higher condition. No harm can reach you who are chained to the
Father. Your E:arth must be cleansed and those who are chained
to it must also be cleansed.
The 15th is the date of INSTRUCTION; the time when you
will be told where to go, what to do. You will both hear it. Do not
be alarmed. Do not anticipate action. We are prepared to withhold
definite instructions until this date. All the coast will be alarmed
by the megaton fallout. Earth is coming to its final crisis THIS
FALL. Do not be alarmed, but save your energy for the time ahead.
The Earth is in a quivering state of intoxication. It is just as
pleasant to be intoxicated for those who like it. There will be many
powerful occurences on the Earth in the next few days or weeks:
a culmination of events prophesied in history.
Make your action CLEAR, whatever you do. Be strong in your
thoughts. It is the weak who must perish. Evil will be removed and
good will outlive the day. Nothing subject unto man has endured.
The power of FREEDOM is in the air, freedom of an exciting mea-
sure, a soaring into the God-planes of thought consciousness which
will eclipse the four freedoms your country stands for.
Freedom is a spiritual release, a conscious growth, not deter-
ioration of body or soul. Conscious growth includes manifestation
of building material, sensual, or spiritual, as he chooses. That which
is not harbored into spirit shall be destroyed. Poverty of spiritual
growth in the Earth is the reason for her lessening dimensions.
The poor mind which cannot decide, which vacillates and
wavers between the high and the low - thinks high and acts low,
- is indeed in a poor state of functioning. Matter wil.be retarded
unless it holds to the high functions of spiritual estate.
Make thee clean, 0 Children of Light, and the Earth beast must
decline. Our fellows of the Earth who think below must be removed.
It is the law of the Cosmos and will stand.
Channel
Hope Troxell
28
UNIVERSARIUN FOUNDDATION
September 15, 1961
Portland, Oregon
WE WILL SOON MANIFEST UPON YOUR PLANET
RAMA
GOOD EVENING TO YOU MY FRIENDS:
This is the best evening you have had. There are many who
would come to speak this night. Thank you for your meditations
and giving to us here in the etheric the vibrations of love, of har-
mony, and tranquility which you have placed into your own midst
and given to us also.
I will bring those who have a message for you. Some have re-
ceded in favor of those who are directly concerned with this Opera-
tion which thou hast projected tonight. The transmission is very
clear for you as there are those who have cleared your atmosphere
and your immediate midst of all evil.
I bring one who has not come to you before; one whose love
and understanding is projected to all people everywhere, and espe-
cially to you and the one to whom you have given your greatest
love tonight.
Come in! Come in!
GO IN PEACE AND WE WILL PROJECT THAT PEACE
·JUNE
GOOD EVENING MY DEARLY BELOVED:
This is JUNE of Venus. I am so happy that I could come to
thee. Each one of us in this craft where I am stationed thank you
for your affirmations and decrees. We are not too far from your
earthplane tonight. I want you to know that I came here for the
purpose of giving you this message and to stand by for any further
manifestations which might take place.
There are 22 from Venus in this craft with me, No. 1208. It
will soon manifest itself on your planet. You will receive a mes-·
sage from another of your teachers who will tell you more of the
space craft which will land on your planet. That is not my func-
tion. I can see there are several who will speak to you to tell you of
various things.
But, I, JUNE of Venus, do send you my love and understand-
ing. You, my dear friends, each and every one of you here, have
received a confirmation of your mission. You know what it is and
you are willing to do it. s,o go in peace and I and all of those with
me will help to project that peace. We will project this through the
Creator of the Universe who gives peace to all people upon all
planes of understanding, in whatever planet or sector of the .uni-
verse it may come from. We are all one.
I now bless you and thank you and RAMA for the privilege
of talking to you tonight. This is JUNE of Venus bidding you good
night. Blessings I leave with you, and bestow them upon you in all
grace and glory. Amen.
29
THIS IS THE DAY OF PREPARATION
TUKARI
TUKARI SPIDAKS:
I must come to you quickly for you are all in a state of ex-
pectation. You are wondering what is going to be the verdict of
our manifestation on your planet this night, which you have been
told.
Now, my dear ones, I will not disappoint you. However, I am
going to tell you this . .. You received, did you not, from two dif-
ferent sources that September 15th would be a date of PREPARA-
TION. You have prepared the way of the coming of the space ships
and the coming of the Lord. You, my friends, have helped to pre-
pare the way for a triumphant entry into the great spaces of light.
For know ye, that the space that you have visualized as "outer-
space" is a space of light. Light comes from all directions ; light
penetrates all of the dark corners and there are none in the places
where you designate as outerspace.
Now, tonight, we will not be able to come to your atmosphere
to pick up any of your persons. But some of our ships are coming-
there will be three of them; and it is possible, if you will look close-
ly about one o'clock tonight you will be able to see those who are
picking up the personnel who have completed their mission as you
have been told in a message received from another channel. (Ed.
note. See message received through Marianne Francis on August
16, 1961. First transmission in this bulletin.)
This may be somewhat of a disappointment to you, but it will
not be for long. This can not occur, as your channel was impress-
ed, and told you earlier in the evening, that this pickup cannot take
place until ALL are in harmony and rapport with each other. This
is being rapidly consumated and brought into manifestation and it
will be only a few days now until we can manifest this entire pro-
gram and do the things which we have promised you we would do.
It was the plan that you would be picked up tonight and be
taken altogether. You cannot be taken separately as this would
nullify the effect and would not be the thing to do. Know that there
will be some who will try to find out what we are, who we are, and
try to stop the landing. That is the reason we have projected to
you that this is a somewhat dangerous operation. We have wanted
to know how we would behave and what our reactions would be.
We must know these things because we cannot take chances. You
are taking chances and we are taking chances. But glory be to the
Father of us all and to our Commander-in-Chief, Jesus the Christ.
We can take this chance for He will protect us by the Divine Christ
Light which will be thrown around our ships, .and you, as you will
be manifested to us. You will see us before we come in. Watch and
wait and pray!
30
I am sorry, my beloved, that we cannot accommodate you
this night, as you all expected. But you know very well you were
brought together for the manifestation and projection of love for
the Triumverate. That word "triumverate", my friends, is very
important. It is a word which must be used in all manifestations
upon the earthplane from now on. It does not mean just a triumver-
ate of channels, nor a triumverate of groups. It means the Father,
Son and Holy Spirit, as you have visualized it. It means the triumph
and triumverate of all things in the universe: love, wisdom, under-
standing. There must be THREE of ALL things upon your earth-
plane and in the etheric before there can be perfection. You know
that the figure 3 and the triangle stand for perfection. All three of
everything must be linked together. That is the reason this 'fri-
umverate was brought together.
I do not know all of the circumstances concerning this Trium-
verate, for as I have told you before I am not too familiar with all
of the spiritual undertakings or manifestations which are taking
place. I am only a Commander-in-Chief of space ships. I have a
great knowledge of flights in space and what can be accomplished.
But I do know that you are blessed and among those who have
been selected to receive the greater glory and the greater messages.
All of you who are listening to my voice at this time will be
taken up with us. That I promise you, so that you need not wonder
if you are going to be taken. You were inspired to come to this
place. Be not disappointed about this because it can be done at a
future time.
This is a great PRIDPARATION date. We in the etheric here
knew this, those of us who are assembled here. I am now on space
ship No. 1265. Dr. Hannibal is here with me. Jesus is not with us
at this particular time; but there are many others here in the craft.
We are not beaming directly to you as we did on a previous occa-
sion (August 20, 1961) but giving this through our regular relay
station upon the planet Mars - not Saturn, as this was an easier
transmission. The channels are not as crowded there now as they
have been.
You must receive this in the spirit in which it is given and not
as a disappointment, or a retention of our promse. We promised you
nothing except that you would have a preparation date of Septem-
ber 15, and this is the date of September 15th.
You are being prepared; the Triumverate is being prepared.
Know also that at this particular time, which you will have con-
firmed later, we are also beaming simultaneously as we did on that
Sunday afternoon, a message to Yolanda and Ruth in Miami. You
will receive confirmation of this in a few days. You must know that
your communications must be in great force and harmony with
. that group. For you are a part of the salt of the Earth, so to :,;peak,
at this very particular time. And if the salt has lost its savor where-
with shall it be salted again!
You are all indeed, again the holders of the Earth planet on its
axis at this particular time. You cannot understand this can you?
31
When I tell you that a group here, and a group there can hold the
Earth on its axis steadily, that it shall not wobble nor go out of its
regular path, you cannot understand how this can be. But there are
certain things which are greatly to be understood by you as the
future windows of heaven shall be opened to you.
The transmission is becoming a little difficult at this particu-
lar time so we will pause for a moment. I will not transmit further,
but bless you and hope that you have not been too much disappoint-
ed this night because we have not been able to take you up. But
you will not have long to wait. We will notify you through this
channel and the one in Miami, and we will also give you verification
by other sources, that you shall have no fear whatsoever that it
shall be in error. We will let you know the exact time and place
where you shall meet and be taken with us. ·
You will be invited by me into my private craft and go imme-
diately to the Council of the Planetary Logil. who are now in ses-
sion directing this operation. They are much concerned and are
beaming also their power to all channels concerned and all groups
concerned that this shall not fail. If this should f.ail, my friends, you
and we are in a "pickle" as you speak. But it will NOT fail! We
know that it will not fail. We are depending upon you now and
forever. You will not fail us, we will not fail you.
I have talked to you longer than I usually do; but I wanted you
to understand thoroughly the situation as it now is in the etheric.
I leave you with peace and blessings. I bless especially the channels,
the Triumverate and hold them constantly in my thoughts. Al-
though I am not able to hold them in the spiritual realm as your
great Master Jesus does, I hold you in thought and power that all
may be well and all may be brought together in great glory and
power. This is TUKARI bidding you all good night.
* * * * * *
CONTINUE STEADFAST IN THE LIGHT
JESUS
THIS IS JESUS OF NAZARETH COMING TO YOU:
I shall come no more as ESU to you; not because I am not that
one, but because all things must be unified both in the Spirit of the
Christ Consciousness and God the Father. All must be unified upon
the Earth plane. Therefore you must know that I AM JESUS, the
One who walked among you, I say "among you" for some of you
were with me in that long ago period when I instructed my disciples
of old.
It is somewhat difficult for me to talk to you tonight, because
I myself have overcome. I have witnessed again the drops of blood
which were given to me in the Garden of Gethsemane; and I am
looking down upon a planet in the throws of chaos, fastened as it
were with chains of darkness. But I pray thee, my beloved ones,
32
that THOU SHALT CONTINUE STEADFAST IN THE LIGHT AND
THOU SHALT ALSO CONTINUE TO PROJECT THE LIGHT AS
THOU HAS1T DONE THIS NIGHT. Not only to thy fellowman but
also to all of the Earthbound creatures who are groveling in their
filth, in their vituperations and lack of understanding of what they
are doing and why they are doing it.
My friends, love them! Love all of them as I love them; and as
I have loved them all the years throughout eternity. I beseech thee
now that THOU SHALT PROJECT THY POWER AND THY LOVE
TO ALL WHO MUST BE BROUGHT INTO THIS GREAT MANI-
FESTATION OF DELIVERANCE. I have worked very hard with
this. Know ye that it is not an easy task. Know that I have spent
many hours in meditation and prayer to the Reavely Father - not
that He would let this cup pass, but that it would be filled, and that
thy cup would be filled and overflowing. We have prepared a table
before thee in the presence of thine enemies. Thy cup indeed has
run over. Is it not running over now?
We fill thee with the wine of gladness. We fill thee now and
thy cup with the wine of understanding, with the wine of love. Thou
shalt drink freely of all we have given to thee; and thou shalt know
that thou hast been with us and the shadow of the Almighty has
been over thee. The light.of understanding has been projected into
thy midst. Oh, my beloved disciples, how can I project unto thee
an expression of the love that I have for thee! How canst thou pr6-
ject unto me and to the Father above an expression of the love that
thou hast for us? Do not try, for I know thy heart. I look into each
projected love - not only to us but to all of your fellowmen.
and every heart that is here assembled and know that thou hast
Continue in that way, and soon thou shalt be purged of all
uncleanness. Soon thy Earth will be purged of all of its dross, and
thou shalt be glorified. The Father shall be glorified and I shali be
glorified. Glory be unto the Father who giveth all things. Thy love
shall be projected unto all men everywhere. Not only upon the
earthplane; but all the heavens rejoice this night that thou hast
been brought together, that thou hast love us and we have loved
thee. All is one, all is whole.
Know that there are certain functions which all of you must
perform. Judas performed a function. Think not hard of him al-
though thou hast in the past. It was a function not given to him
directly by Spirit, but by his inner consciousness. The functions
that some of you have fulfilled in times past have been given to
you not directly by the Holy Spirit, but by the spirit of the, let us
say, the universal cosmos which is a manifestation of all things in
the etheric. All things work together for good to those who love
the Christ and the Father.
Evil, as you have understood it, is only the lack of light and
understanding. Think not of evil as a force which can overcome
anything, for evil can overcome nothing. Only light can overcome.
Evil is only a manifestation of negative forces which can be over-
33
come, and WILL be overcome by light. All the forces of evil on your
planet, in a very short time, will be overcome by the light of the
Christ which is manifested through me as the Ruler and Com-
mander-in-Chief of all things upon your planet through God the
Father who gives all power, not only to me, but to you as well ::ts all
peoples upon the earth plane.
I, JIDSUS the CHRIST, bless you. I give you peace and glory.
Thou shalt see the glory of thy works as thou hast given them
unto the Father, as thy will has been submitted to Him. We know
that thou hast submitted thy will to the Father's Will, else thou
couldst not receive unto thyself these messages of light. Know
that they are going into all the world; and even as they go on the
printed page they perform their function, even as they are perform-
ing it here in the spoken.word as thou art receiving it.
Now, I bless thee and leave thee in peace. Thy Teacher must
come again to give a final word of instruction. I, JESUS OF
NAZARETH, formerly unto you, IDSU, bless you. May the grace,
the glory of the Creator and Father of light abide with you now and
evermore. Amen.
* * * * * *
SOON YOU WILL EACH BE CHANNELS UNTO YOURSELVES
RAMA
This is RAMA, closing this meeting for those who have come.
There are others also who have come. They are standing by with
great light shining from their eyes; some with tears running down
their cheeks as they have witnessed this night one of the greatest
manifestations of love and power that has been projected into the
etheric realms in many a day.
I thank JESUS,, and I thank my Heavenly Father that I have
been permitted to act as Teacher and Sponsor of this dedicated
group of souls who have submitted their will to the Father. I did
not know when I came to you that this would be brought about so
rapidly. I thank the Father again that He has permitted me this
opportunity to project to you the little amount of knowledge which
I have been able to bring you from time to time.
I will give you, through every means that is at my disposal,
through this channel, through other channels, instructions of
those things you are to understand and know . As you project
from the chakras in your bodies you will be able to understand
more of the messages that will be beamed to you DIRECTLY. Soon
you will not have to depend upon a channel for those things which
you will receive.
I have let come those who desired to speak to you and I am
happy that I could do this for you. I will go now, but will see you
again soon. I am looking forward to this. You are looking forward
to it, why shouldn't I! I bless you and hold up your hands and em-
brace you as JESUS has done. I bid you all good night. God be with
you and go in peace, my beloved. Amen.
Channel
Zelrun Karsleigh
34
September 10, 1961
Montecito, California
FEAR HAS NO REALITY WITHIN THE SUBSTANCE
THAT IS LIGHT
Be still and know that I am God within the midst of warring
elements
Be serene within thyselves and know that Peace is thine.
LORD JESUS overshadowing:
Be joyous within, 0 little ones of Earth, for the time is dawn-
ing when all things shall be made clear unto thee. Be not afraid,
for only fear itself remains to be feared; and this also is but a sha-
dow which has no reality within the substance that is Light.
Be not afraid, but walk ever steadfastly onward into the Light
-the greater Light which dawns for all men who aspire toward My
Father's Kingdom. His Kingdom is a Kingdom of light, of beauty,
of joy and shall endure past the ugliness of man's creations which
shall fade away as nothing, for indeed they are naught but the
shadows and the Sun of reality shall dawn.
Ye, who are my little ones of love, gather close again to me
for I have said that I would come again to thee and be with thee;
and I say not in vain. Rejoice thou in my Love which surroundeth
thee as a mantle of Light and ye shall be upheld against all manner
of disasters and sustained in my Light which is from my Father's
Kingdom.
All things which are of beauty, of light, of love, of truth, .shall
endure unto the New Age of Light. And ye who are my children of
Light shall walk forth with me into the greater dawn and ye shall
rejoice and know me as of old.
0, my Father, bless these who art thy little ones of Love. Sur-
round them with Thy protection; sustain them in Thy Light, for
these art Thine own.
September 13, 1961
Altadena, California
Channel
Marianne Francis
BRIGHT ARE THE TOMORROWS AS POPPY FIELDS
Be about your Father's business before it is too late. Do for
your fellowman what is to be done and said, so that you won't
regret not having done or said. Be making your bed of tomorrow.
Stand in the place of hallowed ground.
TWICE HAVE THE TRAVELEJRS CAPSIZEJD THE BOAT!
Secure the way! Nothing deters the spirit from mastery. Be in
tune to receive instructions of GIANT NATURE. BE WELCOM-
ING YOUR NEJW HIOST, JEJSUS. THE WELCOMING COMMIT-
TEE BOARDS THE SHIP BEJFORE CHRIS,TMAS ...
35
You and your children will ascend by a spiral motion of a very
special sort. IT MUST BE BEFORE NOVEMBER. There will be
calamity of major nature: earthquakes and floods over the West
Coast.
Bright are the tomorrows as poppyfields; for the skies will
show the seasons of greater days, tomorrow and tomorrow . . .
Live to the hour we meet and work well; and think to establish a
frontier within thy self.
Listen to the hasty attempts to· undo the wrong in nations.
Listen to the Lord put down the government of nations and quell
the rising fire. Listen to the hate subside as fear becomes master
over hate. Uprising of rapid nature are put on the earth in many
special places ... Begin to beat the tattoo ... Begin to quench the
fire. Begin to appear before the Lord, for the Lord's Supper will
persist. Many are coming in the name of the Lord of Hosts!
Spread your clean linen before the fire. Be WELCOMING THE
LORD OF HOSTS. Think not of self, but of HIM. Strengthen the
way of the Lord. Many are coming to understand. Remember the
Sabbath ta keep it holy.
SCHOOL OF THOUGHT
September 15, 1961
Altadena, California
Channel
Hope Troxell
• • • • • •
TERMS OF THE CONTRACT
Barren fields; heavy losses in foods and cattle; nothing g1·0ws;
Tomorrow's crop of blessed children tormented by mutation and
such. Nursing mothers dry or poisoned milk ...
(I insert here a reminder of the parallel they are making : for
President Kennedy had reminded us of the terms of the contract
in Berlin. It seems he has forgotten that God made terms of a con-
tract too ... which also would be fulfilled if we did not obey HIS
LAWS. References to this bigger contract are found in our Bible
from Daniel.)
Bereft of God, man has developed a cancer, wholly out of con-
trol now, and too big to surrender. Come up the Way of Christ's
footsteps! Learn that the Way is always stoney, but clearly an UP-
WARD and S,TRAIGHT WAY to the HIGHIDST WORK, not linger-
ing at syllables, and so pretending . . . "some day" you wilJ come
to the pure and perfect. Behold! the God-Head works perfectly for
every fellow plant, animal, or insect. No man can abuse his sta-
tion in the sight of Christ and forearm himself in defense of him-
self!
ONLY WHEN MAN POURS OUT UPON THIS CREATION
THE LOVE OF THE POWERS FROM ON HIGH WILL HE LEARN
TO WORK WITH, and not to the detriment of ... but for con-
stancy. Love of power shall be heard on the Earth and claim of
mankind judged; but lastly shall the ONLY POWER survive
36
that Power which rules the world of men, and armies, and plants
and rocks!
He that survives shall show forth a NEW FORM, impure as
yet, but leading toward a brillant double duty. Let that form sug-
gest manhood! Let it be truly beautiful in power and love, and
have as well, the softness of Motherhood and control of the Higher
Divine Outlook. Thus Man-Woman live, enduring in comfort, living
the Cosmic Laws, steadying the Earth strains with music of higher
feeling, and practicing in the Cosmic Theatre, as drafted for you
by the Masters who will serve and come to stand upon the Earth!
Such Beacon Light Servers will follow with freedom the new
turn of events. Masters of the soil cannot climb upo'n the new
Earth, such as Atlantis or Lemuria! But keeping the High Goal
these shall serve still Higher Principles, and teach and serve until
such time as Man-Woman can come to produce AG.MN. Agonies
shall have ceased and teachings of a still Higher Race shall begin
to serve.
BE NOT BOTHERED BY THE ADROIT ONES WHO BJ.JAME
AND BLASPHEME, and destroy on the planet Earth. TRUST ...
Night shall and MUS,T' turn into day in so short an hour! PITCH
YOUR TENTS AND WAIT! Let no stream of doubt enter in. The
capitols of the world are shaken.
Soon new earthquakes set in motion the dreadful planet tur-
moil ... Be ever watchful and alert. HIS NAME IS FOREMOST IN
THE REAVENS. The dreadful power will shake the framework
of the Earth ... It rocks, it reels. Helpless are the Servants of the
Most High without Him! Be in peace, KNOWING THE SAVIOR
COMES, AND IS INDEED AT HAND.
Ever ready are we to strike, if such is called. WONDIDRFUL JiS
HIS NAME! We work always as the Elect's Servants to the Most
High. Speak to the Father! He will warn you. Establish LOVE
within. ONLY SO WILL HATE BE OVERCOME.
The dreadful moment has not yet arrived. Be peaceful. PRAY.
No harm is to befall those who serve Him. IN ANOTHlIDR HOUR
DO WE CALL FORTH THE ELECT: THE CHILDREIN WHO PER-
SIST IN THE FATHER'S TRUTH, WHO WORK WTTH IT. THESE
ROCKS shall stand!
JffiSUS IS CALLING HIS SHEEP FOR THE LAST TliME. The
hour passes swiftly, and the sign on the forehead shall demonstrate
the love of the Father and the Son. And so SHALL THEY BE BORN
SKYWARD IN YE1
T ANOTHER CLEARLY TICKING MOMENT OF
HIS HOUR ON THE EARTH ... BE NOT AFRAID!
LOVE YOUR FIDLLOW MAN, EVEN THOUGH IN ERROR HE
MAY STAND! Your truth is cherished as you declare. His Ancient
Laws and LIVE them in your Center of Being. None are so brave
as they who follow the CHRIST footsteps. The Master is near. Be
unto Him as you expect Him to be unto you. Love is a power of
perfection which suffices in PROTECTION. STAND SO YID ARffi
SHiffiLDED BY THE LlGHT OF INNER PEACE. NO OTHER SUF-
FICES.
37
Meet the LORD in the air before Christmas this year. And may
you be brought forth to declare the truth; to do no evil; to adjust
to the coming peace. For man will bow down to his Creator!
Bless them who so move with Lord Jesus. Be in tune to re-
ceive great wisdom and love, and the needs of mankind. Together
we serve, will KEIDP serving; for the Father's feet are close, and we
who stay ready are trusted by the Savior to KEIDP THE PEACE!
Do not loiter! Man is steadily advancing to his day ... why will
he not learn?
Earth shocks are strange and mean and cannot emerge . . .
So strange, that a shifting of the poles will be shown. Let the ex-
pressions of this be leveled at one of two nations which has gather-
ed the harvest of antics for spoils; have surrendered to the devil,
which was not counted upon, but so it is! Suppose man went right
on with the dreadful chaos? What would ensue? Complete demo-
lition of the planet!
(This transmission came about the time that the U.S. set o.ff
underground blasts in Nevada as well as those many set off by the
S,oviets.)
EARTH SHOOK WAVIDS TAKE THEIR TOLL BETWEEN
OCTOBER AND CHIRISTM.A:S ! There will be fewer distress signals
from nations, but more and greater calamites of nature's force.
Results of fallout are extensive and pollution intolerable by the
New Year. But man can count on Jesus to uphold the strong Way!
Pressures inward on the Earth have a rolling effect. Get ready
for a hasty return of peoples from all over!
September 13, 1961
Montecito, California
Channel
Hope Troxell
TELEPORTATION AND ENERGY FIELDS
Direct Transmission:
Transportation of energy or energy fields having relation to
teleportation of mass objects is about to take place. This bears
reference to your increased frequency vibrations and the raising
of your consciousness to the point whereby these things may take
place.
We are attempting to relate to you this evening the mechanics
whereby certain energy fields may be raised in frequency and
transposed or teleported (as you would term it) to other places
upon your planet. This is known to our peoples and will be a fea-
ture of your New Age when this dawns in its fulness.
The thought of frequency bands is not a new one to you gath-
ered here tonight; but the mechanics whereby these things are
accomplished have remained much of a mystery to your minds.
We will endeavor to further elucidate insofar as is possible with
your limited knowledge of the electronic frequencies which merge
into the fourth dimensional state.
38
As your bodies become light enfilled, and as the sluggish ~ibra­
tory rate of your planet becomes raised, due to the cleansing now
taking place and the acceleration into space, the transposing of so-
called physical third dimensional matter will result. 'Dhe frequencies
of light are high ones compared to those of the dense molecular
rate of the atoms of the physical body. As you attune with light fre-
quencies, as you know, the atomic structure of your bodies begins
to vibrate at an increased rate and the actual density of the atomic
structure becomes altered in frequency.
It is perfectly possible for any one of you, given the correct
knowledge and ability, to hold certain thoughts within the mind,
to pass through these walls or doors which you think of as physical
and impenetrable. Think upon this. Realize in your minds that the
reasons for the stepping up of your frequency vibrations have to do
with other things than the mere beautifying of your spiritual
selves. There are actual results to be achievd by these practices
making life on your planet much simpler to conduct. -
As these structural changes take place in your third dimen-
sional bodies and these raise their vibratory rate to the fourth
dimensional state, you will at times appear to be almost as shadows,
or objects may be perceived through your bodies.
We turn now to the thought of the nuclear experimentation
which is taking place. This again is altering the atomic structure
of your universe though this may not yet have been apparent to
your so-called Earth physicists and scientists. There will soon be
a rapid change in molecular structures of all kinds of third dimen-
sional objects. You must acustom yourselves to the thought of such
changes taking place before your eyes in order that you be not
shocked or startled at such manifestations. Therefore we give you
this discourse tonight.
We are transmitting from a great distance upon this occasion;
and are a band of technicians working with the one known to you
as ORLON. We speak to you as a group, not naming any one of
ourselves as the spokesman; for we wish our minds to reach you as
a group thought. It will not be too much longer, our brothers, who
are interested in the scientific concepts, before you will bend your
minds to new endeavors of science, the True Science of atomic
structures, of frequency vibration and of light itself
This is a preliminary discourse given to you in order that you
may be better prepared when we meet with you in the distant
future. We discontinue our discourse and sign ourselves in the
spirit of truth and of true science. We bid you goodnight, our
brothers, our sisters of Earth.
TUKARI
Ships will land. Yes, exacuation procedures are planned; but
at this period only from any widespread disaster area caused as a
result of nuclear experimentation.
Tukari transmits to you in order to complete triangle trans-
mission over your United States. Now contacting with other units
at other points of the triangle.
Cataclysmic conditions have already commenced. We do not
need to tell you where. You will watch your news for further dis-
asters of apparent natural nature taking place. Ships will land,
meeting will be arranged in order to further acquaint unit leaders
with final preparations for your planetary cleansing:
Tukari in command of Space ship X-712. Neutralizing of nega-
tivity patterns being carried out at this time. We sign off and trans-
mit again before too long.
Channel
Marianne Francis
Received
May 11 ,1961
SECTOR XERXES TRANSMITTING FROM BEYOND THE
GALAXY
Conditions environmental and otherwise upon your planet
regarding mineral, plant and animal life are rapidly being affected
and dessicated in cellular structure from harmful radiation con-
tent in your atmosphere:
We of this sector acquaint you with the deterioration structural
changes taking place in your midst, not to cause confusion or panic
in your minds but that you may take remedive, (we do not know
if this word is correct) but we mean remedive measures, meaning
measures to counteract or to remedy the deteriorating condition.
We of this sector are, in a sense, planetary Guardians or as-
suming the duties of planetary Guardians at this time owing to
certain Confederation commands issued by the Chronomoniters
monitering your upper atmosphere.
Work must speedily be commenced to inagregate - to inaug-
urate (we ask your condolence in that our command of your langu-
age is not perfected) - inaugurate measures and information nec-
essary to your well-being. Command states, Chronomonitors moni-
toring report, we or Section Xerxes ACT. Should the Chronomoni-
tors be so impowered to also act upon data received and recorded,
you will be aware of phenomena previously unknown in your skies.
Content of radiation still approaching Zero hour - our
thought not clear; we express differently - content of radiation
rapidly approaching saturation point within cellular and bone
structure. Consquent damage apparent now, not negligible. Ap-
parent within one year far from negligible.
We of this sector are communicating through this ch&.nnel
trained by others of our brothers for many purposes of interplane-
tary significance, soon about to manifest and assume correct im-
portance in your world scene.
We are also your brothers in Light. In asking your indulgences
for our imperfections of transmission we acquaint you with fur-
ther knowledge.
Shortly there will be upon your planet a new outbreak of a
particularly virulent form of fever. This is caused by the breaking
40
down of the cellular structure and the consequent overloading of
the body with toxic or dead matter. In attempting to clear the
channels of the body, high fever will manifest and your peoples will
be, in many cases, emaciated, as the toxic matter accumulating
so fast will defy the efforts of the recuperative powers of the body
to assist in regeneration.
You, our brothers, our channels of Earth service, must guard
yourselves at all times against these epidemics. Your most effica-
cious means by so doing is to drink compiously of your citric 1.cids,
fruits. These epidemics will strike those already most filled with
toxins from your unnatural forms of civlized, so-called, living.
We, your brothers of this sector Xerxes, will be communicat-
ing upon further occasions, for purposes not yet revealed to you.
We, also in the Light of the Radiant One, give you farewell of your
present time consciousness.
Sicale 2 recording
Discontinue . Sector Xerxes transmitting.
MF: IMPRESSION:
Channel
Marianne Francis
Received
2 Aug. 61
Montecito
The Light essence is all of creation. (We are waiting for them
to make a contact from their side) .
Clydette Allen: The man that Marianne is waiting to contact
is, in the picture I receive, very auburn-haired and full beard, very
tall, bright blue eyes, rather fair skin, whUe robe and sort of a
tapestry thrown over the left shoulder. He seems very powerful
and is carrying with him a huge ray of Light, mostly white a,,1d in
the outer edges, a bright blue.
MF channelling:
CLYTRON
Clytron speaks of Light. Know ye that Light is the essence of
au that ye are and all that ye ever shall be. Its inflowing and out-
flowing is the pulse of the Universes of one Creator. All beings re-
spond to its subtle interweaving and upon the degree of its inten-
sity present is the consciousness, the intelligence, the wisdom, the
beauty and the love of sentient life. Light flows like the ever-
changing hues of the rainbow with many facets of expression pene-
trating the denser bodies of matter and infilling them with the vital
forces of immortality. Know ye that as ye become so attuned with
that essence, ye also become immortal. Ye also become as the
gods and the goddesses of older legends and shall ascend to the
4i
places of the gods and goddesses, not only in consciousness but in
being, taking with you the ascended atoms of these, your physical
bodies of flesh. Know ye who are mortal that ye put upon your-
selves immortality that ye don .it as a robe, a mantle of Light,
made manifest to the eyes of all men.
Know these things for they are truth and upon them and
your acceptance of them depend your lives in the fullest and truest
sense of that word: For what is life if it be not immortal. What is
life if it be not a thing of beauty, of wisdom, of love and of truth?
Children of Earth, know ye that I have come both in con-
sciousness and in being that I might speak with ye upon this night.
From far realms have I come travelling in a mantle of Light for
the Universe is my home and the far off leagues of Space arc my
vaulting places of travel. Into the shadowed world which is the
Earth planet have I brought my consciousness, seeking to perceive
that which is Light through its many shadows. And Light I have
found in the hearts and the minds of many who awaken now to
their divine heritage of immortality.
Beyond Earth lie many worlds in Space and those which lie
beyond the planes of the physical are many heavens of grace, of
beauty, of wonder. Onward, ever onward beckons the ever-ascend-
ing spiral of Light thrilling each soul with new endeavor to con-
quer the worlds beyond the known until all ascend to the throne
of the Creator and the splendor and majesty of His inner worlds.
For a purpose came I here tonight to be with us as it was de-
signed that I speak so in this manner to ye. Not all of his days
may Man be troubled with thoughts of practical concern, of hap-
penings of dire nature but that he must take a little time where-
with to ponder the beauties and the wonders and mysteries o.f his
own creation and the worlds which lie beyond his scan. These
worlds that beckon, these atoms spinning in the midnight blue of
Space, beckoning ever onward, out to the furthest reaches of the
Universe, out to the Galaxies and beyond into the nebulas, into
the star studded night of Space. Consciousness must reach out-
ward, ever outward, beyond, ever beyond that which it knows that
ye may grow, children of the Earth planet.
I, who come from another system, come that ye may perceive
a vision of beauty, a mystery of Space. I come to weave words that
might intoxicate your hearts and your souls with that Divine cur-
iosity which raises Man from that which he is to that which he may
be and will be and SHALL be.
If I have a name say that my name was Clytron, for it has a
meaning. If I would have a name in your pattern, then let this be
my name. I am not unknown upon your planet nor am I unknown
to this one who is my channel, for our minds have met before for a
purpose and shall do so again in the interweavings of the threads
of life.
Fill your minds with the perfume of far-off places and dream a
little while and muse, that ye might be refreshed of the many con-
42
cerns of practical nature that bear heavily upon your consciences:
For too soon will press upon you the harsh realities of this heavi-
ness of a planet due soon to be lightened and, in your sleep, per-
chance ye too, shall wander with me into the avenues of stars.
Fare thee well, then, my gallant souls. We meet again upon
another night of starlit splendors.
MF: Direct:
Channel
Marianne Francis
Received
13 Sept. 61
Montecito .-
Transportation of energy or energy fields having relation to
teleportation of mass objects is about to take place. This bears re-
ference to your increased frequency vibrations and the raising of
your consciousness to the point whereby these things may take
place.
We are attempting to relate to you this evening the mechanics
whereby certain energy fields may be raised in frequency and
transposed or teleported (as you would term it) to other places
upon your planet. This is known to our peoples and will be a fea-
ture of your New Age when this dawns in its fulness. ·
The thought of frequency bands is not a new one to you gath-
ered here tonight but the mechanics whereby these things arP- ac-
complished have remained much of a mystery to your minds. We
will endeavor to further elucidate in-so-far as is possible with your
limited knowledge of the electronic frequencies which merge into
the fourth-dimensional state.
As your bodies become more Light-enfilled and as the sluggish
vibratory rate of your planet becomes raised, due to a cleansing
now taking place and accelerating in pace, the transposing of so-
called physical third-dimensional matter will take place as a result.
The frequencies of Light are high frequencies compared to those
of the dense molecular rate of the atoms of the physical body. But
as you attune with Light frequencies, the atomic structure of your
bodies begins to vibrate at an increased rate and the a_
ctual density
of the atomic structure becomes altered in frequency.
It is perfectly possible for any one of you, given the correct
knowledge and the ability to hold certain thought within the !Hind,
to pass through these walls or doors which you think of as physical
and impenetrable. Think upon this, those of you who are here to-
night. Realise in your minds that the reasons for the stepping up of
your frequency vibrations have to do with other things than the
mere beautifying of your spiritual selves. There are actual (you
would term them) practical results to be achieved by these prac-
tices making life upon your planet much simpler to conduct.
43
Structural changes are taking place in the atomic structure
of your third-dimensional bodies, or vehicles of expression, and as
these raise their vibratory rate to the 4th-dimensional state, you
will at times appear to be almost as shadows or for objects to be
perceived through your bodies. ·
We turn now to the thought of the nuclear experimentation
which is taking place. This again is altering the atomic structure
of your Universe though this may not yet have been rupparent to
your so-called Earth-physicists and scientists. There will soon be
a rapid change in molecular structures of all kinds of 3rd-dim.en-
sional objects and you must accustom yourselves to the thought of
such changes taking place before your eyes in order that you do not
be shocked or startled at such manifestations. So we give you
this discourse tonight.
We are transmitting from a great distance upon this occasion
and are a band of technicians working with the one known to you
as Orlon. We speak to you this night as a group not naming any
one of ourselves as the spokesman for we wish our minds to reach
you as a group thought. It will not be too much longer, our broth..,
ers who are interested in the scientific concepts, before you will
bend your minds to new endeavors of S'cience, the true Science of
atomic structures, of frequency vibration and of Light itself.
This is a preliminary discourse given to you in order that you
may be better prepared when we meet with you in the not distant
future.
We discontinue our discourse and sign ourselves in the spirit
of Truth and of true Science.
We bid you goodnight, our brothers, our sisters, of Earth.
Tukari channelling
Channel
Marianne Francis
Ships will land. Yes, evacuation procedures are planned but at
this period only from any wide-spread disaster area caused as a re-
sult of nuclear experimentation.
Tukari transmits to you in order to complete triangle trans-
mission over your United States. Now contacting with other 1mits
at other points of the triangle.
Cataclysmic conditions have already commenced. We do not
need to tell you where. You will watch your news for further such
disasters of apparent natural nature taking place. Ships will land,
meeting will be arranged in order to further acquaint unit leaders
with final preparations for your planetary cleansing.
Tukari in command of Spaceship X-712.
Neutralising of negativity patterns being carried out at this
time.
We sign off and transmit again before too long.
Discontinue.
44
MF IN ALEUTI CONSCIOUSNESS:
Received
Nov. 19, 1961
Time is naught, for, lo, the long ages of time pass by like a
fading picture before the eyes of men.
Time is naught, for all things pass and fade away into noth-
ingness upon the planet called Earth. Yet those things which 'lre of
Light essence endure in a dimension which is not of Earth; endure
forever in a reality which is crystaline perfection. Purity of soul,
truth, wisdom, beauty and the love which endures from Age to
Age-these things are timeless, these things endure and are the
rocks upon which Man may step. For a molten river of fiery tor-
ments flows between those rocks and the Earth planet has been a
place of torture and of agony for the children of Light who have
walked through many ages, through many lives seeking to r:ierve
the Lords of Light.
I, Aleuti, priestess of Light, who am myself timeless, return
in consciousness and am one with my present embodiment, am one
again upon the Earth-planet for the ushering in of the Age of Light
into the new dimension and the new consciousness which is the
Christ consciousness, or the Light essence from which all beings
are created.
Wherefore shall Man walk if he walketh not in Light?
Wherefore shall Man talk if he speak not words of Love?
Wherefore shall Man's actions lead if they lead him not to Joy?
Ye who are the children of the coming Age may not bicker
among themselves, for if thou perceivest not the Light, then who
will-the children of darkness? Have they not already destroyed?
Have they not already aligned themselves with the forces of des-
truction? Only the children of Light may walk in Light, may talk
of Love and may live in Joy. If the shadowed ones o'er shadow
thee, then truly the planet is lost.
I, Aleuti, speak of an Age of Light, of worlds of Light, of lives
beyond lives, of time beyond all eternity where Time is nm: and
endureth only those things which are reality. Know ye, 0 children
who aspire to the Light, that if ye live not in that which is reality,
then ye also shall perish in that which is of shadow, having no sub-·
stance, bearing no fruit.
Consider well, children of the Earth-planet, the choice ye
make, whether it be Light or shadow, reality or death; for thine
alone is the choice and no man maketh thy choice for thee. Thou
alone decide.
(Chant with ancient language then given).
I speak in symbols. Ye that have understanding, hear my
words and know their meaning.
There cometh in the skies a great flock of white birds th1t fill
all the sky as if with snow. These come from the land and the
islands of the blest rise again in all their glory and the children of
45
these isles return in Joy and in Love. There cometh upon the West
pestilence and famine and perish those who are the children of the
shadow-world, for they have not substance and cannot sustain
themselves against the coming of the white birds.
There cometh also to the West a man both wise and strong
who will be as a leader for many who take sanctuary against the
time of the upheavals. This man is fair, he walks the Earth as a
god of old. Grace is in hs stature and Light upon his countenance.
This man cometh soon.
There cometh upon the East a dark-maned one who rideth
the air like Pegasus. When he stands astride the city of the two
towers, then shall the end be nigh and the sun darken and again
the temple be split in twain.
Between and betwixt the East and the West lie great plains
and these plains have desolation upon their face, yet within, also,
are many places of protection for the children of Light. ·
Rivers flow in new courses, hills become valleys and valleys
become inland seas. The mighty thunder of the oceans shall be
heard by people who live far from the shore.
Yet shall the children of Light endure past all these things
unto the coming of the Age called The Golden.
Green palms wave where now the ocean flows, the sands are
golden and the flowers bloom in profusion where now swim the
fish of the deep.
Things change places: so also do men and women until their
rightful appointing is reached and each is returned unto his own
and all is made whole, new and cleansed and in the sight of the
God of all beings, will this world be made good and called the
blessed, planet of Light.
I, Aleuti, have spoken and am silent. May the gods bear me wit-
ness that I speak truth.
Channel
Marianne Francis
Received
30 Nov. 1961
M'ontecito
MF (Impression): (from High spiritual being).
The Light of transfiguration which overcometh all things 8hall
o'ershadow the Earth. The Light shall pour forth and the shadows
shall flee before the dawn. Children of the Light, awaken to thy
divine heritage. Look up and see the Light which dawneth, for the
time is nigh when the world shall be re-created in Light.
The Brothers:
"We are waiting" they say. "We are waiting for an c,,vent
which shall shatter the world scene as it now is. We are waiting."
Did we not say (for you) to attempt contact at a later hour?
This statement still is valid. Our transmissons must be geared to
46
the most receptive time upon your hemisphere. Do not disregard
that which we say. It is not said in vain or spoken lightly as are
words among your own peoples.
The one who is our channel will understand when we say that
there is little left of reliability, consistency or truth among the vast
majority of your peoples. This is not true of ourselves. Therefore,
we request that that which we say be taken with all due serious-
ness. We do not speak in vain nor lightly. All things which 'we say
have a meaning and a purpose. Words as they are used by your
peoples are tossed as lightly as a child's ball, wantonly, without
meaning, often intended to wound or deceive.
Your peoples must learn of the value of integrity, of truth
and of eternal values put forth in sound whether this be the sound
of the spoken word or the sound of notes of music expressed in
tonal harmonies.
The science of sound is in its infancy upon your planet, but
soon must become realised in its full meaning and purpose in order
that your peoples may, by the use of sound, invoke the creative
energies and not those of destruction. Those of our own who walk
this planet are highly sensitized to sound and can be momentarily
rendered distraught and off balance by the wrong use of tonal
qualities, by the use of the voice in anger, in impatience, in hatred.
not so sensitized or would they be entirely shattered by the ele-
Perhaps it is fortunate for many of your peoples that they are
ment of sound with which they surround themselves, by the des-
tructive nature of that which you term jazz or negroid-type music,
by the screeching cacophonies which pour forth ceaselessly from
your boxes which you term radio communication and television.
Your planet is incased with sounds which are ugly, with
sounds which are destructive to the most spiritual and sensitized
portions of the human soul.
We wait and when the event which we await has taken place,
then will we again communicate upon many things of vital impor-
tance to your well-being.
In the Light of Our Radiant One, we bid you farewell of your
present time-consciousness.
We are the Watchers.
7 Dec. 1961
Montecito, Calif.
It has been said, "Love suffers much and is kind", also, "Ex-
cept that ye have not charity, all these become as sounding brass
or tinkling symbols" if ye have not LOVE: For LOVE & CHARITY
are interchangeable in this, and the ancient usage was LOVE.
"Love suffers much and is kind." How many of your peoples
have a true understanding of the meaning of LOVE·? Not Love in
its much-maligned usage, applied to the war between the sexes
where each seeks to attain the dominant part, but LOVE as
47
known through·out the Universes; LOVE as a POWIDR and a
POTENTIAL undreamt of by many millions of your peoples.
LOVE has within itself the power to accomplish all things. It
is the KEY to the hidden mysteries both of Man's relationship with
his God and his inter-relationship with his brotherhood with him-
self. Thus, it has been truly said that "Love suffers much aud is
kind." For, so greatly is this force of Love misunderstood in your
world, that it causes great suffering, not by virtue of its own being,
but by virtue of its existence on a planet where it is so greatly mis-
understood by the masses of people. The individual who seeks to
express the force of Lov.e in their relationships on any level of inti-
macy, whether this be friendship, blood relationship, or the rela-
tionship of man and woman, draws to themself the misunderstand-
ing of a blinded and hate-flled world. It is far easier for your
peoples to attribute motives of selfish aggrandishment to the indi-
vidual who seeks freely and selflessly to give that force called
LOVE. For only so can they understand at their own level of con-
sciousness.
Yet, we still state: The force of LOVE holds within itself the
secret ·of the Universes, the answer to the Ages. Thus, LOVE suf-
fers much yet is kind. For only in being KIND (this word would
imply forgiveness, continuance of love, understanding, sympR.thy,
empathy) only so can LOVE prevail upon the blind and break
through the barrier of their blindness.
There will come a time when LOVE will not suffer and yet will
be kind. There will come a time, not far distant, when the secret
and the mystery of the POWIDR called LOVE will be more fully
understood upon your planet.
Until such time, those of you who are our emissaries of Light
must continue to suffer and to be kind, to LOVE and to be mis-
understood in so doing. Yet, among yourselves this misunderstand-
ing should not exist, this suffering should not exist. For the emis-
saries of Light must give witness and become that which THEY
teach; give witness to that which they most truly are in soul es-
sence. For the foolishness of Man passeth all understanding, but to
this give no heed, for it has no reality within the Light and should
not leave its mark upon your s'Ouls.
Where Love suffers much and is King, then LOVE must tri-
umph; for no force that we know of throughout the Universes of
God, has a greater potential nor contains within itself the KE'Y
to its own renewal in such manner.
LOVE. may recharge and renew all the vehicles of M::m in
such way that they become filled with the Light-substance which
is immortality.
Man may have the wisdom of the ages within his intellect, yet
if he hath not LOVE, he is NOTHING. When the true meaning and
potential of this power is known upon your planet, then wiU your
peoples be enabled to renew their physical-etheric vehicles and to
48
interchange them with the Light-substance and raise their vibra-
tory rate. When this force is carried into effect in the relationship
between MAN and WOMAN, then your ridiculous, unnecessary
and destructive war of the sexes will vanish with the age of dark-
ness which gave birth to it.
Man and woman are two parts of one whole, are complement-
ary in essence and divided are not only incomplete but are - - -
(there is a word in our language but we do not find one in yours
which expresses our thought; our meaning is that there is some-
thing lacking where the two are divided). Even though the indivi-
dual may be unaware of this, none-the-less, this is a FACT.
On your physical level of matter this may be called a chemical
blending.
On your ehteric level of expression, it may be termed an inter-
change of etheric energies.
On your astral or emotional level of expression, it may be
called an interchange of color.
On your etheric level of expression, it may be etermed an inter-
change of creativity through creative mind.
And on the spiritual level of expression, it would be termed the
god-force or the One Spirit joining in completion: the flame known
from the beginning from aipha to omega.
If Man is foolish enough to think he is self-sufficient unto him-
self, or Woman self-sufficient unto herself, they merely express
their ignorance of this basic principle of Oneness and of the polar-
ity balance contained within this principle.
Suffice it to say that we of other spheres, of other planets of
Light, have a much greater understanding of this power, of this
FORCE called LOVE and a much greater respect for its inter-
working in our lives and the necessity of understanding the Laws
which govern this force: Electro-magnetic upon certain levels,
Spiritual upon others.
When our peoples desire to reunite in wholeness, they ask the
One God, Creator of all beings, to send to them the other part of ·
themselves. Such is the balance and the lack of Karmic debt (as
you term it on your planet) on ours, that very little time elapses
before this prayer is answered and completion and harmony are
found.
That your peoples struggle with such agony to retrieve the lost
part of themselves is, to us, one of the saddest things rubout your
planet.
We suggest that this tape be studied. Certain KEYS which
are necessary to your further ongoing in Light are to be given
concerning this subject at a very early date. If you stumble :upon
them in the meantime, we will be only too delighted. Without these
KEYS the door which you wish to open remains steadfastly closed.
Perhaps something in that which we have said will reveal to you
the hidden meaning.
49
We withdraw our consciousness, joyous in the knowledge that
we were able to come to you in thought upon thls evening.
We who speak with you are beings, male and female, from
the planet, known to you as Venus.
Concerning the nature of Love, look within and bring forth
that which lies within the heart center. Be not afraid of this force
but steadfastly let the flame burn away the dross, and the Light
will be revealed.
The beings known to you as the Lords of Flame from Venus
were our mentors.
Our Love and our Light we leave with you.
Channel: Marianne Francis
Channel
Marianne Francis
* * * * * *
Received 4 Jan. 62
Montecito
COSMIC CHANOE
Alignment with Cosmic events is the order of the day. This
alignment entails the necessary breaking away from all accepted
and conventionalised thought patterns preconceived or partially
misoriented by the masses of Earth's peoples.
Cosmic alignment is taking place at the time of the aligning of
several other planets with planet Earth, thereby bringing in a vast
new field of Cosmic energies and a greater aligning of Cosmic
hierarchies with those of planet Earth. This thereby brings into
focus the correct Light energies transmitted from the more ad-
vanced planets in your Solar system to your own planet and tlfe
life-wave incarnate upon it.
Visualise, if you will, this aligning or alignment as a. vast
focusing of god-like creative energy to bring into correct balance
planet Earth, the erring one of this Solar system. If the energies
period of time, the results can be of inestimable value to those so
so focused are utilised correctly and fully by Light Servers at this
using (them) and to the planet as a whole.
All things in Nature change according to season and to Cosmic
calendar. Thus it is that the great change long prophesied upon
your planet will be initiated and inaugurated in its fullness upon
the time of the coming conjunction of planets, (Feb. 4 & 5) called
by many of your peoples an 'eclipse stellium'. That there ha.3 not
been such an overall pouring out of energies or the great change
upon it to this date is due to the fact that the planetary configura-
tions were not so ordered until the ending of a 25,000 year cycle.
All things in the Universe are orderly and move according to
their predestined seasons. No one event can occur, either in your
own personalised lives or in the life of a planet outside of Cosmic
calender. It is unfortunate that your peoples do not recognise this
an dattune their consciousness and their activities to receive the
50
greatest benefit from the outpouring of various fields of energy.
By this, do not misunderstand us to mean that we are in complete
accord with many of your fatalistc astrologers. This is not the
case. You do have individual free-will as individual free souls. But
the greater events, both in your own individualised lives and the
life of your nations and your planet, move according to seasons
of waxing and waning, of budding forth and of withdrawal from
activity. If you were further advanced as a peoples, you would have
this knowledge as do we of other planets, and would attune t0 re-
ceive the greatest creative energy to manifest the carrying out of
your individualised freewill and those desires which you have with-
in that freewill to manifest.
Cosmic events do not move according to the will of Men upon
any planet but move according to the Creator of all Men and to
the Divine hierarchies which carry out this WILL which is har-
monious, beauteous and loving in all aspects.
You see approaching, the ending of a 25,00'0 year cycle and
the begining of a new cycle of increased Light energies outpour-
ing, not only upon your planet, but upon this Solar system itself.
These Light energies will focus to the greatest degree at the time
of the coming conjunction. They will manifest in two different
ways, many facets but two apparent and opposing (it would Mem)
ways:
(1), One, the greater upliftment and increasing spiritual
awareness of those who have been striving to attune with the Liglll..
(2). Two, the increased degree of cleansing and bringing lo
the surface and dispersal of all dross and weighty matter of nega-
tive manifestation upon your planet.
Thus, it is good that all Light servers gather together in
groups that their Light may shine in various places of the Earth.
For where darkness also is concentrated, there will the Light and
the Light energies cleanse and commence to greatly agitate the
hidden dross in order that it may be dispersed in the time which
lies ahead.
The Light in its many aspects is at all times beneficient. That
its outworkings may appear to the minds of men to be disastrous
and cataclysmic is only due to their incorrect understanding of
Light energies. If attunement with Light has been sought, the in-
dividual concerned may be filled only with joy at the coming of
the One who is known as the Lord of Light and Love, Jesus the
Christ. If attunement with darkened forces has been sought or the
mind clouded with the unrealities of shadowed forms of the Earth
planet, then these things must fall away. All cleansing necessitates
a degree of bringing to the surface of past negative conditions and
of the sweeping away and purification of these. Light cannot build
up·on darkness nor can a world of purity be built upon the filth
and death and despair that lies buried in the etheric vibratory field
51
lying close to the physical Earth. Only as the etheric currents are
stirred into action by the increasing Light energies coming in, will
these great vortices of force swirl away and disperse that which is
not of Light.
Cosmic energies of tremendous magnitude are being directed
at this time upon planet Earth. You, who are the servants of the
Light, must needs intensify your spiritual awareness and practice
of Light attunement that you may more fully play your parts at this
time and in the times which lie ahead, times of tremendous chal-
lenge, of tremendous opportunity for soul growth and soul enlight-
enment and soul joy.
Children of the Light, awake to the Dawn, for the Light come-
th and darkness shall be no more!
We, your brothers, your sisters in Light from many planets.
band together our thoughts and send to you this message of hope
and encouragement. We know of that which many of you have
endured. We KNOW of those times when you have nearly fallen by
the wayside and have cried in despair and darkness and grief and
we say to you that the Light comes and grief and darkness and des-
pair shall vanish as a mist and shall have no reality. But the Light
which is eternal is the Light of the coming Golden Age, the Age of
enlightenment, the Age of Joy for the children of Light upon the
Earth planet who, through many lives, have sought to serve for
this hour which approaches. ··
We rejoice and bid you rejoice with us. We send our greetings
and our Light to many.
We now take ·our leave of you.
THE JOY OF EASTER
An Invisible Teacher Speaks through Channel LOUISE MORSE
of Maryland, U.S.A.
Children of the Light, again do we come together in oneness.
We are with you, drawn by the power of that love which comes
from the very being of you, that eternal self of you - the self of
which you know very little. Would that I could introduce you to
yourself. How little do you know of your eternal identity, that
spirit, the divine image of God, that is you, that which has been so
hidden, so covered with layers. of materiality. It has been a virtual
prisoner taken over by that ego, that astral self of you, the one
which must be put down that the other might live eternally. It you
chose the astral self as your identity there would have to come
death, but you have been given that life forever; so you must move
into that one, live in it, be aware of it, express through it. Everything
that you think and do and believe must come through that spirit
52
self of you to be true fruits - the fruits of the spirit. You do not
have to seek for an ·outside God somewhere or for that you could
call an intangible holy spirit to come and do your bidding. You
carry all there is within the core of you. That seed of divinity has
all the potentials, all the wisdom and love and compassion and good-
ness. I know we have told you these things, but which ear was
listening when we told you? You see, that is the point. You mean
well but you do not always live in the spirit of you, and so, when
you are listening or thinking in the col}.scious mind and the human-
ness of you, it does not stay within you, it does not enter that soul
body that you are building.
Listen with the spiritual ear. See with the spiritual eye. That is
discernment; that is true understanding. It is not listening to and
accepting a creed or doctrine or any man-made belief, but it is
opening your soul to the light of God. And you have had that light
provided from the beginning; it is not outside, somewhere in anoth-
er realm. Your future home may be in another realm, but you have
all that God has for you deep within that holy temple which you
call your "self". But you have been living in the wrong self. If there
are three of you, you must begin to separate, to discern, to recog-
nize in which one you are moving and having your being. You may
move completely in the physical and human consciousness or you
may move in the astral self of you or in the emotional suspension,
or in the passions of mankind.
All the things that are in the beginning good but have become
runaway, like jealousy, greed, resentment, hatred, come from the
immature soul. The soul is in the process of growing and develop-
ing and learning the things of wisdom, and God the Father in His
mercy has provided all these things for you. You do not have to go
even, as the saying goes, to your own back yard, for it is right deep
within the heart of you. In your consciousness you have the under-
standing, the wisdom and the God-Consciousness.
So which part of your mind are you using? For truly your life
depends upon the conscious state in which you are living. You may
carry yourself to any state, to any suspension. You may live in
misery, in illness, in depression, addicted to things of earth. You
may live in suspended states and yet upon earth. Or you may go
into other consciousness areas. Even those that live upon earth
and pass into the next realm not understanding, go into suspension.
That is part of your purgatory state, it is not punishment, but
waiting for understanding. That should be counted a blessing, for
if you did not have it you might lose your identity, or you might go
into lower vibrations without having the mercy of God holding you
at that level until you had greater understanding. So you should
give thanks for the state of purgatory and not have fear of it or
think that it is something evil. It is not. It is a waiting, an "in-
between"; if you get to the very gates of the high consciousness,
53
and you have not opened yourself to understand and to enter into
that consciousness, then are you held at that level till those min-
istering angels may reach you and help to enlighten you farther.
God always provides in his plan that which will lead you into the
state ·of consciousness for you at that time. It is evolutionary. None
are forgotten. But you must learn to climb the ladder of the fre-
quencies. Lift your consciousness, decide what room of it you will
enter, and the vast, great one that has not been opened.
That is a parallel to that which you know in your symbolism
of the great pyramid, of which many of you have been studying,
the great chamber that has not been opened yet in the pyramid
representing the higher consciousness. Well, Beloveds, you have
that great chamber within you in your consciousness and the dnor
has never been opened. You are coming to that. If you ponder upon
it you will begin to see that as you enter into the next octave of
frequencies you will be expanding your consciousness. You sneak
of expanding universes; but the consciousness of you expands from
the tiny dot of light that was begotten of the Father - that minute
particle of light that was you. That consciousness is your life and
has been expanding ever since and ever will be.
You cannot comprehend and do not know the possibilities of
that which you call mind. You know only that which you use, the
very small part of your human brain. And that is as nothing com-
pared to the greatness of the sea of consciousness. It is not so much
a great sea that you enter into, but you yourself contain the sea.
Your consciousness is expanding at a rapid rate. Your vibrations,
your frequencies - all that which puts you upon a certain wave
length - these things are you expanding, even as the orbits of the
planets around the sun would alter the course, would be an expan-
sion of the whole universe. As the universe would expand and
spread out farther and farther, so does your consciousness. You
are just becoming aware of a tiny bit more of the consciousness
that you had all the time. And it is really, if I might say without
offending you, a real laziness that man has not entered into the
greater consciousness long before. He is content to take that small
bit of light and consciousness and sit back and say, "See what I
have done! This is the work of man!" Not only does he forget to
give the Creator the praise and credit, but thinks that he is S':ieing
all, and that that is all. As the flower opens to the sun does lt ask,
"What do I do next? How do I grow in the sunlight? What must I
think at this moment? Which way and which direction shall I
grow? It opens to the sun and IT JS. In like manner does your
soul open to God's light.
It is not a matter of beautiful words; it is a true state of being,
Beloveds. That eternal self of you, that spark of life and light which
is the God-image within you, that is the light that the soul is open-
ing to. And there is where the "daily bread" should come from, not
from the material things and not from that which would satisfy the
54
ego or the desires of the astral, but that which is life-giving. Call it
daily bread, call it the waters of righteousness - any words that
you would use, for there are many. But that soul of you opens to
the divine light which has been with you from the beginning. We
must repeat, for you forget this. Then does your soul have a chance
to grow. You see, your consciousness is there, your life is there.
But you are building an eternal body.
You are a speck of consciousness which has life, individuality
and will. You may dart back and forth as a speck of light if you so
choose. But if you would have the glorious life then must you, as
co-creator, with the will of the Father working through that divine
image within you, build the eternal body to cover that conscious-
ness and light of you. That is what you speak of as the "glorified
body". Yrou now have a pattern; you have a physical body but it
does not last, you have an astral body that does not last, but take
the foundation of what you have and, with this eternal light within
you, let it grow, let it form, and through your mind create that
which will be a covering, a body beautful. Now do you have a tem-
porary body. Do you not see? The Master, Jesus said: ,'This body,
this temple will be destroyed, but in three days will I bring it up".
He believed; he knew that he could, with his divine will, being one
with the Father, that he could reconstruct what you might call the
atomic structure and could change, could build and resurrect that
body and make it a s1
olid, real eternal body. Not something huma'ii
that would pass away.
Now for the scripture that was given to you tonight. That was
for a purpose, to emphasize the fact that it is the life and the
example that was the important thing. Too many churches and
dear ones the world over have concentrated upon that which feeds
their astral desire for sensation, for emotion and for identifying
themselves with someone in self-pity. Now this may seem harsh to
you. Forgive me, dear ones. I want you to understand that the Mas-
ter, Jesus, was giving an example of what he wanted you to do. He
did not want you to spend a lifetime grieving over the fact that he
died. That was not the point. He went through many things in sacri-
fice. But he had to give up the life of the physical to show you what
it was that he came to show you. And he gave up the life of the
astral. He gave up his human and astral desires and will that the
divine would work through him. And you can be one with the Fath-
er just as much as he was one with the Father. He was trying to
tell you that you eould live eternally.
He did not want to be worshipped as God. He was the son of
God, as he came so humbly to express. He gave you the pattern of
walking as one with the Father. He had to die to show you that he
could still live! Not only that he could live, but that you could live.
That was the proof positive. But never was there proof that man
would acept. He merely showed the example that all things that he
did could you do. And he emphasized the life. Take him down frct.m
55
the cross! Let him live! That is the important lesson of the cross.
Do not picture him on the cross all the time and feel sad. It is the
joy that was on the other side. Turn the cross over. See him as he
did overcome the cross and death and the lower regions in which
he went to bring light even into the lowest vibrations. He did pro-
mise to give of himself and that light which he had. And so he did,
Beloveds. So do understand that the important part of that lesson
was the joy and the life that came from it, and for ages has man.:'
kind dwelled upon the sadness. You have misunderstood. The only
sad part was the fact that you did not understand the mission and
the example that he was giving. But that will ever be before you.
Your holy communion was to serve as an example to you. And
you have misused that. The Master did not say, "When you par-
take of the bread and wine be sad, go into a state of depression be-
cause my physical body was crucified and died." He did not want
that. That is a satisfaction of the astral. Man loves to dwell upon
morbid things, gruesome things. There is something innate in the
astral body of man that literally enjoys going over and over and
over the terrible things. Now that is a human pattern. That is not
the life of the spirit. The gospel he did give us was that you be joy-
ful, and that yiou might remember each time that you partake of
the Holy Communion that he showed you the way to eternal life.
Jesus did come to bring joy and to give that eternal life; that is a
joyful thing. And as you recognize the fact that he said: "Eat of my
body, drink of my blood", all right, understand the symbols! Par-
take of this life and higher consciousness that is the annointed one.
Live with Him in it. Take of his life, of the body that he now is, of
that which was transformed, resurrected, the great conscious-
ness, the great love. That which He found and showed you, he
said ever to keep before you ... the memory of this. When you do
partake of the communion remember that He did risk.all to come
and show you the way that you could gain eternal life.
Beloveds, you have life and you could live for a long time if
you never had this faith. But somewhere does another understand-
ing come in to give you eternal life of the spirit. That is a different
thing. That is where the deception does lie, for you can go into the
astral area. You can move into that realm after physical death.
You can live for a long time. You can say to those left upon earth:
"See, I died, yet do I live." And it is so for a long time. But, Beloveds,
the earth and the heavens around the earth will pass away. The
astral plane will pass away. It still would not be the life of the eter-
nal spirit. For this you must have different food. You must reach
out for greater consciousness. You must move into the spirit body
and the life of the spirit if you would live eternally. It is not a
matter .of judgment or punishment; it is a fact of being. You may
live as a human, as a physical in the third dimension. And you may
live in the astral realm as an astral being for a long time - longer
than the physical. But there it ends, unless you have something to
bridge that gap to enter into that which is etherial, beyond the
56
astral, that which will feed that spark of divinity within you that it
might live eternally and not fade out. Through your free will and
your choice may you progress eternally. And that is part of the mis-
sion at the time.
YOU ARE BUILDING LITERALLY AN ETERNAL BODY FOR
YOURSELF. But this must be with wisdom and it must be with
direction. You can at any given moment step into any one of the
three rooms of consciousness that are you. You may say they are
all one. Yes, in a sense they are. But for the point at hand we must
say that they are separate. For you do not know the things of the
infinite at this time. And as you grow and grasp these you are with
the finite mind at the moment and you must take them bit .by bit
and see them in a way that may seem elementary to you, and may
truly be that, but will help you to grasp a small picture of that
which is to give you life.
So in going back to this great understanding of Easter, do not
be so weighted down in sadness during a part of the time. As you
do that you not only misunderstand the meaning that Jesus did
give, but literally are you identifying yourself with him in a way
that would cause him to feel that weight. You see, as you have been
told before, his complete mission will not be fulfilled until each of
you have seen the light and have come into oneness in that great
body of the Christ-consciousness. You are all a part of that, the
cells in the body of the Christ-consciousness. You may speak of
Jesus as the Anointed One and say that he was christed - all right,
in your eoncept tJhat may be the way that you see it at the moment.
But there was this great body that was begotten of the Father, and
Jesus was the first of that which was begotten to attain to that
which was his destiny. As many of you know, there were many
confederations that were colonies upon many planets, all that were
named man, all of that one body of the begotten. There have been
various stages of the evolutionary progress, and Jesus did attain,
long before you, for many reasons; but now your concern is to take
that hand of the Elder Brother that is held out to you and let him
guide you and show you the way.
He does not want you to be weighted down in sorrow. He does
not want you to see nothing but the picture of him upon the cross.
He did do away with that body, that self. He gave it up that he
might have the glorified body. And that he is the one for you to con-
centrate upon. And that life which he did have he is teaching you
to have. He is teaching you that you may be quickened, whether
it be in the days of translation as the harvest comes due for its
reaping or whether you do it at another time. But he is training you
and showing you; from the moment that he was upon earth he has
been showing youi And how many of you did have eyes to see?
True it is that you would come in humility, and that you would
seek forgiveness for that which you did not understand, and which
had not been revealed to you, your memory having been cut off
57
from your past lives of many ages. And you would go in repentance
for this reason. But at the moment you could not bear to have re-
vealed all the past lives that you have had, all of the errors of your
ways, the mistaken judgments. That memory was cut off, merci-
fully, for the time being, but later you will see it in panorama for;m.,
you will have it march before you. But with that cut off, knowing
that you have made many eror!ll of which you are not aware, you do
ask forgiveness and you do go in humility. But you let that mind
which was in Jesus operate through your body and through your
consciousness that you might be identified with his new life.
Did he not tell you that you were new creatures, that you
would be born again, not only in the wheel of life upon earth, birth
and rebirth, but that you would become a new creature in him
because he had found and had attained that which was eternal life?
It is as simple as that. Humanity so little understood that they did
make a god out of the Master, Jesus, when he came in all humility.
It is blasphemous to make something of him that he did not pro-
fess to be. Understand the oneness that he had with the Father, the
attainment and the crowning, and that he was given the rule of
the earth, of this planet; and he did have many flocks to tend. He is
working on many other planets and caring for his own. Many are
the avatars working with their flocks, but he is your avatar, he
taught you - for you were living in those· <'lays, as we have told
you; when he was upon the earth you were there. That is why at
this time you can respond to the things that are taught to the spirit.
Jesus was truly the light of the world. So are you if you let
yourself be. But when it is covered beneath layers of selfishness or
desires or things of the physical and astral, then all is darkness; the
light has disappeared. Great is your light when you let it shine.
But we have to bring you into moments of quiet in the darkness for
you to let it shine. Not that it is the only time, Beloveds, but it is a
time that we do help you to draw apart. You do try it in your many
ways and, of course, you are serving greatly in other parts of your
daily life. But it is not often that you let your light so shine that
all may see. And that is truly you. It is not another's light. It is
your own, as we speak of the spirit of you. Put down the selfish-
ness and greed of the physical and the astral. Let that spirit live
and shine. But it is your will power that will let it be, for you were
given that gift of free will from the begining and no one but your-
self can direct that into the channels that it will go. For that was
the covenant that the Father did make with that Llght which he
did beget. He said, "Let there be light", and there was light. And you
were part of that light, and he sent it into all directons that it
would extend and manifest through all frequencies and dimensions.
That is part of the law, and that which he sent out will re·turn back
unto Him. But you have the control of it.
So there's the importance of your choice and your direction
and your will. You are co-creators; you are mighty in power. But
58
do not use your power lightly, and do not use it for wrong purposes.
Place yourself in alignment with the divine will that you might be
one with the Father. The Father worketh in you and through you
and His light does shine through you. This was the big thing that
Jesus was trying to say to you. For God so loved the world that He
gave His begotten son to show you, to demonstrate to you, to lift
you out of that into which you had mistakenly chosen to go. You
must with will change your direction. You can be advised but you
cannot be forced. It must be your own will, but you must have
understanding before you can see the reason for changing your
direction. That cannot be forced. It cannot be caused by telling you
how wicked you have been, cannot come from getting you to feel
guilt, or to feel sad that your Master did go through something to
show you. That will not do it. You must understand the reason for
life itself, for eternity, and desire it. See that joy and hope and that
glorious side to it that will make you desire to change your direc-
tion that you may go forward into it.
Have you not had enough? Have the life experiences that have
shown you, taught you many things? Yet, but you have stayed in
illness, you have stayed in the sorrows of the world. Jesus did say,
"Come out of the sorrows; follow me into happiness." Constructive
work, yes. Never do you seek something that you might find it
easy or ·that you might find joy for the sake of joy, but that in serv-
ing your God joy wm come. Then will you experience love in its
true sense, even as you look now to that mission of Jesus and that
which he did show you, in his example. He did not want you to
dwell upon all the sadness and the part that was unhappy. He
would have you forget the picttfi'e of him upon the cross. He would
have you see him as he was ascending in his resurrection, saying,
"Come, follow me; I am shoW!ing you the way". This is the Jesus
that you are to follow. You •
have already gone through the tl·avail
and the earth is in the midst of the final travail for this age. And as
the time for the reaping does comes, as every harvest, he is saying,
"Look unto me, I will show you. I will guide you this far; I will
guide you the rest of the way. Believe me, and I will show you eter-
nal life." He is not saying, "Do not belong to this group or that
out my hand and show you the way. For I have found the light; I
church." He is saying, "If you would desire eternal life, let.me hold
would share it with you. I would lead you on into the higher di-
mensions, that you may experience that which is glory and is love
and is eternal life." You do not know the joys for you have not
had it - it is given as a gift, but it is your will. That is the picture
to see; the joy of the overcoming of death. That it does not mean
much to lose the body; you go into the next life.-
And in that do you learn an experience, and then do you move
into the state of incorruptibility where nothing can touch you.
Then can you serve him well, for you will return. Yes, it is true,
that you are going through the evolutionary stages of growtb ana
development of the soul. But remember, the potentials were given
59
you from the begining. You did not have to go into the lower vibra-
tions as you did. Thait was your will, your choice. And you may
choose to go or stay. You have been choosing for a long time to
cling to the earth, to keep to those patterns, to keep to the things
of the flesh because you did not like it. You have been looking
through a glass darkly. Dim was your vision. Now, as you see into
the light, you can see reason for moving forward. The time of sus-
pension upon the earth is past. Greator work are you to do as you
go up the ladder of consciousness. W'hY stay in that small con-
sciousness when you can live eternally in the expanded one?
So understand the joys and the message of the good news of
Easter. It has troubled us in other realms that we have not enabled
more to see and understand the gladness of Easter, the relief, the
thanksgiving that some one else has done that for you. Yes, of
course, it is that you are building your own eternal body. You are
laying your own foundation. You are taking your responsibilities.
But you did have a way-shower. You did not have to find your way
out of the jungle alone. You did not have to descend into the lowest
of vibrations in order that you might test yourself to see if you were
strong enough to come back up the ladder. For you could not have.
Thus it is that he did this step for you. Now may you return to t'he
paradise state which you did will to leave. Then may you go for-
ward in your journey. Then may you reach out into the great cos-
mic unknown to you.
You think that you know life. You know life about as much as
you would as a babe in its small playroom with the toys around it -
at that moment in its awareness does it think it knows life. The
wonders and the glories of life in other realms, in other galaxies
of which you know nothing, real and solid, yet in a much greater
consciousness and higher dimension of which you are not aware -
all these are what you would speak of as the "mysteries of heaven."
They will not be mysteries if you will but open and listen and learn.
For you are entering into those gates. Now do they come into use.
They have not been of much value in the form in which you llave
look at them. But open wide these gates (as you would think of it) .
Go into the next dimension of consciousness, and you are already
travelling there in spite of yourself, for you have been seeking and
you have asked. That is your free will. You are on your way; so
understand it as you go. Try to grasp a part of it and do not strug-
gle so, but open to the light that in giving you life. Meditate. Be
still and know that God is within you and tb.at you are one with
Him. Recognize this; claim it and believe it. Then does it become
power and He does work through you. Accept it as the gift that He
did give.
And know that the joys of Easter are the good news for you,
that death has been overcome, the grave has been overcome, the
earth has been overcome by one who went before you. Give thanks
that this is so. Be grateful for that life whch is yours to have if you
60
do choose. It is not that you would have punishments if you did not
·choose. No, Beloveds, the point is that with your will you may take
that spark of life anywhere that you will in any direction. S,o if you
would have eternal life then you must choose or it will not be so.
For you had bestowed upon you free will, and you would not lose
that identity of the divine self, for that identity will at some great
day create and rule its own world if you do not allow it to disinte-
grate. Your will is all that will keep the motivating force there be-
cause it was so destined under the laws of creation. God did not
want something that he had to force. It is to be direction of your
will. He sustains while you are willing, but you do have the choice
of putting yourself into alignment with that great divine will which
does bring harmony and good to all things.
So keep the joy of Easter in your hearts and never again look
upon the sadness of the cross, for that is behind you. Be grateful,
be humble; but the purpose of going through that was to show you
the other side. He could not have shown you had he just appeared
from the outer realms - as you would say, space - had he ap-
peared in the clouds to you. It would not have meant the same. He
could have said, "Yes, I promise you eternal life." But the reason
of man would argue, "How can you know?" You are in a different
sphere from us. You have not gone through what we have." But in
entering into that dimension in which you were living he did show
every step of the way that he did understand, that he did exper-
ience, he did go through and risk all. But that faith within him
made him know that he could show you, and could come through
it; so step by step he had to die in front of you that you might ac-
cept the risen Lord and see. In every stage he did appear, even in the
astral body, as what you would term, ghost, at first. He appeared in
the physical, he did appear in the ghostly body and said, "Do not
touch me, I have not yet ascended to the Father." He had been in
consciousness in the lower regions releasing those that would
follow him from the prisons and suspension. Then did he again ap-
pear. He showed you every form that he took upon himself. He
showed you every experience, teaching you step by step. Then did
he return in the glorified body only bearing the marks of the cross
while he could show and let one recognize that he was the same.
Then did he even ascend with man observing. What greater proof
could anyone have? And yet did they not believe. But he showed
that going through each step still could he live, and most of all
still would you live. He said, "Tarry a while. Watch and the spirit
will reveal all things." The spirit of truth did come at the pentecost.
In every step of the way did he show, did he give example, telling
them, "This is your path-this is what you are to be." He did
not say, "I am great; I can do more than you." He said, "I am
humbly demonstrating everything that you can do." But man had
another idea: he thought he could do it better. He could not see
that which was put before him. Then came divisions, the many
sects the many churches . . . so few of the Christ-consctousness.
Pity it is for they do mean well. But they have lost it; they have
lost the spirit.
61
Turn away from the morbid. Look to the joy, even in these
days of great change when the cataclysms do come. You are
given ahead of time that spirit of joy. Even did the Christian
martyrs examplfy this long ago. They learned it and no matter
what did happen they went forth in song and joy, for they knew
the key to it. But man has forgotten. Have no fear. Hold that joy
within you; know the direction that you are going; know what you
have chosen, what you have willed. Know whom you follow aud go
forth in courage. Not in the sentimentality, not in the emotional
not in the misunderstandings of the Church, not in the intellectual
crutch of those that turned away from the church. But walk in
confidence and courage, knowing that one went before you to
show you the way. And have faith that he did find the way and
that he did instill in you that joy with his proof that he did over-
come the grave, and that you are to follow in the same. Realize
the love that was in him. Would you do as much? Once you finally
made the grade, what a sigh of relief you would have. Then would
you say, "I go back again that I might help my fellow man." You
would be so glad to be out that you would never want to return ...
that is natural. But as you grow and as you go forward then does
that great love and compassion overwhelm you. Then do you reach
a place where you say, "Gladly I would go back, for man does not
know what he is missing."
So give thanks that one did return. Be not sentimental about
it, be not overly emotional, but have gratitude that the Fath1~r did
provide the Elder Brother to show you the way, and courageously
and confidently follow that way. That was the teaching that came
through all great teachers of earth. All great religions did have the
same teaching. But finally did one do better than just the teaching,
He did demonstrate every step of the way that you might see how
you could follow. Be filled with his love. Be filled with his joy. Do
not let it be a word only. Experience that joy. Creat are the wonders
awaiting you. You are flinging wide the gates. You are in this
harvest of the age. Give thanks and be joyous for great is your
triumph, great is your blessing. And you have willed it so or you
would not be at this point.
So open your eyes that you might see. Open your heart that
you might love all that you pass by; let that love and that light
shine through you, that all will see the Father in you. If you would
have them know God do not hammer, do not force, do not argue.
Be that Godly being, and they will follow, they know not why, for
the spirit does bear witness to the truth. Bless you, Beloveds, :peace
be unto you and joy of Easter fill your souls. Ever be joyful, for you
see beyond that which looks for the moment unhappy, for great
joy awaits you. Even as you go through the holy days know in
your heart that you do know something that others may not
realize and that there is great joy in your soul, for you finally
understand what he did try to accomplish, what he did try so
patiently to show you. Bless you. Easter joy be yours forever.
Selah.
62
Part 2
ANOTHER INVISIBLE TEACHER SPEAKS:
As the Master does stand in your midst, send, direct this great
power to those with heavy hearts, with needs; for it is theirs, but
it is yours to direct. Send it out that you might receive more. Send
it out that you may give to the world that which comes and passes
through you as channels out into the world. The Father does so
manifest. Picture it as a great ray of light going directly into their
being, their consciousness, their body and soul. Do not talk a.bout
it but send it, visiualize it. Think it and send it with power. Be it so.
Let the world be healed. Peace is yours. Receive it and give thanks.
Now dear ones, would there be some question that you would
like to bring into the light? For this does help you to expand your
consciousness, to exercise that which is your thinking ability that
you might bring your thoughts and your questions into the light
of the spirit, that you might see them for what they are. So does
your soul grow.
Question: Were there sons of God who did not choose to come
into the earth plane? Is so, where are they?
Answer: Yes, indeed, there are many sons of God, many of
that begotten which is called "man". On other systems of that
great galaxy even as part of which you call your "Milky Way"
there is a great confederation of these entities that did not choose
to go into third dimensional life. They have been living all the time
that life which you will experience before too long. For all of you
are moving upward in this transition period as the end of this
great age does come to be. There again is something more than
meets the eye. Even as in the sadness of the cross (as it seemed
to be) still was there greater joy, so in the closing of an age, and
that which would seem to be tribulation and difficult periods, joy
should be in your heart, for you are moving on into greater realms.
This is good; it is your life.
Question: In the light of this new teaching there is something
that I would like to hear about - that is why Jesus went through
such intense agony in Gethsemane. We can understand why he
would weep over Jerusalem, but before his crucifixion he certainly
was not fearful of the physical experience involved, because many
human beings have borne pain with great fortitude, among them
the American Indians who took pride in bearing physical pains. He
couldn't have been afraid of that. He certainly was one with the
Father and understood the importance and the glory of his mis-
sion and knew that he was at the point of demonstrating its full
glory. Then why did he have such intense suffering at that time?
Answer: It is, of course, a repeating of man that has brought
much of that. But there was a moment - we would not call it
agony; that was some of man's idea creeping into that - but there
was an important time that he did pray at Gethsemane and he did
also ask that the disciples pray with him and give him strength.
The angels ministered unto him, and in like manner do you seek
63
aid many times and sustaining. You see, in this it was not the death
that he did fear. In fact, he did not fear anything, but he realized
what he was entering for the next step of his mission. And for that
he did ask if the cup could pass from him, could he not show them
that he could at that moment have been quickened and been trans-
lated. He did not have to die. He could have gotten away from the
earth; he could have shown the ascension, even as celestial beings
could come into the earth plane and manifest in their dimension-
you would speak of it as being invisible coming into visibility, or
emerging into this your third dimension. He could have been trans-
lated. But you would have been left with something that you could
not have. So it was not for himself that he had to die, but for you
that he could show you all.
You see, the dying was simple, but it was where his conscious-
ness was going when he did die. You see, there were the lower
realms, and Lucifer did hold prisoner all those souls from the begin-
ning of Adam until that time, all those that had died the physical
death. In consciousness they did descend to the lower vibrations
and they could not release themselves. And, you see, Lucifer did
have great power. He did use force where God does not. The ones
from the paradise state that had chosen to enter the third dimen-
sion had to come into being subject to the physical laws, having so
chosen. They were warned about it, but having chosen that they
were subject to physical laws. So when they did die, as the animal
life, and as that which was an earth creature which was not the
son of God, they did pass through the physical death and did des-
cend into lower vibrations and Lucifer did hold them prisoners.
Then, to accomplish the full mission, Jesus knew that he not
only came into the heavens around the earth and to the astral
realms, and into the physical and to the third dimensional plane,
but he also had to descend into those lower vibrations that he
might free all. And he literally did free them from bondage, for in
that light that he took into the lower vibrations Lucifer could not
touch him. And as he did show all those out in bondage in what
you would call hell - it was a prison, a suspended state lower than
your purgatory state - then did he give them the good news and
those that so chose could follow him out into the higher conscious-
ness, into the paradise state, into the fourth dimension, from that
time on; even as he did say to the thief on the cross that that day
he would be with him because he believed-he chose to be. That
was all; just the choosing. Then did he lead out all those from the
beginning until that day; all the sons of God that had died the
physical death he did lead into the fourth dimension. And he did
tell all the message that he had overcome the grave. That was the
grave. He had overcome those vibrations, he had conquered for
you and the rest of the sons of God, that when they did d1e the
physical death which was the law of the physical they did not go
to that prison and be held in bondage. They did go immediately to
the fourth dimension, the paradise state, if they believed that the
paradise state was waiting for them - if they did cho·ose.
64
It was not a matter of believing this man against another
man, or this doctrine. lt was not that. Man made it the doctrine. It
was the matter of you taking that self of you where you would will
it, and if you did know that he was restoring paradise to you ,you
could will it to be so, that you would go there when you left the
physical flesh and no longer would you be subject to bondage and
the prison. This does not say that, if you did go to lower vibrations,
somewhere there would not be another plan later that would take
care of that. But for now, for this-shaU we call you a crop, to har-
vest is to reap the crop- from this age, from this growth of seed
of the sons of God you were to be restored to that paradise state
in which you were placed and from which you could have Sf\rved
the earth well and performed missions without descending into it -
just as Jesus did perform the mission in the lower vibrations with-
out staying and living with it. He did enter it and come out of it;
you entered the third dimension and remained with it. And if you
had entered into the lower vibrations you could not have overcome
because you have not even overcome the third dimension! So how
could you have overcome the first and second? Do you not see?
He should be "realised" I think that, and he provided the way that
you could go directly to the fourth dimension with the physical
death. That was a gift.
Now he did not know as he entered each dimension; he had to
take it as you would take it. That was the great gift, that he gave
himself not knowing, not being aware of all. Just as your memory
of your past lives are cut off from you at this time, and as that
memory of the in-between when you did return to the other realm
in between earth lives, that memory has been cut off. So did he
have to have his memory cut off, that he might be on an equal
basis with you, that he might go through exactly that which man
had, the only difiference being that he chose to come on the mission,
not because he wanted the earth for the sake of the earth, but he
wanted to come to help lift man up into higher dimensions and
open his consciousness.
Sia in the garden of Gethsemane he did not know when he
descended into those other dimensions whether he could really
accomplish it, overcome it and come out. He was taking a risk
every bit of the way through each dimension. If he had known all,
had not had to put himself on that level with you, it would have
been of no value. He had to identify himself with y'ou, with those on
each plane, each dimension, as he went through in th€ mission.
And in the garden he had willngly given all and gone to that
point, and he was willing to give his life. He dd not mind laying
down the physical life, but he knew he was opening the door to
what ... to lower vibrations.
Would man of earth be willing to make that sacrifice? He is
even frightened to open the spiritual centers because of the un-
known. He does not know whether he can trust his own develop-
ment to bring him out of it. And Jesus knew that he had offered
the mission, but he did not have any guarantee because it had tb
be on his own. He was not in reality cut ofrf from the Father, but ·
65
according to the way that man on earth does look at it and feel
it he experienced that which seemed to be a cutting off from the
Father. For his memory was cut. You see, even as he lived upon
earth his awareness did grow, because of the choice, and he did
become aware of these things and know his oneness with the
Father. He did not know it as a babe, but at the moment of the
cross much of the memory was gotten again for your sake. Because
it had to be on the par with you, it had to be in the way that it
would happen to you if you went into that realm, and yet carrying
with him a great victory, but humanly speaking not knowing if he
could make it, overcome and not be trapped ancl held there, yet
willing to make it, to try it for your sake. And he did enter into that.
The cross was the door. And having accomplished that, gone
through the lower dimensions and appearing again upon earth,
and then requesting that he be not touched for he had come from
the lower dimensions, his very aura did bear the marks of it and
he was not cleansed at the time. He had to ascend to the higher
regions that he might be purified, that he did gain his victory, and
then did he return and show you the accomplishment and that
which you could be without going through that bypass.
You see, then your death becomes a door into the fourth di-
mension. You do not have to enter into the lower ones. He has
spared you that-he has overcome the grave. The next is overcom-
ing death, the final. Not the physical death so much-the death of
the astral. From that plane are you taken away from the earth and
its heaven altogether, and then do you go into that incorruptible
state where you are not vulnerable. Then do you have your c~.crnal
life in that state. It would not be wisdom for you to have eternal
life in the realms of the first, second, third, even the fourth dimen-
sion. As great as it is, it would not be wisdom to have eternal Iiie
in that state for you would vary, you would be flexible, you would
alter, you would not hold it and be sustained. Therefore you do
learn your lessons well, you do move into the next realm, and from
that time on he did lead out all those from the begining, returning
them to the paradise state as was promised in many of the scrip-
tures that Adam would return. In the five and a half days it did
give; "A day is as a thousand years."
And since that time no man who recognized the mission which
he accomplished, and who believed that the fourth dimensio11, the
paradise state, did await him did have to go through the first and
second dimensions and risk that. He risked it for you. From the
highest did he go to the lowest for your sake. That is sacrifice;
that is love; that is an expression of true love. And he did risk all,
for those in the corruptible state may change, but those incorrup-
tible, when they live in that realm of incorruptibility, cannot be
touched, but when they do enter into the plane of corruptibility
they can be affected. And he did risk all. As you would say he took
the greatest gamble that could be, to give up the state of incorrup-
66
tibility to enter into the lower dimensions with that chance, in
having memory cut off, that he would lose his way. But he ever
kept before him his one aim: to be at one with the Father's will fo
remind him of the mission he had to accomplish. You see, m~n did
not do this. He forgot his purpose, he forgot his identity; he lost his
way in that respect. He forgot to hold fast to that rule that he must
remember his identity, remember that he wants to be one with the
Father. So in risking that he did enter into all these dimensions.
Now do you see why in the garden of Gethsemane he would ask
that the cup might pass, for in that moment he knew the mi&sioh.
He had full awareness and full memory. But on the cross with the
memory cut off the mission on the earth p}ane was finishea. But
it opened the doors into the next mission and that which remain-
ed. And in that he could have lost.
Thus the joy that did come when he did attain, he did over-
come, not only for himself at that time, but for all mankind, that
they might forever be free of going into that prison, that state of
bondage; that they might move into the paradise state from which
they could have what is called the second resurrection and be car-
ried into the great space and consciousness in which you are going.
You are headed that way. So thus it was that he did require much
prayer and asked that the disciples pray with him; but you see
they did not understand, they had no idea of what he was going to
do. They slept, and he has asked, as he told you before, that the
disciples of today upon earth do pray and help sustain that in the
astral plane, that war in the astral which is the final overcoming
of Lucifer and his hosts that all may be purified and the earth be
cleansed and changed that man be free forever to enter into that
which is his eternal estate. The disciples are still sleeping. Awake!
Do your part for God is within.
ON SPEAKING IN TONGUES
Question: In the days of our Bible, at pentecost in the upper
room, they spoke with other tongues so that all heard in his own
language. We know that many today have received other tongues -
some in this room. Perhaps I shouldn't try to understand it, but it's
a point of interest to me whether these languages that come are
something that is spoken somewhere in the universe, if they are a
true language, if it is lifted memory of some language someone
may have spoken in some long-ago time, or if it is a sprit language
made for that occasion. Do you understand what I mean?
Yes, beloved it is understandable. There has been some given
on this in another group session and you may find additional in-
formation in one of the lessons of the past. We would say that this
again is something that would not have one specifc answer be-
cause many times it is one and many times it is something else.
There are those that will speak in the spirit and the spirit speaking
through in one of the languages of an ancient country which it
67
may have come through in experience - one that would be more
predominant. And many times it is in the Aramaic. But there ls
another that is universal in' the greater sense that you spe~k of
your galaxy as "universe" - when we speak of universal it is ALL
of spirit. The soul, the spirit entity, has a language, yes, though it
is true that in the ethereal plans there is not the necessity you have
upon earth for a language because there is a thought transmission -
there is a sending forth of more than thought - there is the con-
cept that is projected into the awareness and consciousness of
another and it receives readily. There is a recognition by the light
of the vibration of the spiritul entity. And yet the soul that has
lived through many lifetimes (and there have been hundreds of in-
carnations of each one, many hundreds) then this can come
through in one of those languages.
At another time you will find that a spirit guide will speak
through one when they have moved aside their conscious mind,
their thinking. Then possibly a philosopher or one that is of a
guardian nature or a guide to one would speak through in a1
1cient
Chinese, for instance, or Elgyptian. So much depends upon the de-
sires, the choice, the purpose within the soul itself. And of course,
if you have someone that could interpret the languages you might
readily find the difference. But there is a time when the very soul
of one cries out for expression - you see the soul has been sub-
merged for so long, the spirit has been almost as a prisoner within
you. For the one that has been nurtured ever since the paradise
state, eating the fruit of the tree, yes - rather than to nurture the
spirit of you - has been the nurturing of the astral seU, the ego,
which has overcome the physical and the spiritual, bringing dis-
aster to the entity. And so you must reverse that. That is the cruci-
fying of the self, as we have said, that you let the imprisoned soul
step forth. And so it awakens, the door is opened with many,
whether it comes through religious approach or that of opening
the psychic centres through the glandular understanding, or
whether it comes through the practice of the occult, the soul will
finally express. And according to the development of the soul, to
the degree of its awareness and to the degree that you move out
of the way consciously and let the soul express, you will get varia-
tions.
The prayers going out are the spirit. Daily you may speak in
the spirit and this gives freedom and release and is good for the
edifying of the soul. But, as was given long ago in the early groups
of those following the Master Jesus, it was that it should be inter-
preted if it was to be for the edification of the church of those lis-
tening. There should be also the prayer for the interpretation of the
tongues. It is good to release your soul but it does not help another
cal. Many have needed signs for belief. Even the disciples that fol-
except as proof of the spirit manifestation rather than the physl-
lowed the Master had to touch him before they could believe be-
cause he come again in the body of a higher dimension, tlie glori-
fied body which could move through walls and yet appeared to be
solid.
68
This is what we have tried to give to show you that that is
the body you are forming with the atomic structure of you. You
will some day have this - you will speak of it as being solidified;
it is not of the same density of the human flesh, but similar - radi-
ating in the higher frequency of the body. In this you will find
those that are returning to earth, even as we have given the pur-
pose and meaning behind the coming of the ethereal ships - l:hose
that you call space ships - that you cannot always identify in your
earth realm. It isn't phenomena: it is the ethereal beings coming
to earth in natural ways of transportation. Even though they can
teleport through from one dimension to another they use the ships
of ethereal power that carry from one planet to another, fro1'n one
solar system to another. There is not the need for that which you
have in your atmosphere around your planet - it is a different kind
of transportation, and as it comes in to that which is your earthly
atmosphere, it is slowed down in vibration until you begin to see
with the physical eye at times.
Some of those beings are walking the earth today, even as
they sat and dined with Abraham and with Lot and with many o-f
those in the stories in your Holy writings. Angels appeared and
sat with them and dined with them in human form, and yet a dif-
ference in density. And so it is today. And in this same way (you
see, it all fits together) you will find that the releasing of the soul,
the growth of the soul will come forth in whatever way it can
best express. Whether it comes through in the Chinese language
which the soul has experienced in another incarnation - that
might be the easiest way for it to express - or whether it be ir, the
Aramaic, or what is called the universal language of the soul, many
times you will feel and recognize by the depth of the expression
which it is. In any cause it is not too important so long as the soul
is truly seeking freedom and it is the spirit. The protection is there,
knowing that you are serving and working under the Christ light.
Another that would be of wrong motives could be taken over by a
spirit of the astra;l plane and there could be a deception and a mis-
leading. This is where you on earth would call it "the integrity
of you"; the motive within your soul is going to bring forth that
which is its complement.
When in congregation pray for discernment, for interpreta-
tion. It is good as it comes - it is not that one would feel it mnst be
essential for all, for the spirit works in many ways - some have the
gift of prophecy, some have the gift of healing, some have the
speaking of tongues. These are all gifts and they are all of the
spirit of the same God manifesting through the different chaimels
of earth according to their willingness and their opening of the
doors. It is not that all must experience each but according to the
soul expression of each one, let him do that which is the best that
he can according to the calling within his own soul, and let him
69
not judge others. The soul will express in the way that is your indi-
vidual expression; so let it come forth. Most of all let love express
through you from the soul of you. Many times inspiration will come
and bring words in the language in which you are familiar. You will
recognize that which is coming from the spirit. You are in the spifit
when your conscious mind is set aside deliberately, that you may
know your true self, that the soul is open and aware. Then do you
find peace surrounding you. Then do you feel in loving mood, as
you would speak o>f it, for the spirit will lead you to all truth. You
see, you are not aware of that which is going on between the souls
all the time, with the entities, those of you. You are not aware of
what your soul is wishing to express - you are aware of the con-
sciousness of you, of the astral and the ego. And so once in a
while the desire of the soul s'1ips through.
Question: When we are aware of what the soul wants and
respond to that with all of our being, then we are in alignment - is
that right?
Yes, beloved, as you begin to see and of course the soul - this
is one thing I must make clear - that the soul is the entity whicll
has within it the spirit, tbe divine image. You are building, you are
creating your eternal body for this soul. At times, the soul being
immature - it has not become perfected yet - then there can be
wrong choices made by the soul, yet. But if you are seeking the
divine guidance and seeking to have your soul one with the Crea-
tor, then you are turning within the centre of you, which is a.s we
have said before, the eye of the hurricane, the calm centre in the
midst of chaos and confusion of your mind, of your ·body, of your
earth; and as you turn within there, then you are receiving the
divine instruction, the wisdom, which then will lead all. But it is
through the door of the soul desire, yes.
Questioner: I think in my question I confused the soul witfi
the !ipirit.
Yes, many do this. But the spirit is the wisdom and the eodly
attributes within you which will be eternal, and the soul is tlie
growing body that you are perfecting according to your choice.
You see, the soul having been made in the image o:f God, has all
these within but it has not grown to maturity. So you nurtm·e the
soul - it is this that was spoken of as the new creation, the new
body. "You must be born again", it is said. You nurture the soul of
you rather than nurturing and feeding the selfishness of the ego.
FROM MONTANA:
"Dear Brother Kullgren: To Greet you in the Precious Name
of Jesus, and to tell you my copy of B.L.H. came a couple days ago.
Have read it twice through already, but am not near the end of
digestion. I was reading again last evening "Visions of Future." Oh,
Bro. Kullgren if you could only know how the vibration of my
heart followed those thoughts of yours through that article. I just
wonder, yes, very much, how many of your readers find the chan-
nel of meaning in those wonderful, precious articles? ...G. C. C."
70
•
ON SOUL MATES
Question: How can one discern the difference between the
ordinary person and the soul mate?
This is indeed a vast subject, but we would say that it is
rare that there are two soul mates living together on earth at this
time. It is possible and there are exceptions, but it is extremely
rare because, of course, the marriages made upon earth are the
ones made by the human will, either according to the customs and
tradition of the country or the desire of the physical or the prac-
ticality of the mental. Very rare is there one where there is a com-
patibility upon all planes, the physical, the emotional, the menti l,
the spiritual. But when there is the true marriage in heaven, this
is the one that man must not put asunder. Most marriages are
those made by man and he speaks of them as made by God be-
cause he has a little piece of paper in his 'hand.
God hasn't ordained man to marry for many reasons that he
does. It is all right that he should certainly find the one closest
to his ideal. I am not saying this should not be done. I am pointing
out the difference. If it is love from the heart, the sincerity of the
soul and the true seeking to merge in spirit, each giving of himself
to the other, to become one, to walk the earth together in what-
ever way that they might make the earth more beautiful, ;make
those around them happier as they walk through the earth serv-
ing their God and humanity. But where there is great friction, if
you would go according to your earthly word of "sin," we would
say it would be more sinful to live with one always in resentment
and friction, than it would to be apart, or to live with another
even without this that you think so important, man-made rules 'l"if
your earth, this which would be certificate.
It is that man should come together in true purpose of soul.
It should be merging of spirit as well as the physical, and an agree-
ment on the mental plane.-But he can wa:lk the earth in this man-
ner, each life experience. You see, you could never have the same
one in each life, you would not be growing in the same way. You
were androgynous long ago. There was a separation. You do not
feel complete because the two, positive and negative, must be to-
gether for completion. It must not be the physical completion but
the soul completion. In the future you will again be androgynous
but you will in the meantime walk the earth through many life ex-
periences, each one according to the different needs for the work-
ing through of karmic iaw, the different associations that you have
had. Each lifetime the family grouping around you and the friends
and those of your environment are those that you have been with
in some other relationship in another lifetime, either working to-
gether co-operatively or, if there has been bitterness or hatred or
something of this kind, you must again return and work with
them until you overcome this. There is a constant overcoming.
And so in this earth, back to your ques.Uon, it is most li1rnly
that you will not be soul mates. The recognition would be that
71
they would be so finely attuned, so sensitive to one another that
they could know each other's thoughts, they would meld to-
gether; there would be a merging as if they were one. And there
would be compatibility on all planes. There would be a love so rare
that it would be obvious to the world. There have been some of
these in the past. Some would have to develop emotionally in one
life experience and go through many things until they would over-
come emotional instability .Others would have to work through
the intellectual that they have depended upon so much until they
overcame the need for the great dependence upon the intellect.
Others would have to overcome the dependence that they would
place upon wealth. There is nothing wrong with any of them - It is
only if you put them first before your God, if you depend and
lean upon them as being all.
Each individual will go through many lifetimes working
through one area and then another with a definite plan, and when
he goes back to the state in between incarnations he tries to balance
the books, he tries to take account of what has been and what area
is still weak. Those that would be extremely fearful would have to
come back and put themselves into situations that would bring
fear, that they might work through it and remove it. If you can
move through ,some experience without emotional distress, without
resentment, without hatred or judging, then you have come
through it in perfect balance and overcome in another life exper-
ience or you would not be able to do that. If you have no tempta-
tions whatsoever to steal, to lose yourself in drink, to murder, to do
any of the things that would be a horror to you, it is not that you
are so saintly, it is that you have done such and have learned
through trial and error and by experience in many life-times. You
have overcome; and it is to your credit that you have overcome
yes, but it is not that one would gloat over such things - it brings
humility. Each soul mate experiences these things and overcomes
one by one many things. And that which confronts you time after
time is something that you have come here to meet and to over-
come. And so you cannot succumb to it, you cannot be vulnerable,
you cannot let it hurt you, you cannot turn away from it. You meet
it straightforwardly and overcome it through your choice. Then
you are ready to go forward into another area, and that is what
heaven is.
So as each soul mate is doing this with a definite plan and
purpose in mind through many incarnations, on through until the
higher realms are reached, then you are ready to merge and be
one. Each part has become complete in itself but it has then the
understanding; then do you know and experience a true marriage
in heaven, the merging of the souls. Then is it eternal. But there
are some on earth that would be drawn together for they have been
very close, possibly through many life experiences, and they would
feel that this might be what would be called a soul mate. And it
would be similar, having been together many times, having under-
stood and come very close on the same vibration, they are living
72
the consciousness which is light. It is on the same frequency and
they feel as one, and this closeness, this rapport, is that which
should be reached for, and looked for. This is as close as you can
have true marriage on earth. You would feel and recognise the
compatibility on all these levels. But the true soul mate you will
find later.
In the next dimension there is a love without selfishness and it
is not a marriage in the same sense. It is not the giving of mar-
riage, the possessing of one or the o,ther. It is not a jealousy. But
by the time you are in the next dimension you will have learned love
in a greater way and there will not be the selfishness, the jealousy,
the things of the astral plane. These are the things that you are
putting down that you might learn to live according to the at-
tributes of the God-head within you. So you would not rec0gnize
your soul mate on earth. But this that I have given you for the
time being would be compara;ble and to be desired. This rapport of
the spirit is the most important. Then if you have love, you learn
to like the individual, you learn to understand and forgive and to
realize the difference in the personalities and to know that the
things of earth nature will have to be overcome. And you have
patience and tolerance. This would be true love, but the rapport of
the spirit is first of all, most important.
Reprinted by HERALDS1 OF THE NEW AGE
Auckland Centre (New Address)
3 Glanville Terrace, Parnell, Auckland C.4. New Zealand.
REGISTERED FOR SURVIVAL
By Howard 8. Rand
From "DESTINY" March, 1962
In this day of possible military attack, with the enemy using
nuclear weapons, survival from the initial destructive effects of
bombing is uppermost in the minds of many persons. The govern-
ment Is issuing information to enable citizens to construct fallout
shelters and some have already been built as places in which to
hide from the effects of atomic warfare. There are others who, in
a more fatalistic mood, await developments with the hope that,
somehow or other, war may be averted. If not, they reason that it
will be disastrous for an regardless of measures taken to avoid its
aftereffects. The pessmistic ones envision the destruction of all
human life as the inevitable end of the race to build bigger and
more powerful nuclear weapons. Men are fearful and apprehensive,
for the outlook is fraught with uneaisy prospects, humanly speak-
ing, engendering fear bordering on panic. ·
God Overrules
While it is indeed possble for men to build bombs of sufficient
size to destroy life upon this globe and make a shambles of the
73
earth, we must also remember that there is a God in heaven of
whom Isaiah deelares:
"All nations before him are as.nothing; and they ar-e
counted to him less than nothing, and vanity." (Isa. 40:17.)
God is not going to allow evil men, or nations which are sat-
anically directed, to triumph in spite of the boasting of Khrushchev
and the evil program he and his cohorts have master-minded.
Speaking of the time when men would face the conditions con-
fronting our generation and be in fear, Jesus said:
"Men's hearts failing them for fear, and for looking after
those things which are coming on the earth: for the powers of
heaven shall be shaken." (Luke 21:26.)
As pointed out in "The Release of Atomic Errergy," DESTINY
for October 1945:
"The meaning of the expression, 'the powers of heaven shall
be shaken,' is worthy of study. The atom is a universe in minia-
ture, with its own central sun, planets and heaven. In the splitting
of the atom, literally the power (Greek word translated power is
Dunamis), meaning the violence or strength of heaven, is shaken
The Greek word Saleuo is translated shaken and means agitated,
tossed or stirred up as by an earthquake or cyclone. The atomic
bomb thus produces a cyclonic effect as well as a great heat and
light comparable to that of the sun. No doubt its earthquake effect
will be increased as men perfect its construction and use. This,
then, may be a contributing factor in the coming, predicted, world-
shaking earthquake to which all the prophets refer as the shaking
of the powers of heaven. -
"It is inconceivable that Russia will move to fulfill Ezekiel's
prediction of evil aggression on her part while the atomic bomb
remains the exclusive property of the Anglo-Saxon world. Because
prophecy depicts a great offensive led by Moscow against the
Anglo-Saxon world, it would follow that the Soviets will have ac-
quired information ena:bling them to use this destructive force. As
long as there are unregenerated men and aggressive nations, it ls
unresonable to expect we shall be able to keep from them the
possibility of using the destructive force of atomic power today."
(Documentary Studies, Volume 1, pages 227-228.)
Since this was written sixteen years ago, Soviet Russia has
come into possession of this powerful force, thanks to traitm·s and
saboteurs in our midst. Under the evil leadership of the Kremlin,
Soviet Russia has done exactly what should have been anticipated,
immediately seizing the opportunity to use the knowledge acquired
to build bigger and more powerful bombs as a terror weapon to
put fear into the hearts of men and nations who would undertake
to oppose her in her evil aggression.
Let us remember, however, that Khrushchev and the boastful
men around him have by no means taken over the direction of the
affairs of the earth. The wicked trust in armament and boast of
the ability to carry out their heart's desire, unmindful of the fact
74
that military might and modern atomic weapons are as nothing
in the sight of our Afmighty God whom Isaiah extolled when he
asked the question:
"Who hath measured the waters in the hollow of his
hand, and meted out heaven with the span, and comprehended
dust of the earth in a measure, and weighed the mountains
in scales, and the hills in a balance?" (Isa. 40:12.)
The very breath of life that animates evil men can be recalled
by their Creator at a moment's notice. Then what will become of
their vaunted desires and plans? Even the evil they contemplate
and actually carry out is subject to restraint and can in no way
hinder the Divine purpose.
For the Elect's Sake
Jesus made this quite clear when He spoke of this generation
and the possibility of annihilation facing the human race. He con-
ceded that the wholesale slaughter of people would be inevitable
except for Divine intervention, but He gave His assurance that the
intervention to which He alluded would become a reality "for the ·
elect's sake." He declared that world conditions in that day would
make it a time of trouble more sever than any since the beginning
of the world. T:hen He said:
"And except those days should be shortened, there should
no flesh be saved: but for the elect's sake those days shall be
shortened." (Matt. 24:22.)
The Lord's promise wil.J not fail to be fulfilled for the sake of
those designated as "the elect." This is Elect Israel who were, as
Peter expressed it, "elect according to the foreknowledge of God
the Father" (1Peter1:2; Isa. 45:4; also see Isa. 43: 1-12).
However, within the Israel of God there is a continual process
of selection, for, as defined, the elect comprise "the body of those s.et
apart as elect or select." Further, while "selection implies a wide
range of choice, election carries the implication of an end or pur-
pose which requires exercise of judgment."
The Divine end in view, as clearly shown in the Scripture, is
association with the Lord Himself, standing with Him in His gov-
ernment. Therefore, the elect who are referred to in the 31st verse
of the 24th chapter of Matthew are gathered together when one
trumpet sounds. The question naturaUy arises: If the elect are to
be gathered as here and elsewhere indicated, and they are, there-
fore, not subject to destruction, why is it necessary, for theil' sake,
to prevent the annihilation of the human race?
No Promise Will Fail
There are certain promises made to the elect which could not
be fulfilled if the earth or its inha:bitants were completely destroy-
ed. The elect are to receive the Kingdom; they are to have power
and to rule over the nations. If all people were destroyed, there
would be no nations over which they could rule. Furthermore, the
continuity of the human race is vouched for in Isaiah's prophecy
addressed to God's people:
75
_"The sons also of them that afflicted thee shall come
bending unto thee; and all they that despised thee shall bow
themselves down at the soles of thy feet; and they shall call
thee, The city of the Lord. The Zion of the Holy One of Israel.,.,
(Isa. 60:14.)
There are many other passages in the Scriptures assuring the
future greatness of God's people. None of these promises would be
fulfilled if no one on earth were able to survive the present threat
of annihilation. It is true that the threat exists, but Divine restraint
will prevent its full implementation. There will, accordng to the
prophets of the Lord, be a measure of destruction and even God's
people Israel will suffer severe chastisement for their failure to
heed the call to righteousness. The Lord will use the pressure of
the enemy against His people to compel them to awaken to spirit-
ual values and turn back to Him. Then the wrath of God will des-
cend upon the foes of His Kingdom. The Lord has declared through
the Prophet E·zekiel:
"And it shaH come to pass at the same time when Gog
(Soviet Russia) shall come against the land of Israel, saith
the Lord God, that my fury shall come up in my face. Fur in
my jealousy and in the fire of my wrath have I spoken." (Ez.
38: 18-19.)
In the Day of Battle
The prophet then goes on to describe the complete overthrow
of the great confederacy that has moved against His people, for as
Zechariah declares:
"Then shall the Lord go forth, and fight againt those na-
tions, as when he fought in the day of battle." (Zech. 14:3.)
No nation, no combination of nations, not even the whole
world arrayed against the Lord, will be able to stand before the
weapons of His indignation. Thus we are assured of the ultimate
triumph of righteousnesss at the climax of the Battle of That Great
Day of God Almighty. During the period of this sanguinary con-
flict, many will perish, for God has declared He will cause His
people to pass under the rod, with the result:
"I will purge out from among you the rebels, and them
that transgress against me." (Ez. 20:38.)
Forgiveness Assured
It will only be after this purging has taken P,lace that what the
Lord states through Jeremiah will come about:
i "In those days, and in that time, saith the Lord, the ini-
quity of Israel shall be sought for, and there shall be none;
and the sins of Judah, and they shall not be found: for I will
pardon them whom I reserve." (Jer. 50:20.)
Isaiah states:
"It shall come to pass in that day, that the remnant of
Israel, and such as are escaped of the house of Jacob, shall
no more again stay upon him that smote them; but shall stay
upon the Lord, the Holy One of Israel, in truth." (Isa. 10:20).
76
The Lord had this time of judgment in mind when He admon-
ished His disciples to be alert, declaring:
"Watch ye therefore, and pray always, that ye may be
accounted worthy to escape all these things that shall come
to pass, and to stand before the Son of man." (Luke 21:36.)
This is a special message calling for watchfulness on the part
of those who are to be numbered among the elect, and our Lord
said further:
"When these things begin to come to pass, then look up,
and lift up your heads; for your redemption (loosing away)
draweth nigh." (Luke 21:28.)
It is well to note that our Lord states here. "When these
things begin to come to pass." It is not when they are entirely ac-
complished, but in their inception that those who are aware of the
significance of the times and seasons are to be heartened, knowing
that when atomic fires have made their appearance in fulfillment
of the statement, "the powers of heaven shall be shaken," the pro-
mise to the elect is that they shall escape the holocaust if they are
registered for survival.
The Book of Remembrance
Looking toward the day when atomic fires will be burning
upon the earth, Isaiah apparently viewed the prospect with great
alarm and was led to exclaim:
"Who among us shall dwell with the devouring (atomic)
fire? Who among us shall dwell with everlasting burnings? n
(Isa. 33:14.)
He then answers his own questions by stating it will be those
whose lives are governed by righteousness who will obtain the
necessary protection:
"He who walks uprightly, and speaks sincerely,
"Who scorns the gain that is won by oppression,
"Who keeps his hand free from the touch of a bribe,
"Who stops his ears against hearing of bloodshed,
"And closes his eyes against looking on evil." (Isa. 33 :15,
Smith & Goodspeed Trans.)
The conclusion naturally follows that there is Divine cogni-
zance of the conduct of each Christian and the all-important fact
to be borne in mind is that a record is being kept. In it will be found
a list of names, for the Angel referred to such a register in his
instrctions to the Prophet Daniel:
"At that time thy people shall be delivered, ev...ery one that
shall be found written in the book." (Dan. 12 :1.)
The Prophet Malachi gives this book a specific name - tll'e
Book of Remembrance - mentioning that it contains the list of
those who greatly revere the Name of the Lord and speak of Him
and His purposes often with one another:
"Then they that feared the Lord spake often one to an-
other: and the Lord hearkened, and heard it, and a book of
remembrance was written before him for them that feared
the Lord, and that thought upon his name. And they shall be
77
mine, saith the Lord of hosts, in that day when I make up my
jewels; ~nd I will spare them, as a man spareth his own son
that serveth him." (Mal. 3:16-17.)
The Divine registration of the members of the human •·ace,
listing individual accomplishments, far exceeds in accuracy any
tabulation of personal traits and characteristics possible to human
conception, for not even the most minute detail is overlooked. This
has been true from the beginning and even Moses was aware of the
keeping of such a record when he pleaded for God's forgiveness for
the sins of His people following the worship of the golden calf:
"Yet now, if thou wilt forgive their sin-; and if not, blot
me, I pray thee, out of thy book which thou hast written."
(Ex. 32:32.)
The Lord answered Moses by saying:
,"Whosoever hath sinned against me, him will I blot out of
my book." (Ex. 32:33.)
Numbered for Judgment
What of those whose names are not registered in the book to
which the Angel referred in his instructions to Daniel, which Mala-
chi calls the Book of Remembrance? Jeremiah gives an interesting
account of the numbering of the peopie in a time of trouble, some
for death, some for the sword, some for the famine and some for
capitivity (Jer. 15:2). This does not support the idea of fatalism,
for each one has it within his own power to change his status, at
least to graduate from any of the groups designated and have his
name written in the Book of Remebrance by complying with the
required conditions.
The faithless, the worldly, the unbelieving, cannot hope to be
registered for survival in the Book of Remembrance. Those who
flout the Word of the Lord and refuse to walk in the ways of right-
eousness cannot complain if, instead of being listed among the
chosen whom God is to spare as a man spares his own son who
serves him, they find themselves being classified as subject to
varying phases of disciplinary judgment when God moves to purge
out from among His people those who are in rebellion against Him.
Time of Deliverance
The Angel stated to Daniel that at the time of deliverance to
come, many asleep in the dust of the earth would awaken, thus
associating the time of resurrection with the day when atomic
fires will begin to burn upon the earth. The fact that his deliver-
ance, and the resurrection which is a part of it, precedes the holo-
caust of destruction in the judgment that will come upon evil
men and nations is made quit clear by the Prophet Isaiah, who
places the resurrection as preceding the time when the Lord will
move to punish the inhabitants of the earth !or their iniquity. The
prophet states:
"Thy dead men shall live, together with my dead body
shall they arise. Awake and sing, ye that dwell in dust." (Isa.
26:19.)
Following this summons, the exhoration is given:
78
"Come, my people, enter thou into thy chambers, and
shtit thy doors a:bout thee; hide thyself as it were for a little
moment, until the indignation be oiferpast." (Isa. 26 :20.)
This is a call for those who must pass through the time of
indignation to seek shelter during the devastation to sweep over
the world. The reason for this is given by Isaiah:
"For, behold, the Lord cometh out of his place to punish
the inhabitants of the earth for their iniquity; the earth also
shall disclose her blood, and shall no more cover her slain."
(Isa. 26:21.)
Registered for Rulership
In His book of registration, God has directed the entry of
those to be schooled to qualify for positions of rulership in His
Kingdom. In Daniel we have a reference to this fact:
"And the kingdom and dominion, and the greatness of
the kingdom under the whole heaven, shall be given to the
people of the saints of the most High, whose kingdom i.s an
everlasting kingdom, and all dominions shall serve and obey
him." (Dan. 7:27.)
The statment, "shall be given to the people of the saints of
the most High," can be rendered literally, "but the righteous ones
of the most High shall receive the Kingdom." As pointed out in
Study in Daniel:
"This is important for the holy ones, or set-apart ones,
are Israel and, as we have already pointed out, the Kingdom
is the House of Jacob over which Jesus Christ is to reign for-
ever. Actually, the world 'holy,' as it is used in the Scriptures,
simply means 'set apart for service.' The Israel peoples are
holy to the Lord because the Israel race was called, chosen and
set apart to serve Him and be used to accomplish His purpose.
But rulership in that Kingdom is to be given only to the
righteous ones among the holy ones who alone qualify for
positions of authority and power in the Kingdom by virtue of
having beome 'overcomers.' " (Study in Daniel, pp. 189-190.)
In the New Testament we are informed that only the selected
few will be given authority, power and the right to rule in the
Kingdom and have supervision over the affairs of state. Paul called
them:
"Joint-heirs with Christ; if so be that we suffer with him,
that we may be also glorified together. For I reckon that the
sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be com-
pared with the glory which shall be revealed in us." (Rom.
8:17-18.)
"If we suffer, we shall also reign with them." (IT Tim.
2:12.)
This fact is borne out in the statment in Revelation:
"He that overcometh shall inherit all things; and I will
be his God, and he shall be my son." (Rev. 21 :7.)
The Apostle John was given a vision of the forthcoming gov-
ernment of His Kingdom when Jesus Christ returns to take the
79
throne of His father David and reign over the House of Jacob
forever:
, "And I looked, and, lo, a Lamb stood on the mount Sion,
and with him an hundred forty and four thousand, having his
Father's name written in their foreheads." (Rev. 14 :1.)
This is a symbolic depiction of the government of our Lord
and the overcomers standing with Him on Mount Zion; that is,
those associated with Him in the administration of the affairs of
state.
The Sound of the Trumpet
How is the selected group identified who are to become rulers
in the Kingdom? How are they separated as "the righteous ones"
from among "the holy ones" who are to have the privilege of reign-
ing with our Lord? Moses was instructed to make two triumpets of
silver, to be used in calling together the assembly and for the jour-
neying of the camp. He was told:
"And when they shall blow with them, all the assembly
shall assemble themselves to thee at the door of the taber-
nacle of the congregation." (Num. 10:3.)
Thus, the blowing of two trumpets was to call all the congre-
gation of the people together before the Lord at the tabernacle.
Note, however, that, when the rulers alone were to be assembled,
the statement is made:
"And if they blow but with one trumpet, then the princes,
which are heads of the thousands of Israel, shall gather them-
selves unto thee." (Num. 1'0 :4.)
Turning to the New Testament, Paul informs us about the re-
surrection and translation:
"But I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, con-
cerning them which are asleep, that ye sorrow not, even as
others which have no hope. For if we believe that Jesus died
and rose again, even so them also which sleep in Jesus will
God bring with him. For this we say unto you by the word
of the Lord, that we which are alive and remain unto the com-
ing of the Lord shall not prevent (or precede) them which
are asleep. For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven
with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and with the
trump of God : and the dead in Christ shall rise first: Then
we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together
with them in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air: and so
shall we ever be with the Lord." (I Thess. 4:13-17.)
Paul refers to the blowing of one trumpet only. Accordingly,
in line with the instructions to Moses, those who are to reign with
the Lord are the ones concerned, who are to assemble as a result
of the blowing of one trumpet. Thus, the dead in Christ who qualify
for rulership and those who are alive, meeting the same qualifica-
tions, are the ones affected. These constitute the elect to whom
Jesus referred when, fo'llowing the appearing of the sign of the
Sion of man in heaven, He said:
80
•
"And he shall send his angels with a great sound of a
trumpet, and they shall gather together his elect from the
four winds, from one end of heaven to the other." (Matt. 24:
31.)
These are the overcomers whose names are given preferred
listing in the Book of Remembrance, the ones whom Malachi de-
clared God will spare as a man spares his own son who serves him.
That from which they are to be spared is the period of God's
wrath that Jesus counseled His disciples they should pray that they
may be accounted worthy to escape and, having done so, stand
before the Son of man (Luke 21:36).
Behold Your King!
After listing the overcomers as the ones who will be saved
from the destruction of atomic fires, Isaiah states of them:
"Thine eyes shall see the king in his beauty: they shall
behold the land that is very far off." (Isa. 33:17.)
Ferrar Fenton renders this:
"Thence the King in His beauty your eyes shall regard;
you shall look on your land spread below."
It is those who are to stand before the Lord who will behold
the King in His beauty in the day when, in accordance with Paul's
declaration, the resurrected and translated ones ascend to meet
the Lord "in the air."* Isaiah indicates that, from that vantage
point, they will look upon the land far below and contemplate the
*See pp. 49-51 in Behold, He Cometh! $2.00 postpaid.
Destiny Publishers, Merrimac, Mass.
conflict that will be transpiring on the earth, from which turmoil
they will have escaped. Elected for survival, John in Revelation
sees them gathered at the Marriage Supper of the Lamb and it is of
them that the Angel was speaking when He told John:
"Write, Blessed are they which are called unto the mar-
riage supper of the Lamb. And he saith unto me, These are the
true sayings of God." (Rev. 19:9.)
Order ol Events
The question is repeatedly asked: Do we have in the Scrip-
tures information setting forth the timing and order of events
regarding the resurrection, the translation and the time of judg-
ment during which the Lord will come forth out of His place to
punish the inhabitants of the earth for their iniquity? Indeed, th1s
information is available to those who will search for it.
The Reformation
The tenth chapter of Revelation deals with the period of the
Reformation. The Mighty Angel who came down from heaven,
clothed with a cloud and with a rainbow upon his head, whose face
was like the sun in brightness and his feet as pillars of fire, had in
his hand "a little book open." That little book was the Bibk that
had become a small volume, comparatively speaking, as the result
of the invention of the printing press, reducing it in size and mak-
ing it available to the common people. The book was open in the
81
hand of the Angel and he set his right foot upon the sea, with the
result that the Spanish Armada, launched and equipped for the
purpose of destroying the Reformation that had secured a foothold
in Great Britain, sank beneath the waters of the sea. Then he
planted his left foot upon the earth and the armies of conquest
were stayed while the forces of the Reformation moved forward
upon the continent. This Mighty Angel took an oath, swearing by
Him who lives forever, to confirm the timing when the "mystery of
God" would be finished:
"But in the days of the voice of the seventh angel, when
he shall begin to sound, the mystery of God should be finish-
ed, as he hath declared to his servants the prophets." {Rev.
10:7.)
Mystery of God
The seventh angel is the angel of the Third Woe, or the Red
Woe of World Communism. The statement, "when he shall begin
to sound," may be literally translated, "when he is about to sound."
Therefore, this Mighty Angel is stipulating that, when the Red
Woe is about to begin, the mystery of God will be "finished" ; lhat
is, consummated, Paul declared:
"Behoid, I shew you a mystery; We shall not all sleep, but
we shall all be changed, in a moment, in the twinkling of an
eye, as the last trump: for the trumpet shall sound, and the
dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed."
(I Car. 15:51-52.)
The word translated "mystery" has reference to a sec1 et as
the result of silence imposed by initiation into religious rites. It is
true that the resurrection is such a mystery, for it is impossible
for those initiated into an understanding of the meaning of this sec-
ret to explain it and fully share their knowledge with others, parti-
cularly those who are not attuned to spiritual truth. However, the
Mighty Angel has declared that, in the day when the Third Woe is
about to begin, this mystery will be revealed to the world. ·
Furthermore, it is of special interest to note, in this generation
which has been introduced to the meaning of the release of atomic
energy, that the Greek word translated "moment" in Paul's phras-
ing of "in a moment, in the twinkling of an "eye" is atomos.
Strong's Concordance states it to mean "uncut" ; that is, by impli-
cation, "indivisible," like an atom of time. In his article, "Through
the Veils," DIDSTINY for July 1961, James S. McGraw stated that
the exact rendering of this is "in the atomic." While this wording,
in its primary meaning, refers to the structural change that will
occur in the bodies of those who are translated, it is significant
that the word used in expressing this change designates the type
of force that has come into being, putting the nations in fear of
the fiery holocaust to come and the destruction that will be
wrought by the use of atomic bombs. However, the Mighty Angel
82
reveals that this change, or translation, will occur before the Red
Woe of Soviet aggression becomes a full-scale military offe11sive.
Gathering the Elect
Our Lord confirms the same order in that, as Luke points out,
when these things begin to come to pass; that is, when "the pow-
ers of heaven shall be shaken," which is the inception of events
:: leading to nuclear conflict, then "your redemption draweth nigh."
The interesting fact is that the Greek word translated "redemp-
tion" can be rendered your "losing away, or deliverance, draweth
nigh." Thus, our Lord states that in the inception of events that
will usher in the Great and Terrible Day of the Lord, the resurrec-
tion and translation is to become a reality.
The 26th chapter of Isaiah, quoted above, points to the !:lame
order: first those who dwell in the dust of the earth will awaken;
then those not affected by the resurrection and translation are
counselled to seek shelter until the indignation be overpast; fol-
lowed by the Lord moving in judgment against the inhabitants of
the earth.
Further confirmation of the timing of these events is given in
the 24th chapter of Matthew. There our Lord pointed out thrrt the
gathering of the elect from the four corners of the earth at the
sound of the trumpet will occur in a time of comparative peace.
He stated that two will be in the field, one will be taken and the
other left; two women will be grinding at the mill, one will be taken
and the other left. This type of activity indicates that conflict will
not have broken out when the summons comes for those who are
to go in with the Lord to the Marriage Supper.
The same thought is carried out in relation to the analogies
drawn by our Lord from the Old Testament. He stated that condi-
tions would be like those in the days of Noah. Noah entered the
ark prior to the coming of the Deluge; thus, he was in a place of
safety before the destruction took place that overwhelmed the in-
habitants of the earth. The reference to Lot was also used by our
Lord, for He stated:
"As it was in the days of Lot; they did eat, they drank,
they bought, they sold, they planted, they builded; but the
same day that Lot went out of Sodom it rained fire and brim-
stone from heaven, and destroyed them all. Even thus shall
it be in the day when the Son of man is revealed." (Luke 17:
28-30.)
It is quite interesting that the word "revealed" is used here,
for this does not indicate the triumphant return of our Lord;
rather the revelation of His presence as the result of the appearing
of the Sign of the Son of man in heaven, again confirming the fact
that the resurrection and translation will occur before the destruc-
tion itself takes place.
A Critical and Awesome Time
We are living in the most critical and awesome time in the
whole history of Christendom. The days are at hand during which
83
the Lord's admonition to His disciples should be given thoughtful
and prayerful consideration on the part of all who aspire to attain
the status of overcomers. While we are not yet aware of the exact
moment of the event itself, we do know that the season of His ~om­
ing is upon us and the time of His arrival is at hand: ·
"Take ye heed, watch and pray: for ye know not when
the time is. For the S,on of man is as a man taking a far jour-
ney, who left his house, and gave authority to his servants,
and to every man his work, and commanded the porter to
watch. Watch ye therefore: for ye know not when the master
of the house cometh, at even, or at midnight, or at the cock-
crowing, or in the morning: Lest coming suddenly he find
you sleeping. And what I say unto you I say unto all, Watch."
(Mark 13:33-37.)
We are living in the Laodicean Church period of the Christian
Dispensation, the final phase of church activity prior to the Lord's
return (Rev. 3:14-22). It was to be a time of great apostasy, mark-
ed by ceremonialism without true spirituality and theological den-
ials of the authenticity and accuracy of the Word of the Lord. Yet,
according to our Lord's instructions to John, it would be the very
day when He would be standing at the door, ready to enter. We are
told by Paul in the first chapter of his second letter to the Thes-
salonians that "when the Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven
with his mighty angels," He will "in flaming fire take vengeance
on them that know not God, and that obey not the gospel of our
Lord Jesus Christ." They will have no place in "the presence of
the Lord," nor will they behold "the glory of his power when he
shall come to be glorified in his saints (the elect) and to be admir-
ed in all them that believe in that day."
The Bible: World's Most Unusual Book!
From "The Kingdom Digest", March, 1962
J. A. LOVELL, Editor
(The following is the essence of an address delivered by the
editor fo a group in Hollywood, where he flew recently and spol<e
to a wonderful group of Hollywood actors and actresses known
as The Hollywood Christian Croup. We felt you might like t o know
what we talked to the Hollywood stars about-J.A.L. )
I DO NOT WANT to shock you nor be sensational, however
the following statement should be made and emphasized many
times. The Bible is not primarily a religions Book! Only fifteen per
cent of the Bible deals with what is commonly called religious mat-
ters; that is, salvation, doctrines of the church, and such things.
The other eighty-five per cent of the Bible, including virtually all
of the Old Testament, does not deal with salvation, church doctrine,
and such spiritual matters, but deals with things pertaining to the
citizens of the Kingdom of God, which are indeed spiritual matters
but not "religious" matters. The Bible has been a very unpopular
84
Book, and this is not the fault of the Bible, but rather of ministers
who have left the impression that the Bible is only a religious Book,
and is only for religious people. Thus the banker, the lawyer, the
soil conservationist, the politician, and the average citizen of tlie
Kingdom of God feel there is nothing practical in the Bib'le, there-
fore they just won't read it or have any interest in it. If people
could not understand that God gave the Bible to the citizens of His
Kingdom as a guide book containing practical information, help-
ful in everyday life, then the Bible would truly be read more often,
its teachings would be followed more carefully, and the Bible would
surely become a more practical Book.
Too long, yes far too long the Bible has been abandoned in
out of the way places, its covers gathering dust, with people feel-
ing that they were somewhat ashamed to be seen with the Bible
in their hand or in a conspicuous place in the home. Vicious people
in our midst, to whom the Bible refers by the title, "the synagogue
Satan," hate the Bible, particularly the New Testament, so much
that they are doing their best to see that it is taken from the public
schools and court rooms, and the New Testament part of it barred
from being sent through the mails. Truly this is a critical hour in
which men of God should act to forestall such dastardly actions on
the part of the enemies of Jesus Christ.
So, in this crisis hour, we feel it is time to let the Bible speak.
America needs its message; Americans need the blessings that
come from obeying the teachings of this precious Book. Whether
we listen to its message now or not, one thing is dead certain--the
time is coming, and coming soon, when America will yearn for
the message of the Bible; we will listen to its vital message, and
will follow the teachings of this grand old Book. When the King
comes to take over the Kingdom of God here on earth, He will use,
of course, as a basis of His instructions to the citizens of the
Kingdom of God, the teaching of the Bible, and the laws Jf the
Kingdom of God will be found in the Bible at that time. So, then,
surely you will agree with us that the Bible is, indeed, a practical
Book, intensely useful and helpful, and should be in the hands of
every businessman, school student, and housewife, as well as in
the hands of every minister and church member, in these trying
hours when such valuaable information is needed so badly. The
following are a few thoughts that may help us to realize how prac-
tical, indeed, is the Word of God.
Farming. Rev. 22:2: In the midst of the street of it, and on
either side of the river, was there t he tree of life, which bare twelve
manner of fruits, and yielded her fruit every month: and the leaves
of the tree were for the healing of the nations. From the foregoing
Scripture, it is learned that when Christ the King, rules in His
Kingdom here on earth, and everything has been duly restored, the
farmer will get a break-the first real break in many centuries-
for we are told that the soil will be so fertile, the climate so perfect,
the moisture so well regufated, it will be possible to grow twelve
85
crops a year from the soil. We could be doing this now, if we fol-
lowed the laws of the Bible concerning soil conservation, which
call for the land remaining idle one year out of seven. But we
thought we were smart-we thought we knew more than God. We
paid no attention to His divine laws. We have worked the land
seven years out of seven, and it has become so poor that pests and
insects are devouring the crops which are grown thereon. Further-
more, we who eat the food grown from such soil are sick and weak,
because such food does not contain the necessary vitamins and
minerals to sustain these bodies of ours and keep them in tip-top
shape. So, then, if the farmer wants to grow good crops and pro-
duce healthful products, let him, first of all, turn to the Bible where.
he will find precious, valuable information concerning farming and
soil conservation.
Economics. Deut. 15: 1, 4, 5: At the end of every seven years
thou shalt make a release ... Save when there shall be no poor
among you; for the Lord shall greatly bless thee in the land which
the Lord thy God giveth thee for an inheritance to possess it: Only
if thou carefully hearken unto the voice of the Lord thy God, to
observe to d'o all these commandments which I command thee this
day. Please notice in the three preceding verses that God tells us
quite plainly we are to cancel all debts owing us from people unable
to pay at the end of each seventh year. We are also told that the
Lord will take the responsibility of repaying us for anything we can-
celed in the way of money owing us. We would also like to point
out that the Lord tells us we can be blessed and can prosper only
as we obey His divine teachings in the form of commandments,
statutes, and judgments. Again, let me say that we thought we
were smart-so smart we didn't have to have God's laws concern-
ing economics, and now where are we? Our own government has
gone in the red several billion dollars during the past few months.
It owes nearly three hundred billions of dollars, and it pays twelve
billions of dollars annually in the form of interest on its public
debts. Now, who is smart? We are certainly in a financial mess,
and conditions will get worse until we return to God's divfne law
concerning economic matters and put them into practice in our
national life. Then, and then only, will we prosper and find a solu-
tion to our economic ills in our land today:
Health. Deut. 28:58-60: 1
.f thou wilt not observe to do all the
words of this law that are written in this book, that thou mayest
fear this glorious and fearful name, THE LORD THY GOD; Then
the Lord will make thy plagues wonderful, and the plagues of thy
seed, even great plagues, and of long continuance, and sore sick-
ness, and of long continuance. Mo.reover, he will bring upon all the
diseases of Egypt, which thou wast afraid of; and they shalJ~ cleave
unto thee. The Lord tells us that if we obey His laws, as abation,
there will be no sick among us. On the other hand, if we don't, we
are told that He will put upon the Israelties ALL the diseases that
were found among the Egyptians in the days when our forefathers
86
were in bondage there in Egypt. The very fact that we have all of
these diseases in our land today, with our hospitals full ancl run-
ning over, doctors and nurses working overtime, and pharmaceuti-
cal houses turning out drugs by the millions of pounds annually, is
proof positive that we are Israel, that we have violated Gou's law
of health, hygiene, diet, and sanitation, and that He has been
honest with us, keeping His promise to put these diseases upon us
if we failed to obey His laws of health. This nation is about
twenty-seven down the list of the leading nations of the world in
regard to health, yet we have more food (not better, but more
food) than any nation, more money, and more enlightenment,
which means that we should be on top of the list of nations of the
world regarding health, and yet we are twenty-seventh down the
list. So if you want to learn something about health, hygiene, diet,
and sanitation, turn to the Bible, the world's most practical Book!
Military. Num. 1 :1-3: And the Lord spake unto Moses in the
wilderness of Sinai, in the tabernacle of the congregation, Ofl the
first day of the second month, in the second year after they were
come out of the land of Egypt, saying, Take ye the sum of all the
congregation of the children of Israel, after their families, by the
house of their fathers, with the number of their names, every male
by their polls: From twenty years old and upward, all that are able
to go1forth to war in l·srael: th'ou and Aaron shall number them
by their armies. These verses give only one of God's many military
laws He gave to Israel. He gave them to that people to be observed,
with the promise that if they observed His laws concerning military
matters, they would win every conflict in which they were engaged.
If they didn't, they would lose the conflict, being beaten badly. Our
military leaders today do not consult God's Word concerning mili-
tary matters. Instead of calling men twenty years of age, they call
them a year or two younger than that, which is a violation of God's
law. Instead of calling men only, they call women, also, giving
them the privilege, so far, of volunteering, but at least they take
them into the service. This is no reflection on the many fine girls
in the service, yet it does mean that God's plan did not call for
women being in the military service, but men only, twenty years of
age and upwards. The Bible also tells us whom to take into the
service and whom to reject, telling us to leave those who are fearful
of heart out of military service. Had we left all the nervous, weak-
hearted boys out of the draft, we wouldn't have to build so many
veterans' hospitals and spend so much money in keeping up these
boys who are broken in mind, body, and spirit. So, if our Penta-
gon officials want to know how to win the next war, how to keep
Russia from attacking us, and how to keep other such nations
fearing us, let them turn to the Word of God, where they will find
practical, helpful information regarding military matters which
cannot be improved upon by our so-called "smart men" in the mili-
tary division of our national life today!
87
Safety. Ps. 91: 1, 4, 5, 7: He that dwelleth in the secret place of
the most High shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty ...
He shall cover thee with his feathers, and under his wings shalt
thou trust: his truth shall be thy shield and buckler. Thou shalt not
be afraid for the terror by night; nor for the arrow that flieth by
day ... A thousand shall fall at thy side, and ten thousand at thy
right hand; but it shall not come nigh thee. Yes, tJhe Bible tells
us how to have safety. Our civic defense leaders would do well to
study the Bible from this viewpoint. The 91st Psalm tells us that
the Lord will give physical protection to all who look to God for it
and believe that He is able to give it to them. During World War I
the leader of a regiment in England adopted the 91st Psalm as his
Psalm of safety. He quoted it to his men daily and had prayer. We
are told not one casualty occurred in that entire regiment during
the whole war! Let us remind you again that the Bible is, indeed, a
practical Book, giving vital informaton concerning safety-first
measures, which our nation would do well to adopt and follow.
Prosperity: Would you like to get a better job? Would you like
to have a raise in salary? Would you like to have the money which
you now have go farther as you try to spend it? Would you like to
go into business? Would you like to have all the money you invest
yield a big dividend? In other words, would you like to be more
prosperous? Then turn to the Bible, which gives helpful informa-
tion along this line, to the following verses: Mal. 3:10, 11: Bring ye
all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be me·at in mine
house, and prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of hosts, if I will
not open you the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing,
that there shall not be room enough to receive it. And I will rebuke
the devourer for your sakes, and he shall not destroy the fruits of
your ground; neither shall your vine cast her fruit before the time
in the field, saith the Lord of hosts. Please keep in mind that this
law of the tithe was not given to a church, primarily, but to au en-
tire nation-that nation being Israel, from whom we have desend-
ed. The Lord promised, quite seriously, that if the nation of Israel
would obey the divine laws of God concerning tithing, He would
rebuke the insects and pestilences, giving them bumper crops year
after year and prospering them in a physical, material way. The
promise God made to them holds good for us today. If this entire
nation would tithe, we would soon be rid of our insects; pestilence
would disappear; prosperity would be here again; our public debt
would soon disappear; we would pay no interest; Bverybody would
have plenty of money; everybody would prosper, and everybody
would be happy. Why not give God's divine plan of prosperity a
real, thorough-going trial!
88
Subversives. Lev. 20: 26, 27: And ye shall be holy unto me: for
I the Lord am holy, and have severed you from other people, that
ye should be mine. A man also or woman that hath a fami~iar
spirit, or that is a wizard, shall surely be put to de1
ath: they sflall
stone them with stones: their blood shall be upon them. The Bible
gives a divine recipe for ridding a nation of its conspirators, agents
of treason, and subversives. These verses referred to tell us that
people who are posessed with demons and devils, which make it
possible for them to do things that will corrupt the minds and
activites of the people of that nation, are to be put to DEATH.
Achan, you recall, had been guilty of national treason, and the
Lord commanded Joshua and his men to take Achan from the
camp and stone him to death. What do we do today? Instead of
being this strict and applying the divine law of God to those sub-
versive in our midst (begining with FDR who recognized the god-
less, bloody regime of Russia, and Truman, who allowed this nation
to join in with the United Nations and allowed the United Nations
to become located in our country), we have linked up with the
subversives, cooperated with them, and lent money to them, in-
stead of ridding our nation of this menace by divine methods once
and for all!
May God help us all to read the Bible more, to put His teach-
ings into effect in our daily lives, and to realize once and for all
that the Bible is truly a practical Book!
Rise In Earth's Consciousness
PHYLOS
GOOD EVENING FRIENDS:
This is PHYLOS with a short message. I told you some time
ago that I was taking a spiritual census of your planet. It sur-
prised us! We did not know there were so many upon your planet
who had spiritual understanding, and who were projecting into the
etheric spiritual knowledge and spiritual messages which will brfng
about the greater manifestation, edification, and purification of
your planet. We were greatly surprised.
One-hundred and forty four thousand! Ah, that is but the
beginning. There were closer to two and one-half million. But it
reached beyond that figure very greatly. There are now upon your
planet two and one-half million people, who, perhaps, although
not in great rapport; or perhaps have not reached a specific or a
great understanding of what this is all about, yet they have reach-
ed sufficient understanding that they can project into the cosmic
the greater glory and power that you need.
So continue as thou hast been doing; for thou hast given great
power and glory to the Christ Consciousness which as you know
89
is enfolding the entire planet upon which you are dwelling at this
time. There is nothing greater. In fact, there is nothing BUT the
Christ Consciousness. However, this cannot be explained to you in
a few moments.
I was told that I would have but a few moments, so I must
leave you to other channels who will bring other messages of
hope and cheer. This is PHYLOS bidding you good night. You have
all surprised us by the enormous amount of regenerated souls who
have given their dedicated lives unto the project Operation Deli-
verance. I bless thee and leave you. This is PHYLOS bidding you
good night.
Christ Consciousness Awakening
PLATO
GOOD EVENING FRIENDS:
I have not come to you in a long time. I AM PLATO. I have
told you that I come from the Seventh Sphere and I have parked
my space ship, so to speak, in the Seventh Sphere of the Seventh
Circle that I may be here to establish upon your Earth a perfect
government about which I told you in a previous message. Yes, I
will be here until the time that you shall have a perfect govern-
ment upon your Earth. Some of you will see this government. Some
of you will not. I must give you this because it was given to me.
Some of you have wondered about the messages given to you
concerning the ascension of the body. Did I not teach long ago that
you could have perfect bodies, minds, and souls if you only tuned
to the God Consciousness.
We did not understand at that time about the Christ Con-
sciousness, but now we know it it that which I wrote and preached
long ago. Now you are coming into the awareness of the Christ
Consciousness. You are coming into the healing of your bodies,
your minds, and souls. This shall take thee upon wings of the
morning into the greatest glory that has ever come to the planet
Earth.
I must leave now for there are still others who shall come.
This has been a transmission from relay stations; and I have come
to you from my parking place in the universe and I shall remain
here for a time. I bless you, and bid you good night.
Projection of Power
AMENHOTEP IV (IKHNATOR)
HOW DO YOU DO, MY FRIENDS:
I have come by remote control, so to speak, to tell you of the
power being projected upon all peoples of the Earth, I am upon the
Great Pyramid of Gize. I told you previously, that I would stay
here until 1979. That promise still stands. I am helping to protect
the power from all channels from all parts of the universe to all
parts of the earth. It is sweeping your planet like a search light.
The pyramid is one of the foci from which this power is projected.
90
I am here with those who are helping me to project this power.
This comes as a result of your projection to us.
I wanted to let you know I was stm here. The pyramid )s the
focus upon which this power is projected.
Continue steadfast that there be no doubt in your minds as to
the messages you shall receive.
This channel shall receive messages of greater glory than pre-
viously and, like unto Peter of old, who perhaps denied not his
Savior, but those who were trying to speak unto him.
Part of the results of this night's transmissions is the result
of the projection of power which I have given to you and this
channel. Otherwise he would not have been able to visit this place
in the astral body in which he abides now. He has seen the glory
of the Estheric, the Council Chamber of the Great White Brother-
hood, and the Cosmic Brotherhood of the Interplanetary Council.
Now I leave thee. I project to thee greater power than thou
hast ever had. Thou wilt have power, power, and greater power, if
thou wilt project it to us. I in turn will project it back to thee. I bid
you all good night and bless you each and every one. This is
AMENHOTIDP IV. KEBO-SHA and BASANKA also dropped in
momentarily to extend their greetings.
Know That We Are More Powerful
Than Any Atomic Bomb
MY BELOVED DISCIPLES:
This is Jesus of Nazareth, I come to thee with great power
and glory because thou has projected to us thy love and blessings.
This channel is now in the Council Chamber. I am holding his
hand; and he shall know that I am his Savior. He shall know t:hat I
am holding thee and all of the people of the Earth in the hollow
of my hand. There is no ego about this. I have been given all power
in Heaven and in Earth to give to all people on Earth the Christ
Consciousness that shall bring them to the glory that is coming to
all.
Oh my beloved children, I thank thee tonight that thou hast
held up the hands of this channel; that thou hast held up the hands
of all of my children everywhere, that thou hast projected to us
thy love. We appreciate it more than we can tell you. What words
can I give you that will express the love we have for thee. Thou
hast loved all of us supremely, and we know that thou dost pl'oject
that love to all peoples of the Earth regardless of what condition
they are in. Continue in that love and thou shalt not be disappoint-
ed
91
Some of you were perhaps disappointed in the physical sense,
because we did not manifest to you; but not in the spiritual. Thy
spiritual beings have been lifted by this experience which thou hast
passed through. The experience of this channel through whom I
come, has been lifted onto the Seventh Heaven. He has seen things
from a greater perspective a glory than ever before.
I, place my blessings upon you and close this meeting with the
glory of the eternal Father. I bless thee and keep thee in the hol-
low of my hand, as I am keeping ALL PEOPLE upon the Earth.
I am keeping the Earth itself in the channel where it has been
placed. I shall not let it go in a sudden manner; although some
of these things must be resolved and some of these changes must
take place to purify the atmosphere, to purify the souls of men
even as this channel has been purified, and you have been purified,
my beloved ones in this room. Even the atmosphere around you is
being purified.
You have been told much about the fallout that is coming as
a result of the atomic bomb being tested again. KNOW THAT WE
ARE MORE POWERFUL THAN ANY ATOMIC BOMB! We of the
Christ Consciousness are more powerful than ANY FORCE of evil
upon your planet. I AM Commander-in-Chief of all of the space
craft gathered together from all of the galaxies to help in .this
Operation Deliverance. We have placed an additional fleet of snips
to clear the earth of this fallout, to clear the earth of all of the
evil which has befallen you.
Know that evil is in its last throws of agony. This is the
reason thou art so obcessed at times with dreams and the evil that
is surrounding you. It is like a caldron that has boiled over and is
trying to quench its own fire, but is having a terrible time. Be not
worried nor fearful for all is well with the universe and all i~ well
with thee.
This has been a glorious night for all of us and all of you.
Blessed be unto the Father of Light who has given all things into
the keeping of all of you upon the Earth and me as a channel. Know
that thou art ALL channels. There is no specific channel. Thou art
all channels through which the love of the Christ Consciousness
can be emanated to all peoples of the Earth. Keep in the straight
and narrow way. Keep the soul looking up. Keep thy bodies in care-
ful and considerate practices which have been given to theE:\ that
they shall be whole against the time they shall be needed ; thy
soul shall be needed; and all things shall be needed in the greater
operation that is soon to come. ·
I have spoken longer than I intended. I will turn you back
now to your great Teacher Rama who has been very humble in
his guidance of your group and of this channel. I bless thee and
place on hands upon thee. This is Jesus, bidding you all good night.
92
Over All Is An Abiding Spirit
IAM
THE I AM PRES:IDNCE HAS BEEN IN THY MIDST THIS
NIGHT. And I bring to thee a benediction. I AM THAT I AM and
I come unto thee bringing a message of light and cheer. For over
all thou knowest there is an Abiding Spirit. I am above the Christ;
I am above all; I am above thee and I am THAT I AM.
I have given all things into the keeping of the children of
Earth for I cannot have a manifestation were it not for you, and
you, and you on the E'arth plane. I am depending upon you; and I
am depending upon my only begotten Son. I am depending upon
all who have been given a mission on the Earth. I AM THAT I AM,
and I have come into thy midst because thou hast come to me.
Thou art indeed blessed. Hold fast, hold steady to the faith which
has been given thee.
Channel
Zelrun Karsleigh
Symbology, The Language of Correspondences
I-AM-ATON (I - AUM - ATON)
I AM the ALMIGHTY, LORD GOD OF HOS.TS. These words
are given unto the channel to speak to illustrate the Faith and
Life, as these words come forth with the flow of music, and with
the flow of the rythm of sound. May they echo and reecho
throughout all planes, because they should stand on their own
merit.
Mighty I AM is the light of the Earth. Mighty I AM is the law
that repeats through all things. I AM is authorizing a symbol to be
given unto the race, and will be explained in due time. It is known
as a symbol which is to be spoken and communicated through tlie
vital life principle, of higher mind.
Thought reaches throughout all planes through what is known
as "the language of correspondences". The correspondence of na-
ture is the language spoken of one plane in association with
another. The language of correspondences is one law-one law of
seven basic fundamental truths which are functioning withfo the
consciousness of mankind.
I AM that mighty I AM, and as that mighty I AM speaks the
WORD, it goeth throughout all my messengers! I AM THE
MIGHTY PRESENCE and that presence is divine love. Prepare
the way that this symbol may be echoed, sounded, visualized,
meditated that it may have meaning and grow in power.
. Now, may I speak to you through this word of power, I AM.
May I speak to you today that you may know what is meant by
this symbol which is to penetrate through the various levels of
93
thought. These may not come forth understandable to you, unless
you have certain vital energies flowing through the centers of the
body, the centers of the super-conscious state of mind which are
etheral in their scope.
Know the body is the temple of the living God, and the temple
is the door through which you must go if you would become liber-
ated and free. Now who would like to become liberated. Mighty
Presence, my beloved soul, my dear heart, you are of My Heart,
therefore as I come unto you, may your grace, your love, your
knowledge grow in wisdom and in power and become ONE with
Me. You are my heart and as my heart I shall call you home. Be-
loved, I speak to you through the Name of the Temple, I AM-ATON
... (I) (AUM) (ATON)
Channel
I-AUM-ATON
Be Not Found Wanting
JESUS
This is JESUS OF NAZARETH speaking to you this beautiful
afternoon. What can I say other than has been said by your teacher,
and the Commander of space craft who has been desirous to meet
you in the physical body. He has been desirous to give you words
of cheer and hope; but has been forced by circumstances, rather
than by his own volition to disappoint you in a way:
I have been with you all the way. Your channel knows this,
but he, perhaps like the doubting Thomas of old, has wondered
about many things. Now the understanding and light have shown
in greater volume into his soul, and I have been able to lift him
in greater understanding.
Nothing can be withheld from you. The universe is an open
book to thee if thou wilt only trust me, and thy Creator from
whom all power comes. He has given me power in the heavens and
on the Earth to bring about all things.
All that has been spoken this afternoon will be verified in a
very short time. I would like to give thee a little insight into that
which is to come; however it is not permitted to give you the de-
tails, for that is sealed within the seal that shall not be broken
until the time for unfoldment. Many things are surely coming
early in the year ahead.
Be prepared! Be not found wanting. Be not asleep either upon
the mountain or in the green pastures, or even beside the still
waters. Be alert! Even though thou canst sleep beside the still
waters at times, yet thy soul must be ready. Thy work must go on.
Thou must be brought into a higher vibration of understanding in
order that we will be able to receive you. Are you ready? Am I
94
ready? Ask yourself the question over and over-Am I ready to go
into a space craft, into the presence of the Hierarchy of the planets
to receive instructions at this particular time?
The time is coming soon when thou wilt be ushered into my
presence, and that of all the Teachers who have come to thee.
We will then give you messages of greater things which thou art
to do. The mission will be unfolded then.
Your mission here, even in this city is one you do not fully
understand, reman in this city, those of you who are here. You
have heard much of moving to another place. Stay where you are!
You have been put here for the purpose of bringing messages of
cheer and hope, as this channel is now giving of me to thee, as well
as all of the Great Teachers who come to you. Stay put, my belov-
ed ones. BE EXPANDEID IN THY CONSCIOUS'NIDSS, in thy area
of influence, of concentration and of meditation, so that thou
shalt be ready to go with us to the greater mission we shall give
thee when that time arrives- not many months from hence.
Watch and wait and pray with me upon the mountain; for I
come to thee once more upon the Mount of Transfiguration; and
I have again with me Elias and Moses. Why do I come each time
upon the Mount of Transfiguration? Later I will tell thee why I
come thus. Thou must be transfigured, the world must be trans-
figured. What does it mean? It means the COMPLIDTE CHANGE
of thy bodies, minds and souls into the higher octaves of space
where thou shalt go in time.
I shall always come to thee upon the Mount of Transfigura-
tion. Remember this symbol well, for thou must be transfigured!
All of nature must be transfigured. Even the universe about you
must be transfigured in order that it shall go into the New Age to
contain the greater glory comng to all who will watch and wait
with me one hour upon the Mount of Transfiguration. I pray unto
the Father thou shalt be transfigured with me. Request of the
Father to give of His love, mercy and understanding to all wlio
come into His arms. I leave you with love and blessing. I am
JEiSUS OF NAZARETH.
This is my message and my mission heire
RAMA
I see many things which will transpire upon your planet in the
very near future. I am looking, as it were, out of a window. This
window before me goes in rapid succession - the cities and
countryside of your nation. I will confine it to your nation at this
time.
You have asked a queston many times and I will try to answer
it now. As you go about your streets and visualize the teeming
mass of people in their comfortable houses you ask the question,
Why is this purging of the Earth necessary? Are these people to be
95
disturbed from their comfortable positions? Are all of these people
ignorant of what they are walking into?
They are walking into nothing .They are not cognizant of the
facts of life as we know them here; and this is one of the karmas
of your planet which cannot be escaped. So let it not concern you
too much about the so-called 'destruction which shall come. It will
be in divers places. There will be much destruction; and there will
be those who will be notified of this destruction in advance. There
will be others who will be ushered into eternity in the twinkling
of an eye. This cannot be helped.
Let me give you a little assurance however, and that is that
your beautiful city in which you reside is not completely immuned
to this destruction; but it has been placed upon the "preferred list"
so to speak of those cities which shall have very little calamity in
its wake. You are very fortunate that you live here and are pro-
jecting your thoughts into the universe. They shall be reflected
back to you.
You have been told in times past that Phylos has taken a cen-
sus of your Earth. He has also taken a spiritual census of your
city, a personal census of each person in this group, as well as
each person who shall read the transcript of this message which
I have given to you. You will know your spiritual grade very short-
ly. The spiritual grade of the city and the group will be reflected
in the karma which shall be presented to it in the very near future.
In the next four years there shall much karma take place
upon this planet. It shall be not of the peoples' own making per-
haps, but shall be a karma which is in the plan of creation and
destruction. The Creator is a creator and the Creator can also
destroy. Why does He destroy? You have been told many times
why this must come. The physical earth must be purged of its sin
and its dross the same as the spiritual man must be purged in order
to reach the spiritual heights of perfection. Your great Teacher
the Christ, has told you of this. You must try to emulate and follow
His teachings all the way through your lives~
Now I must leave for I have given you more than I had in-
tended this night. I love you and I know that you love me. I am
trying to help you. Will you help me? Me, I say "me". When I say
"me" you are helping all of the universe to reflect that light. For
after all, I am your teacher and I will reflect this into the universe;
it will go as you are raising your vibrations unto me. It will go
from me into all of the uttermost parts of the universe and at least
to all of the organizations who are helping you now. You will see
and hear more of this as time goes on.
Keep your thoughts high! Keep your vibrations high! You
cannot keep them that way at all times. We understand that, dear
ones, but look only to the Christ and let the Christ light shine
through you, in you and become ONE with God! This is a difficult
assignment. S,ome of you know how to do this, some of you do
not. Practice this. YOU MUST PRACTICE IF YOU ARE TO AT-
TAIN THE HIGH SPIRITUAL HIDIGHTS which you are striving
for.
96
This Christ light must permeate EVIDRY CELL OF YOUR
BODY. It must enthuse you; it must acelerate you. It must at times,
when you are in meditation, thrill you through and through. You
must be almost willing to relinquish this life and go with us into
the spiritual realm. This is only for times that you must do this.
This meditation should be done if you have the time each day.
Some of you do not have time to do this, and some of you are
neglecting it even though you do have the time.
So, my beloved ones, PRACTICE this meditation of the heart.
I like the affirmation which you have given: "Let the medttation
of my heart be acceptable in thy sight, 0 Lord, my Strength and
my Redeemer." Your meditations are always acceptable to the
Lord of light and to the Christ of light. You will receive much light
and inspiration if you will meditate daily upon the Christ light.
Do not meditate upon destructive things. Do not meditate
upon negative things. Make all of your thoughts positive! Malfo
all of your thoughts projected into the realm of light and you will
receive light A.ll is light - even though you know that these things
are coming - yet they are for the enlightenment of the world.
They are a light that shines in a darkened corner. You are a part
of that light. You are the essence of light. Regard yourselves as
the essence of light, the essence of the Christ Light that permeates
the entire universe and you will do great things. You will have
great things!
You will see many so-called space ships in your vicinity in a
very short time. They will not be for a demonstration of fear, but
rather for a demonstration of the fact that we are helping you and
we are here to give you encouragement and light. Think of us as
you see us - that we are filled with this spirit essence. We are
not just a physical vehicle, but a spiritual one. We are in your
atmosphere to fill you with that spiritual essence that you may
come with us.
In a very short time some of you will come with us in this
exaltation of the spirit, for a short time at least. So be hopeful and
be willing to go as you are bicl even though it may be a road that
you do not know. It may be a strange land that we are taking
you into. It may be through trouble and tribulation, it may be
through the fiery furnace; but the fire will not scorch thee. Tliou
hast been told many times that there should be no burden placed
upon your greater than you can bear. So now with these words I
bless thee.
I have not a guest tonight for I have given thee a long dis-
sertation of what shall come unto thee. How I would like to be with
thee! How I would like to dwell in thy consciousness at all times
and in all places! So now I bless thee and give unto thee the bless-
ings of all that are reflected unto me.
I see, as I scan the etheric spaces before me, that all are
watching you, all of the faces are turned this way. Isn't it a won-
97
derful thing to know that as I give you these messages all of the
faces of your teachers and your organizations are turned towards
you!
We thank you for your attention. We thank you for the vibra-
tions that you have raised unto us for we could not have given you
this message otherwise. God bless you again and all is well with
your world even though it does not seem to be such. Unto thee
Peace forever and ever. In the Name of the Christ who loves you
and has given His all that ye might receive eternal life, amen.
Amen, peace be unto thee.
Channel
Zelrun Karsleigh
so BE IT
By Muriel
How 'ro Help The Space Brothers Now
A<SLA 5 September 1960
To those who would help mankind and assist the Space
Brotherhood in this, our time of need.
1 - Look up at the sky. Any point will do.
2 - Concentrate on a single area.
3 - Send a shaft of white light from yourself to this spot as you
repeat the following:
4 - "Blessed be the God of all Creation. Accept my thanks to
you in your effort to help us."
5 - Repeat this at as many different points as you wish.
There is no limitation upon this activity.
By doing this you will release energies meant to protect us
from the severity of cataclysmic Earth upheavals which may soon
occur. Space Brothers have spoken repeatedly of their urgent need
for our cooperation. This is a simple matter to perform. You are,
therefore, requested to comply to the extent that your sincerity
dictates.
Follow this procedure at night time in the open air whether the
sky is clouded or not. Rainfall only accelerates the action.
Space Brothers will direct the energies to spots where the need
is greatest. Because of their superior knowledge of Science, we
may rest assured that their discretion can be relied upon.
Repeated trials may enable you to see these bits of energy fall
as smal sparks to the Earth. Do not look too far into the heavens.
98
The contact point will be about five or six thousand feet, no more,
above the Earth's surface.
May the blessing of the Almighty God be upon you.
-ASLA
* * * * * * *
The above was given me by ASLA who stands by to assist in
further clarification or guidance which I may be in need of in the
near future. Some time ago, he asked that he be called by his true
name which is ASLA. He explained that he used his Earth name
"Abraham" in the book, We of the New Dimension ·by Evelyn and
Will Miller, because people would enjoy associating their know-
ledge of his Biblical life with his present endeavor. I a;m deeply
grateful for his kindness.
-The Author
The Purpose of Our Plan and
Man's Need For Action
ASHTAR 17 October 1960
These messages received by Muriel are as the opening wedge
to further fulfillment. As our plan goes forward, there is need of
all those on Earth who have the ability to follow through with the
work outlined so many times by many others. I myself have given
it to many who have in no way communicated it to the world.
However, the time is near when that information will be released
to all those interested and willing to serve the New Era and its
advancement.
Now we must conserve all the necessary amount. of energy
we have to put forth a mighty revealment. When this is done no
doubt should remain as to the order of procedure.
What we do is not as important as what man of Earth will do.
It is your world and yours to 'save' to 'redeem' as you think of it.
Whatever you may realize of the importance of your own part is
not to be understood as immaterial or small in degree. It takes ALL
who are able to conform with destiny toward the end that a greater
tomorrow for mankind may dawn. The degree of service is not
measured by results you yourself see, but by the over-all need and
its working out for the future.
This is but a beginning. The whole focus is upon rallying man-
kind to assure enough of a majority who are willing to undertake
this vast effort.
The fact that the wherewithall for normal existence in the
cataclysmic upheaval may be destroyed indicates there must be a
consideration for the common lot. We will see to it .that all sup-
plies are forthcoming on the basis of what is essential. Food, cloth-
ing, and shelter will be yours without stint. That is entirely pos-
sible.
99
Whatever scientific advancement is made then will depe::.id on
an entirely different approach. God given powers in 'nature', as
you call it, are abundant as always for your use. Man will of neces-
sity have it to do with as he had in the past ages when this know-
ledge was prevalent. The negative uses of it must be blotted out
forever to insure against the condition reoccurring which is now
present.
Great is the promise and great is the assurance man must
make for himself that this endeavor bear fruit befitting to every
man - the son of God. Were this to fail, all would be lost for another
cycle of years amounting to thousands. Then the way would be
opened again.
The first time this opportunity was given there were those on
Earth who gave a negative aspect to its fulfillment. There followed
that same pattern again and again over the course of ages. More-
over, there are many examples of this same action on other planets.
It is not unusual but, in our solar system it cannot prevail again.
Great would be the loss to all should it be so. We will not retro-
grade, but stand still marking time until you of Earth catch up to a
degree that you may share God's greatness with us.
As for negative entities being let remain on E'arth, there has
been much controversy on that point. There will be fewer of them
and far more intelligent people aware of how to work with them
than before. No matter how it ends, in the very near future, there
will be greater assistance than ever before given mankind from
us, the Christ Jesus, and all Ascended Ones. With this aid, nothing
should fail if mankind on Earth wills it to be perfect. .
So with our deepest love and abiding faith in mankind, we give
you our assistance. Thank you and goo'd night.
lam,
ASHTAR
Awaken! Have No Fear
17 October 1960
I am MONKA.
The time allotment is not to be considered at all. What is given
is for those who comprehend the urgent need upon mankind. If all
cooperate in a great effort to contact or comply with instructions
given here in, there will be made a great step forward.
We have alerted many who have taken our utterances ta have
a personal meaning to themselves alone. It is more than personal.
Every word worth telling one is worth telling all those who would
heed.
Inasmuch as this criterion is applied to the reader of this
booklet, it behoov·es all those in their turn to awaken others.
The sincerity of the giving and placing this information be-
fore you has been without reproach. There is little gained by doubt.
It is better to accept of it what you can than to project a negative
100
thought .or word of doubt. We do not command but rather warn
and define your needs for the near future.
Many have been alerted to the coming wave of clarification.
It is to come to the United States in two distinct steps. First for
the western area, then for the eastern. The latter event will be
consumated at the time of the great cleansing. This may be about
1953 as all seers recognize. Our own date is not the same due to a
difference in time accounting. Be it so, all will know what to ex-
pect in cataclysmic action by then.
There is a vast Armada of Space craft awaiting your time of
trouble. Our numbers increase daily. Some one has estimated the
number to be 35 million craft of various types and uses. All Solar
Systems in our galaxy have responded as one. Whatever you do
toward preparation, bear in mind that you have a friend above in
the expanse of Space hearing your call for help. Your prayers
addressed to God are heard by us.
We have a set up which detects your thinking as well as oral
expression. It is connected with a center serving your geographical
area. There are many who dedicate their time and effort to this
type of reception. Should you doubt this, we have no way to per-
suade you. When the time of your need is upon you, a prayer to
God will be heard by us and we will respond with swift and direct
answer.
Our craft will hover a:bove you or alight on the ground. Our
doors will be opened that you may step in and be transported to
safety.
Have no reticence or fear. If you have others dear to you, we
will accept your direction to them. This is very simple to us with
our instruments and precision of action.
What ever you do, have faith that your life will be spared you
for further service to mankind. The need for every individual by
us is great. You will work with us to glorify the purpose of God in
all of his greatness.
A Sanctuary has been constructed for y;ou. There will be no
need for more than the personal comforts you are accustomed to.
Doctors, nurses and those of us who heal the sick and wounded are
there. May you come with assurance and faith in the Heavenly
Father .of us all.
You who come by automobile will bring camping needs. There
is a large building for assembly, places for cooking, facilities for
bathing, and sanitary appointments. No one need be discomforted.
I now take my leave. Blessed be the Lord God in his Manifest-
ations. Thank you. Good night.
I a:m,
MONKA
101
The Great Cleansing
29 October 1960
I am ASHTAR.
There are not very many people who want more than a gen-
eral assurance of their own safety in the oncoming disaster. Many
liken this attitude to one of selfishness. Others consider those who
are rescued should be worthy of salvaging for future service to
mankind. These two points of view are neither right nor wrong.
All mankind has a life expectancy of normal length. There is
no power on Earth capable of swaying the Karmic destiny of any
living person. That is entirely in the hands of the Creator and
those who keep the guardianship over incarnate souls. They are
not to be denied their God-given authority.
Much that seems discordant or contrary to Divine purpos.e
many times has a subtle way of presenting a sudden and unac-
countable change of direction. The life of an individual may at any
time be suddenly altered in a manner mysterious and wonderful.
The chance that this may occur in a time of stress is more likely
than not. Therefore, deny not anyone a right to the understanding
which might be his.
When others lean on you for the guidance only you can give,
then give all the light of your knowledge. Our hearts are never
warmer than when giving good to others, be they inclined to
malign or bless the giver.
What we ourselves think is only by and large akin to resent-
ment or confusion when faced with decisions for or against others.
It is best to have no part in any decision than to risk the taking of
one chance from a worthy person. While others may languish
away their opportunity to do good, some have been using every
second of that time toward making the need for deliverance felt in
all people.
Much time and energy is needed in this task. Only those free
to do this work should be challenged by its perfect accord with
Bible teachings and prophecy. When there occurs diversified effort,
there occurs like results.
Always those who feel obligated to a higher sense of service
come forward to await instruction. These few can and do clarify
the thinking of mankind and bring into focus the plan for Earth's
salvation.
The negative forces of Satanic origin continuously work
against the spreading of truth. Theirs is a last stand taken to
wrench this Earth from the future glorification of its existance.
Whatever they do will not profit them longer than it takes Nature
to revolt against ungodliness.
The blessing of this cataclysmic upheaval is that it cle.:mses
the Earth of negation. Whereas this action has taken place six
times in the past, man has only one on record, that of Noah. In that
report, there is scant accounting of the true facts. There was then
102
a cleansing by water which left Earth somewhat imbalanced. But
this time all will be corrected.
If there need be mentioned how this is to be, I give the follow-
ing with authority. The interior of the Earth is not hot, but cool.
Heat is near the surface where oxidation and friction take place.
There is a vast layer of gaseous matter which presses outward to
help maintain the rotundity of the planet. The Earth, as you know,
is not spherical at present, neither is it balanced. The poles are at
variance as to weight. When the stability is accomplished, these
discordant facts will be rectified.
However there will be much of Earth's surface left unscathed.
Land masses will rise and seas will readjust to meet a balance.
Much water will leave the planet due to volcanic heat and up-
heaval. This water may form a temporary vapor in the atmosphere.
In time, this will vanish due to precipitation or absorption.
The complexity of the atmosphere can be changed by us very
easily through our process of ionization which simply means a re-
adjustment of molecular structure. We have done this in the San
Francisco Bay area, in Los Angeles, and many other densely popu-
lated places where foreign particles were giving the atmosphere
an unusual character not beneficial to man of Earth. Our "green
fire balls", as you call them, have clarified vast quantities of atomic
fall-out which w.ould otherwise have meant sicknes or death to per-
sons in such areas.
We have also shown samples. of our adroitness in handling
weather. At one time, San Francisco was swept by heavy winds.
We changed temperatures in outlying areas and caused a cessation
of the storm.
When there is need, and there certanly will be, we are pr8par-
ed to seed the Earth with appropriate vegetation. T.ogether with
the color rays and newness of the land, much understanding will
be given you. Our experiences date back millions of years. Com-
plete records are available to us which cover any and all possibili-
ties which planets fall heir to.
Whatever mankind has need for, we will willingly provide.
Your acceptance will be our joy. That is all the Brotherhood can
plan for the moment. As other needs aris·e, or needs that may de-
viate from those that we know, there will be answers coming from
all parts of the galaxy to assist you.
To assure your role in this activity, your own mental and spirit-
ual acuteness will then be unfettered. You will be able to advance
as rapidly as you will to do so. That area of endeavor is under
another command than mine. My work is only that of rescue and
giving .of assurance and understanding.
Whatever man makes of his endeavors, he must know that it is
done with the blessing of the Creator. The Lord Jesus is patiently
biding his time. So near is it that his spiritual cohorts are now
gathered in the great Crystal Craft which your Bible calls the New
Jerusalem, and are awaiting the eventuality of change.
That is all for this evening. Bless you,
ASHTAR
103
Journey To The Sanctuary
-ALAN 10 November 1960
This time may be upon humanity in a few short months. Our
time is nearing and we know that it can be shortened at any mo-
ment. The best we can say is that all is in readiness from our point
of view. We are alerting all who seek knowledge at this hour.
Your former instructions are as good now as when they were
given. There are many who wish to know how it is arranged.
We have appointed people along the route to give you assist-
ance in the way of gasoline, food, and other comforts or needs. We
ask that you be on the alert for a sign that will be given you when
your need is at hand. On the way, feel free to call on us at any
time. Mormans are ready with food and will have gasoline trucks
on the road. No one is to fear the outcome. If your car is unable to
continue, we will remove it bodily to the meeting place. Many are
to be alerted in full time to depart. They will see to it that all whom
they have in mind are told as well. This is time consuming but will
be reliable. When the alert is given, we will give signs of hovering
near and other such warnings as will be recognizable by those in
contact with us.
When you do stop to consider all the work and love spent
upon this endeavor, it will warm y,our heart to know that we now
have 50 million people from all parts of the Earth in line for assist-
ance.
We would caution you to be alert to any odd manifestations of
nature or whatever s·eems to be unusual. Many parts of the world
will be looking for different signs commonly unknown to them,
which might be usual in your own area. It will be about three years
before the final triumph will occur. (1963)
These Sanctuaries (the Valleys of Protection) are all guarded
by our special light against shock, or other natural calamity such
as: floods, winds, or what have you.
Question: What will happen to the things we leave behind in
the three year period of waiting?
Answer: The coast will be hit first and you already know what
that will be like.
Question: There is a new road, a short cut, from Texas Creek
to West Cliffs which is 23 miles long. Is it not possible to avoid the
longer route through Canon City over the Royal Gorge area?
A LAN: I will check with those in charge of that area.
After he and David had been gone for several minutes, I went
to join them. As I looked down upon the highway, I saw a moun-
tain crumble and cover the road in two places. I came away imme-
diately and waited about five minutes longer.
Answer: A LAN: They are holding the route you were given.
Stay with it.
104
Etherealization of Body Structure
ALAN 31 October 1960
The process of etherealization is not a simple one. There are
many facets which mankind has not comprehended as yet in the
search into medical knowledge. It is much more complicated than
the treatment of disease as you have attempted in the use of X-ray.
We have a special mechanism which pulls in etheric rays from
the abundance in atmosphere and space. This ray or qualified
energy is not useful unless acted upon by a sort of transformer
which slows down the activity of the ray. This ray is then scattered
as a perfume is when permeating the air. By making it available
simultaneously in every direction, we can condense or expand its
effect to any desired degree.
As the light energy permeates the bodies cellular structure it
removes all dross or unqualified matter. That is to say, any fluid
or matter not needed by the cell itself can be neutralized and re-
moved from the body by making its vibratory rate higher or lower
as the case needs be. Thus it is removed and taken in its new form
to be used elsewhere in space. In other words, it goes back into the
"melting pot" to be drawn forth later if its particular quality is
needed for another purpose. Nothing once created is ever lost.
If the body of a man is full of dross material, this hinders his
feeling of and receptivity to solar energy meant for his good.
Therefore, diet is paramount to every individual. Superfluous fat
cells must be reduced also. This process is not painful, but time
consuming. The amount of fat cells necessary to human structure
varies in degree.
So many factors enter into the forming of fatty tissues that
a greatly detailed study is given each individual. His diagnosis is
very accurate. We then agree to extract the components of these
cells as before described.
Other cells of diseased tissue, etc., are removed in like man-
ner. The action is often so instantaneous that a so called "miracle
of healing" is wrought.
Again light as you see it, is not the true light used by us. :B.Jach
color drawn from the atmosphere bears a distinct value. Wrong
color is never given since all is understood. When color and light
are combined, there is perfect harmony and perfect result.
By the time the cellular body is prepared, the mental compre-
hension is raised. Likewise, all the senses are made more acute
until the body and mind of the individual are operating at a pro-
perly balanced unit. Diet then maintains this balance.
As for diet, there are no end of combinations chemically suited
to body maintenance and growth. Repair, as you term it, is not
necessary. When a cell dies, it etherealizes and does not corrupt
the blood stream. The liver and other glands work to complete a
balance in nature. Their operation then becomes normal and <rreat
energy is poured into the body by them. So much could be s:t.id in
105
this one area, that it would seem futile to attempt it here. Suffice
it to say that cellular balance is reached. Impurities cannot exist
in the blood stream under these circumstances.
At the Sanctuary, numbers of persons may receive the benefits
of our rays simultaneously thereby making better use of them.
Other healing can be done. Broken bones, lacerations, and the like,
yield almost instantly to our treatment.
If one is to be taken on a long interstellar flight, the prepara-
tion is simple. Just submit yourself for a few minutes to the light
treatment and you are ready to step onto many other planets with
no difficulty whatsoever. Our devices measure the conditions on
each planet, and we adjust our instruments to that. This is simple
and you may foel no fear or hesitancy about it.
The wearing of jewelry during treatments is not advii:;able.
Metals oftne impair perfect transmission of these rays. Sometimes
burns are experienced where there are metals contacting the skin.
So we say wear no metal when undertaking this treatment. After-
wards, if you wish, you may resume wearing pins but no bracelets,
necklaces, or rings. The encircling metal destroys the vihration
in a way.
The treatments are given mostly in our space craft or in ;.treas
especially prepared for it. The canopy of protection mentioned
above, is in us·e to exclude weather, excessive heat, or cold.
Prepare for the joy of life in its fullest expression when you
come to us.
Thank you
ALAN
Zoser Reducing Diet
27 August 1960
Take the juice of one lemon diluted with two parts of water on
arising. Fast then until the ·body craves food. Then be sure to eat
fruit for the first meal. No nut meats then.
For the mid-day repast, use many varieties of vegetables as
nearly raw as possible. Select the ones most agreeable to your
digestive processes and be sure of the vitamin content. Select those
of a cleansing nature giving bulk as desired.
The evening meal may contain meat for a tinie until the desire
for meat is no longer felt. Then the more substantial root vege-
tables should be taken.
Use no oils unless as a dressing. Olive oil is best.
No dairy products should be eaten. There will be a vast change
in the whole body composition soon, but be patient.
For the time being, take no coffee or stimulating drinks.
A reasonable amount of thought should be given to overeat-
ing. Do not go hungry. Several meals a day are better than over-
eating when very hungry.
* * * * * * *
ZOSIDR was an Egyptian Pharoh - 1412 to 1370 - who brought
the method of healing by Light to his people.
106
"Sky Quakes"
-ELENA 16 October 1960
I am from a Space Craft near your area. We send clarifyi;ng
vibrations from one direction then another. To you, the stars seem
to be in motion as you look through your atmosphere.
Atmospheric debris of any sort is removed. It either fails to
Earth or goes where it belongs. This is not done frequently.
Question: Would that have caused our unusually warm ·weath-
er these last few days?
Answer: Yes. The sun's rays are more able to penetrate to the
Earth after this action. That should cause more noticeable heat.
Question: Saine have asked if they should bring their jewelry
precious to them?
Answer: Bring all beautiful things that will not encumber you.
NOTE: ELIDNA is a Marsian. She is associated with A LAN
and his activities.
Earth Beautiful
ASLA 31 October 1960
Were that life on earth could be seen in the light of our under-
standing! There is a vast miracle of beauty unnoticed by most
Earth people. The bird's song, the flower's gift of lovely perfume
and color, and all the sweet thoughts of people present a picture
of great beauty the like of which pleases the Greatest Master of
of us all. His work is divine, as you say, and given freely to all.
That Man has not realized the fullness of its benefits is deplorable.
So much suffering and error comes from lack of seeing the small
facets of God's love.
The time of awakening is near. All nature will respond to your
love and heartfelt joy. You will see a miracle of bloom, a copious
display of verdure and fruits in abundance. It is like unto the Gar-
den of Eden come again on Earth. There will be no distress of any
sort once the wholehearted response of the people is forthcoming.
This awakening to a new Earth and its possibilities wm con-
sume much of our earnest effort. We plan to show all those inclin-
ed to agricultural pursuits a great understanding of the :use of
light and energies present as always in the air about you. These
essences are for your use. The way to use them will be known and
practiced. No Earth man to our knowledge has thus far perfected
the method we use. Much to be done will be of your own effort.
The way to do it is our gift to Earth. We give freely in Love and
ask the Blessing of Almighty God in all we do.
Blessed is he that gives and he that receives. In the one act is
the perfect balance of God's Will.
This is my own contribution to your book.
-ASLA
107
The Days of Eternity
-MARY 4 November 1960
The days of eternity are upon all mankind. The eternity of
doubt, the eternity of fear, the eternity of wrong doing. The way
of light is not downward to Earth. My helpfulness to mankind is
not yet given heed. Whatever you do for the future of mankind
must stem from the heart not the mind. There is a great difference
in concept between mental awareness and heart awareness.
The Living God is everywhere in all you do. What makes the
balance in all nature is His way. What we do in our efforts for His
sake is to bring about a truer expression of faith in God and a
clearer understanding of the way toward Him. It must follow
through to an end of time set for its completion.
Many trials and errors ensue depending on the effort put forth
and the exterior interferences. A tree must grow, a plant must bear
its fruit, and man must grow toward the divine culmination of a
oneness with God. If the path toward completion is roughened by
any action independent of God's will, then error has been created.
This must be eradicated by repetitions.
This is expressed in all living matter. A stone lives as well as
flora or faune. The minerals evolve more slowly, the planet king-
dom with less effort, and man much more rapidly than all other.
What is being said is, that all have a rountine growth and
development. When man was given free will he was a special crea-
tion of God. The reason for his creation was to provide a living
counterpart which in time may come to assume God-like powers.
When this is achieved a great potential of God-power is realiz-
ed. The use of this power is vast. So vast that little comprehension
is realized even by us who are near to the Throne.
If mankind is ever to express this power, there will be need
for assistance.
NOTE: The above is shared with you for the truth it contains.
It is relevent to all time. These concepts should be kept in mind by
those who endeavor to bring into effect that which we have re-
peatedly expressed in the Lord's prayer throughout the centuries.
- The Author
Those Blessed
22 November 1960
Blessed are the meek in spirit, for they shall inherit the King-
dom of God.
Blessed are they who serve truth.
Blessed are they who carry Light to all darkness.
Blessed are they who share God's gift of plenty.
Blessed are they who come when the call to service is given.
Blessed are they who bear the kindness of His Will. They are
His children.
-JESUS
108
1962
HERALDS
REVELATIONS
OF THE NEW AGE
You are now coming forth into a new age, into a new arc of
light that shall raise the vibration of the planet and restore order
out of chaos - the Earth made new and also the heavens around
the Earth - cleansed, purified and raised in vibration. The electro-
magnetic field around the Earth shall be that element in which you
shall live for the coming age. You are among those who asked
to be in the harvest, the reaping of the fruits of that which began
long ago. You made a covenant to be on the Earth at this time to
fie a part of ushering in a golden dawn, a golden age. It is a great
privilege. You are as the pioneers of a new country. You are
among those who long ago entered into the promised land in the
days when the children of Israel were led out of bondage, out of
Egypt and through the land of fruit and honey - into the promised
land of Canaan.
Now a great cycle is ending. The Aquarian Age is at hand and
a great exodus is taking place. Consciousness is being accelerated
and a transmutation will come into effect. You are part of the great
nucleus of Earth which will usher in a new age and that which pian
has been praying for so many hundreds of years - a Kingdom of
Heaven upon Earth - brought into manifestation. You are part
of this great event. Whether it be in this third dimension or in the
fourth dimension, it still is a part of the great work at hand, for all
shall be changed and the paradise state shall again be in evidence.
As you learn to receive instructions within you, then you shall
be guided as to your mission and to the part that you will take in
this great event. It is the greatest drama of many ages. Civiliza-
tions rise and fall; ages come and go; worlds are brought into
existence and go through stages until finally a time of fertility
comes to pass. Life comes upon each world as it comes of age in
season. Many worlds are in communication with one another and
it is in order just as much as the communication between your
countries. The screen is being lifted and many things shall be re-
vealed; mysteries shall be cleared up in time to come, and as it was
given, "the Spirit shall be poured out upon all flesh at the time
of the end of the age." So there should be great hope and anticipa-
tion.
The young people of today have a great challenge to meet.
They can conform to the habits and customs of the past or they
can enter into new horizons. A great privilege is theirs and a great
advancement of consciousness is in the world today. The youth who
109
are now coming into the world are those who have had hundreds
of incarnations in other life experiences with the memory of these
deeply imbedded within them, in the consciousness, in the atomic
structure that is part of the eternal body in the making, becoming
perfected. The soul memory carries with it all these experiences,
and as many have come back for a last incarnation in this great
age they have learned to identify with all consciousness and have
worked through many karmic debts, have recognized that the Mas-
ter Jesus took upon his consciousness the karmic debt of the
world. He identified with man, giving him the opportunity to be
lifted through his consciousness, his light and his oneness with the
Father, to find the way back to the divine heritage.
And so there are those with a keenness of mind, a soul aware-
ness, a great depth of understanding - the chosen ones coming
back into the Earth at the time for the harvest to be reaped. You
are among the fruits of this great age and as you search and try
to find answers for the complex problems of your world, you will
find they will not come to you from institutions of learning; they
will not come from the high and mighty names of men of the
world. They will come in the simple understanding within your
heart as you sincerely seek the truth about your Creator and the
divine plan and purpose for your life.
Ask the ONE who knows. Ask your Creator. Ask the one who
is intermediary - the Lord of the planet. Has he not said, "Lo I am
with you always; I shall lead you through green pastures; I shall
walk beside you"? You do not have to follow any man made set of
rules nor doctrines nor creeds. That which you find to which you
respond will be right for you and you may find light in many places.
When you go to worship God, whether in Church or Tabernacle,
Synagogue or Temple, you go offering yourself and rededicating
yourself to your God, thinking of what you can give to Him and to
your fellow man. Then you shall receive wherever you go. nut if
you enter trying to get all that you can get from a given place or
group, church or minister, you will find nothing but emptiness
and unhappiness. Go to give, to serve, but for your true relation-
ship with your Creator, for your true answers be still, turn within
and ask the ONE who knows - the God self within you. You are
made in the divine image and you have all of the attributes vf God
within you, the potentials to become lords of other planets, other
worlds.
You are walking now in the ways of learning, of growth, of
trial and error, and in the time measure you can vacillate, yc11 can
stumble and fall and rise again; you can make mistakes, you can
be forgiven, you can forgive you can learn to love - all in the time
measure in the third dimension where there is room to stumble
and fall.
When you rise into higher realms you do not have the room
(as we might put it) to make mistakes. There you will visualize,
110
project a thought, create and it is there. So work out your problems
while in the schoolroom of Earth and learn that it is a serious
responsibility and yet a joyful one.
Most of you - the youth of today are growing into maturity.
You have the Earth in your hands. You have the responsibility of
restoring order out of chaos and you will be given the power and
creative energy, the divine energy to do this, for the Spirit within
you shall take dominion. As you allow yourself to be vessels of ser-
vice for your Creator, the world shall be made new through you.
Many shall take part. Many are called but few are chosen. Those
who would serve would be about their Father's business. In learn-
ing to come into alignment (body, mind and soul) , you will find
true purpose in living. You will find that the divine plan will oper-
ate through you.
As your body, your entity - your house - comes into this solid
foundation you shall know that it is in order. You shall know that
in perfect accord it is a house standing on a firm foundation,
whereas a house divided against itself shall fall. Where the body,
mind and the soul are going in diffrent directions, in different pur-
pose and aim, there is conflict and pulling apart and tearing down.
Then the body becomes diseased and the mind has many conflicts,
complexes and much instability - the emotions shatter the body
and mind, the soul is submerged and the purposes of the soul are
defeated.
But with determination, with the will holding true to the pur-
pose of the soul, the astral self being put down, then you are the
master of your fate, of your destiny and you determine that your
body, your mind, your soul shall be as one with on€ purpose, with
one aim, and your house is not divided against itself. Then shall all
fall into harmony - an integrated being that can manifest effective-
ly. Put first things first. Know the true values of life. You will find
that many desires of the world will fall behind you for you are in
the world but not of it.
You are not actually Earth beings. You are sons of God walk-
ing the Earth with a mission to fulfill. Having forgotten, you are
now becoming aware, are being reminded, are having revelation
come to you gradually as you seek unfoldment. And as you open
the spiritual centers of your being (the endocrine glands, ':LS we
have explained before - your phychic centers - pschye, the soul);
as these are opened you become aware, your consciousness is ex-
panded, you have understanding of the soul. Many things will be
revealed unto you. You will become adept at thought transference.
All things will be brought into line as you choose the life and des-
tiny that you would have.
You can let your work be destructive, you can let your life be
in vain if you so choose, or you can live for the glory of the God
who created you. If there be no God, how did you arrive? Can you
create another without the Spirit and Power of God? Can you
111
bring life into a dead form? It is the breath of God that is life and
consciousness. The satisfaction that you crave will come as you
learn to fulfill a true purpose in life, to be constructive in your
thoughts, in your words and in your deeds rather than destructive.
You have identified in ages past, you have taken the name and
nature of your Lord, so be sure that it is not taken in vain, but use
it for constructive re-creation upon the Earth.
Know that all things that come before you in the law of cause
and effect, will bring to you that which you have set in motion. You
have heard the saying, "As ye sow so shall ye reap." It is true that
you choose and set in motion a cause that shall bring about an ef-
fect, a result which shall be according to the degree and strength
and purpose of that which you set in motion. This is the law and
that which comes to you is the result of your past choices. Day by
day as you become aware, you may bring about a modification of
certain effects coming into the future. As you change your attitude,
your perspective, your reactions to life and have a purpose, a goal
that is worthy of that which you are, never forget that you are not
just another animal body or human being but a child of God in the
holy temple - that body in which you live and move and have your
being according to the life which your Creator has given you.
Let all that you do be constructive, be worthy, be of positive
action and let your attitude be such that you will bring about a
good harvest of that which you are now sowing. Each day you are
setting in motion a new cause that will bring about a result or an
effort that you will later have to meet. So be careful of vour
thoughts, of your choices, of your actions. Look back upon your
past only to the extent that you learn the lessons of life through
the errors of the past so that you see and rectify mistakes. Forgive
self; do not hold condemnation or guilt but move forward with
new intent and let each day be a new cycle of awareness that shall
bring result that you would be happy to meet. For you will meet
yourself each day along the road according to that which you were
in previous days. If you would find happy results a year from now,
then be that today which you would like to meet tomorrow.
Remember that whatever you are now, that you will meet as you
go forward. Each day, so shall it be.
It is not so important what you do or what comes to you as to
your reaction toward that which comes, for as you react you are
setting in motion a new cause and effect, a new attitude t;:>ward
your fellow man, toward your responsibility, toward all that you
have to meet. If you have resentment toward some, intolerance,
anger or hatred, you shall bring that ·back unto yourself. But if
your fellow man does unto you in ways that make you unhappy,
you must learn to forgive and go forward with the determination
to love your fellow man and to do unto him as you would have
him do unto you, for that is what you shall receive. Yes, your
Golden Rule.
112
Learn to meet all things in calmness, in patience and love, for
universal love is paramount. This shall cast out all fear, anxiety,
all things of negative nature. We have explained in lessons past
how the actual change of chemistry in the body takes place through
the attitudes within you - glands actually secreting that which
would affect the chemistry of your body, changing you physically
and mentally. As you fear, poison is secreted into the body. As you
love, the glands secrete that which would counteract the poison
of the glands of fear, literally changing the chemistry of the body,
bringing about a quickening of the spirit, a purifying of the body.
So learn to let the attitudes of your being come from the choice
of your mind and will and soul purpose. Then all will fall into place.
The body and mind will be at ease and peace will be in the soul and
you shall live according to the divine plan. Practice this and you
shall find joy and happiness.
Have hope for the new dawn. Have no fear because of the
changes coming, for you are told ahead that you shall choose and
shall be masters of your destiny and that you shall be shown and
guile as you open for that guidance. As you seek the help of
guardian angels beside you, of divine hosts that shall come, they
surround the planet, come in celestial ships, helping even to clear
the atmosphere around the planet. They even counteract the radio-
activity sent forth from the bombs of your making of Earth - many
things that man would do to poison, to destroy. There are those to
help undo the damage caused by man, and as man opens to guid-
ance and higher realms, he shall be taught and shown how to
protect himself. As he learns to open to the divine self within, then
shall he find that the solution to all lies deep within the center of
his own being.
Never forget this: Wherever you go you are never alone. Your
God is with you. You cannot get away because you are the image
of God and He sustains His own. He gives you free will. You may
close the door and shut this out but the unpardonable sin (as it is
called) is shutting out the Power of the Holy Spirit of God that is
in your being. This shuts off your Life Source. But as you open the
door and allow the Spirit to move freely in your being and take
dominion, then shall you know how to live consciously in whatever
plane or dimension you find yourself through your choice and your
growth.
You shall find that there will be a great change of vibration
.. around your Earth. You shall be more and more sensitive. You
shall find that in the coming years there will be an intensification
that will raise your consciousness until the revitalizing of the cells
of your body shall transform. As you become used to the swiftly
changing vibration, entering into a new frequqency, as it were,
you shall be living in a new element; in the fourth dimension - that
paradise state around your Earth. You shall be changed in the
twinkling of an eye as the transmutation takes place. You are
113
gradually changing and there shall be, finally, the moment of
changing over completely into the new dimension. This shall be
rapid.
You are being taught to receive telepathically so that you re-
ceive the call, for as it is given in your Holy Writings, "There shall
be some in the field - two together - one shall be taken, the other
left. Home shall be upon the housetops". When the call comes, you
shall be teleported. Return not into your house, but obey. It is that
which is coming to pass. The celestial ships surrounding the Earth
shall be ready to lift up those becoming aware of the changing of
the poles, the shifting of the poles. The Earth goes through a cer-
tain cycle and change requiring some days for stabilization. Even
as those were taken into the Ark at the time of the flood, so shall
many be taken into celestial ships. The divine intervention shall
take place when the children of darknss move against the children
of Light.
The struggle for the habitation of the Earth has been going
on and it is shown in your Holy Writing who shall be the victor.
The Earth is being preserved and there shall be divine intervention
of celestial ones coming as man in his free will asks for help from
Divine Source. Read in your Holy Writings and you shall see the
promises given to the Earth. It shall be preserved and many of you
shall see this taking place. That given to you beforehand is to give
you courage and hope, to know that in the divine plan all are cared
for. All will have the truth revealed to them if they seek and desire
it.
And so, as the ships come into the atmosphere of the Earth,
be not afraid but know that the promise of the host coming ill the
clouds and the signs in the skies at the end of the age, is the
mercy of your Creator to help you preserve your Earth until you
have fulfilled your mission, until you have lived this Golden Age
and all has been demonstrated unto the Earth - the way of life
upon the Earth as it is under the human will, and the way life can
be on Earth when it is under Divine Will. Then shall the choice be
given again at the end of the thousand years. ·
You shall see and hear of many more ships coming in your
skies in the coming year. Man had to be brought into familiarity
with such so that he may learn not to see the reflection of his own
fear as he looks at others coming in love and assistance. Man has
been the victim of warring and of fearing until he has no trust left
in his neighbour or his guardians or in himself. He must establish
a trust in a diven host coming to help, to intervene and to sustain.
All will be well. The Earth is going through a time of travail to give
birth to a new Earth. Then shall there ·be peace on Earth. So look
forward to many changes that shall bring a;bout that for which you
have prayed.
Let the spirit take dominion within you. Let the soul of you
step forth and manifest. That is the Light of the World. You shall
be those who choose the moment for the kingdom to be brought in
because groups and individuals such as you over the Earth are
114
those who shall become aware and step forth in the spirit that they
are, that you are. Then shall the Kingdom be established upon
Earth. It could not be told when this would happen for it lies in
the choice and the free will of man as to the time that he would
realize and step forth in new life.
Have hope and good cheer for you shall be given assistance.
There shall be peace on Earth. But love within the hearts of men
will be the weapon and not the missiles of your air. Let love grow
in the hearts of the young for as they mature they shall be ruling
the world and they shall know that strength and power and might
will not come from manmade weapons but from within the heart
and soul of each one. Let peace and hope and love that shall rule
the world begin within you.
Peace be with you. The youth of today will lift the world
through the expanded consciousness and love and soul understand-
ing as they open to the spirit within. Fear not but trust and go
forth to serve your God for the responsibility of the world lies
within your hearts. You are the hands and feet and expression of
God the Creator in the physical world. Let Him work through you.
He creates, recreates, manifests in all dimensions through his
Creation. You are a creation. Let it be done through you for His
glory. Let love and peace be within your hearts and purposes be for
your God and not for selfish gain. Be not idle but be busy about
your Father's business and He shall do all things through you, even
as through the Master. For he said, "All that I do, you can do also".
You were living at that time and were hearing his words.
Believe. Let it be manifested through you. Many upon
Earth will be with you in the oneness of Spirit as the Kingdom
comes into manifestation and you again live in the paradise state.
Blessings be upon you for you are now the hope of the world.
Send forth love, energy and compassion. Direct it to a point
of need whether it be the restoring of the body or mind, or to bring
peace to the souls of those in distress. Visualise and direct mental-
ly the power. Send it forth to a point of focus. Give out that you
may receive more. Be an open channel and send forth power for
the healing of the Nations.
THE IMPERSONAL WAY.
115
GOD SPEAKS
The average individual, yea even the average professing
Christian, acts and lives as though God were non-existent because
we tend to allow the carnal things of life to distract us. When God
placed man on this and other planets He did what every car manu-
facturer does, gave us a Book of Instructions. Knowing the perver-
sity of human nature, although unknown to the average individual,
He speaks in different channels.
Most people think the Bible is the only method-but such is
not the case. The Great Pyramid of Ghizeh, the Bible in Stone in
the Land of Egypt, Davidson discovered speaks to mankind.
Davidson, by the way, discovered that the Great Pyramid had a
message which is identical with the message of the Scriptures. He
was a non-believer when he began his studies-the Bible meant
nothing to him~but he became an ardent Christian after study-
ing the marvels of the Great Pyramid.
I had a similar experience. Brought up in the Church of Eng-
land I learned to despise them and the language they used. Around
1906-7 I had to go back and retrieve the Bible I had despised be-
cause it brought to mind my Sunday School days when I learned
the Bible. Here was the great science of astrology telling me exact-
ly what I heard in my Sunday S,chool days, and yet we find preach-
ers condemning astrology. If they really studied the science--and
it is a science-they would never do that. So you see we have three
methods in which God speaks to us; Astrology, the Bible and the
Pyramid.
At the back of all that God speaks to man through inspiration.
Where do you think all the wonderful inventions come from! They
come from God's storehouse. Let's go back further. How was the
Bible written? How did we get it? God spoke to His prophets who
were sensitive enough to hear His voice. Matter-of-fact, they were
mediums of a high degree. Can you read the Book of DaniP-1 and
not get that message? In fact, the authors of all the prophetic
books of the Bible received in just that way, so God did not leave
us to fish for ourselves when He placed us on this planet.
Why the different methods? He also knew that the carnal-
minded would tend to distort and disfigure His landmarks. Look at
organized Christianity today. Distortion has crept in through man-
made theories until they do not resemble the teachings of Christ
at all. The churches today largely teach a social message, not a
spiritual one. Elsewhere in this book you will see the message of
Dr. Lovell, showing some of the laws that we must observe that
were Divinely Ordained. And yet in spite of all this forethougM by
the Creator, we willfully go on our own way and discard the guide
Book left by the Creator.
I can truthfully say that Astrology has largely made me what I
am-which I later combined with the Bible. But taking the two
together you have a check and balance method. If you listim to
116
•
the average preacher today, you would never really know your
Bible. Matter-of-fact, if you listen to some astrologers, you would
never know astrology. Look at the wild predictions by the Indian
astrologers-they bear no resemblance to reality.
I have great respect for Herbert W. Armstrong and his won-
derful teachings, and yet I was shocked to read of his wholesale
condemnation of astrology, based entirely upon ignorance. He has
never studied the subject so how can he condemn a thing he has
not investigated. You would be surprised how much chaff you
throw out when you begin to use astrology in your daily life. Sup_-
posing you have a proposition made to you. If you have an astro-
logical ephemeris and note the time the proposition was made to
you, you can tell whether the proposition is good or bad in a sec-
ond. That is the way I check astrology and still do.
Some years ago an astrologer came to me with a proposition.
When he had unfolded his proposition, I grabbed my ephemeris and
sad: "No." He said: "Why do you turn me down after looking up
your ephemeris?" I said: "If you were an astrologer, you would
know the answer," for the influence upon which he came was the
Moon in opposition to Uranus-that spelled trouble. This man had
never really studied astrology, therefore, he could not apply it to
his life and everyday affairs.
A few days ago we had something come up and my wife was
very apprehensive about it. I said: "It is all right, honey, the Moon
is in good aspect to Saturn; it is stable and dependable." Outward-
ly it looked just the reverse, but it worked out exactly as ast1·ology
said it would.
Some years ago I called on a friend and I found the lady
weeping bitterly. I asked what the trouble was. She said: "My
baby is dying." Before answering her I pulled out my ephemeris
and looked up the influence for that time of day. I saw no indica-
tion of a death, quite the reverse. It indicated a rapid recovery.
The Moon was in Cancer, applying to a good aspect to Jupiter.
I assured her the baby would not die although it looked like it on
the surface. I said: "I shall be back in two days and the baby will be
playing on the lawn." I went back in two days and it was as I said
it would be. How can we doubt that "The heavens declare the glory
of God and the firmament showeth his handiwork?"
With four planets in Taurus I am a very practical man and I
want things right down to earth-and astrology gives it to you in
just that way. I have yet to meet the man or woman who m&.de a
serious study of astrology that did not become a staunch believer.
My good friend, Dr. Shelton, tells me he studied it. I challenge him
to prove that he ever made a serious study because the laws of
God are so plainly marked there. I feel I owe an awful lot to astro-
logy and the Bible. The two go together.
My busy life has not given me time for a serious study of the
Pyramid, but I have studied it enough to know that it combines the
117
other two methods. I am very keenly intuitive so I am able to tune
in on the other methods of inspiration. Astrology tends to cultivate
the intuitive faculties. What are the intuitive faculties? Intuition is
the Voice of God within you. The Good Book says: "The Kingdom
of God is within you" and I have learned from experience it is so.
There are many books on the Pyramid and most of them are
over the head of the average individual. My good friend, Mr.
Howard Rand, has recently s-ent me a copy of the latest book on
the Great Pyramid entitled TIDSTIMONY IN STONE by Bernard
Nicklin. If you read the astrological section in this book, you will
see Mr. Rand uses all three, or perhaps I should say all four meth-
ods to read God's message of guidance. By the way, the Pyramid
book is $3.00.
I have lived to see many preachers embrace the science of
astrology in their work. In the past I have had bitter opposition
from them, but I have convinced many of them that God speaks
to mankind through the stars and planets. Talk to a gardener who
has been using the Moon Sign Book for any length of time, and he
will tell you it pays to plant at the proper time. As the Good Book
says: "There is a time to sow and a time to reap," etc. Astrclogy
is a valuable guide and goes hand in hand with the teachings of
the Bible. Will you please tell me what prompts the ebb and flow
of the ocean tides? It is the different phases of the Moon. Now if
the Moon controls the ebb and flow of the tides, what about the
major planets? Oh, yes, my friend, "The heavens do declare the
glory of God and the firmament showeth his handiwork.
Begin a study of this wonderful science. Cast aside your pre-
judice. I have had ministers tell me that since they studied astro-
logy they were better ministers. It can't be otherwise. You know
the time that a person takes sick and then look up the influence,
and you will see the outcome of it, even used to draw up a chart.
If the Moon is applying to a good aspect of Jupiter, especially in a
fruitful sign and the first quarter of the Moon, it means a speedy
recovery regardless of what it looks like on the surface. Therefore,
every doctor should study this science and he will be more accurate
in his diagnosis.
I have spent several years in social work and nursing in large
hospitals, and I used astrology with remarkable results. I do not
believe you can help sick people with drugs so my people never
got any medicine, at least not from me. I believe in the hygienic
way of living. In that respect I respect the teachings of Dr. Shelton,
but I have long since learned that practically all great men have a
blind spot, and I consider Armstrong and Shelton great men, but
they have their blind spots.
To sum it up, God doesn't throw us out to shift for ourselves.
He gave us a guide Book, in fact, several as described above. Use
the tools that the Good Lord has graciously provided us because
God is a God of Love and He is deeply concerned about our wel-
fare on this planet. He, Himself, said we are potential Gods.
118
Jesus of Nazareth was the first fruit- He was the first to
graduate. He said: "What I have done you can do, yes, even great-
er things than this." I have lived long enough to prove His state-
ments. Not that I know it all-I do not. Two thounsand years ago
He sowed the seeds and now He is coming back to harvest His
crop. His crops. is humanity, or rather that segment that has sur-
rendered to Him.
When you and I learn to say: "Thy Will, oh Lord, be done"
then we begin to live and we are on our way. "In Him we liv~ and
move and have our being." That is God and He has planted His
name in our inward parts. That spark of life is of God, a part of
Him and you can't live without it. When I see a man or woman
who has rejected God I say: "How foolish!" He or she can't live
for one moment without God.
So the purpos.e of this book is to study the various methods
that God has given us for guideposts. The disturbance in the world
today is caused by Man's actions and humanity as a whole is reap-
ing the results of their wrong-doing, individually and nati0i1ally.
The more backward races will be practically wiped out before the
books are clean, "for as in the days of Noah, so shall it be in these
last days." God does not cause these things that you read about in
your papers every day. It is the effect of the causes set in motion
by mankind.
It is my sincere prayer that this little book will open your eyes
to the larger way of life. We are about to enter a marvelous new
world. Even our planet as a whole is moving into a new world with
a higher vibration. In that new world sickness and sorrow will
cease to be and as the Good Book says: "The last enemy to be
overcome is death." We shall have an indestructible physical body.
The laws of health are in your Bible, better than any writtim by
man because we shall then begin to eat and drink to the glory
of God and not satisfy our carnal desires.
After you have read this book, I would like you to write me,
giving me your impression of the book.
Thank you,
William Kullgren
119
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Preface - William Kullgren ---------------------------------------------------------------- 4
Preparing for the Future - Messages of Light ------------------------------ 6
The End of the Gentile Generation - 1964 - A Year of
Destiny - Norman C. Pierce ---------------------------------------------- 6
Heavenly Signs - Howard Rand in Destiny ----------------------------··---- 9
FROM MARK-ACE BULLETIN
Message from Jesus and Michael ------------------------------------------------------11
Dedication Ceremony of Meta Center in Miami ----------------------------12
Messages from Jesus ------------------------------------------------------------14
February Configuration of Planets - Dr. Hannibal _____
______________
_____15
Messages from Mary, Paul and Jesus ----------------------------------------------16
UNIVERSARIUN SPACE MESSAGES
The Time is now Upon You.
Messages from Orlon - Channel Marianne Francis _
_
_
_________________18
Operation Landing is now Imminent - Tukari ______________________________19
Questions and Answers Concerning World Conditions - Rama _
_
__20
Pollution and Radio Activity in the Northern Hemisphere-
Marianne Francis ---------------------------------------·-------------------·------25
Be Aware of His Magnificent Control of All Things -
Hope Troxell --------------------------------------------------------------------------27
We Will Soon Manifest Upon Your Planet- Rama __________________
_____
_
29
Go In Peace and We Will Project that Peace - June ______________
_____
_
29
This is the Day of Preparation - Tukari ----------------------------------------30
Continue Steadfast in the Light - Jesus of Nazareth ____
________
______32
Soon You Will Each be Channels Unto Yourselves - Rama _
_
______34
Fear Has No Reality Within the Substance that is Light -
Marianne Francis ------------------------------------------------------------------35
Bright Are the Tomorrows as Poppy Fields - Hope Troxell _
_
___
___35
Teleportation and Energy Fields - Marianne Francis ____
______
______38
Sector Xerxes Transmitting from Beyond the Galaxy -
Marianne Francis ------------------------------------------------------------------40
120
TABLE OF CONTENTS
MESSAGES THROUGH MARIANNE FRANCIS
MONTECITO, CALIF.
Page
MF: Impression ----------------------------------------·-------------------·--------------------------41
Clytron -----------------------·--------------------··-------------------------------·-···--------------------41
MF: Direct -----------------------------------------------------------------------------·-····-·--···-···43
Tukari Channelling ---------------------------------··----------------·-·--·--------------·-·····-·41
MF in Aleuti Consciousness ---------------------------------------------------------------.45
MF Impression from High Spiritual Being - The Brothers _
_
_____.46
"Love Suffers Much and Is Kind" ----···-·-·--·--------------------------------------47
Cosmic Change --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------50
MESSAGES THROUGH LOUISE MORSE OF MARYLAND
The Joy of Easter: ---------------------------·--------·-··-----·-·----··-------------------······-52
You are Buildng Literally An Eternal Body of
Yourself ------------------------------------------------------------------·-··--·-··57
An Invisible Teacher Speaks ------------------------------------------------63
On Speaking In Tongues ---------·-----·--------------------------------------------·-··-···67
On Soul Mates ----·--·-------------------------------'·----···--··--------------------------····--·-··71
Registered For Survival - Howard Rand in Destiny __________________
73
The Bible: World's Most Unusual Book!
-J. A. Lovell, Editor The Kingdom Digest ___________
_
__________84
UNIVERSARIUN SPACE MESSAGES
Zelrun Karsleigh
Rise In Earth's ·Consciousness - Phylos -·-··--·-·--·-··---·-···-···------- ____g9
Christ Consciousness Awakening - Plato --------··-·-----····--·-····-·--·-·--90
Projection of Power - Amenhotep IV ------------------------····-·-·--------------90
Know That We Are More Powerful Than Any Atomic Bomb
-Jesus of Nazareth --------------------····-----·-·-····------------··-····-----·91
Over All is An Abiding Spirit - I AM --·------------------------------·-······--·----93
Symbology, The Language of Correspondences - I-AM-TON _
_
__9'3
Be Not Found Wanting - Jesus of Nazareth -------------------------···-·-··-94
This is My Message and My Mission Here - Rama ______________________95
121
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
SO BE IT
By Muriel
How To Help the Space Brothers Now - Asla --------------------------------98
The Purpose of Our Plan and Man's Need for Action -
Ashtar --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ff9
Awaken! Have No Fear - Monka --------····---------------------------······-------100
The Great Cleansing - Ashtar --------------------------------------------···--·--·---102
Journey to the Sanctuary - Alan --------------------------------------------------104
Etherealization of Body Structure - Alan ------------------------------------105
Zoser Reducing Diet ----------------------------------------------------------------------------106
"Sky Quakes" - Elena ----------------------------------------------------------------------107
Earth Beautiful - Asla ----------------------------------------------------------------------107
The Days of Eternity - Mary ------------------------------------------··········-·····108
Those Blessed - Jesus ----------------------------------------------------------------------108 .
1962 Revelations
Special Message to New Age Young People -
Heralds of the New Age ----------------------------------------------------109
Conclusion
God Speaks - William Kullgren ------------------------------------------------------116
122
