{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1adele_p_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Adele P Probable NDE 6731","mylang":"de"}
          	        Adele P Probable NDE 6731  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Adele P Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3352 Adele P Probable NDE 6731  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was sick for about four days and at that time I had organs shutting down. I had a fever of one hundred five. The fourth night, I was very ill and delirious. I was in bed trying to sleep when all of a sudden, I was aware of my deceased mother and father. They were in a dim gray light. My mother was in front of my father and she was wearing her hair and clothing the way women did during the World War II. My father was behind her but he looked like he did after he had surgery for head and neck cancer. Much older than my mom looked. My mom smiled at me and lifted the palm of her hand as if saying, ‘Don't come.’ My dad gave me the ok sign he always did when I did something to please him. Some moments went on and then they disappeared into the gray light. The next day I was taken to the hospital and the emergency room doctor told my daughter that I was very, very ill and might not live. I was hospitalized for fourteen days. It took me eight months or so to fully recover. After that experience, I was not and am not afraid to die. I have also forgiven my parents for the kind of childhood I had. Nothing terrible, like abuse or anything, but all was not Champagne and roses. To this day, I can see my mom and dad right this moment as clearly as I did that night I was hurtling to my death. They comfort me even now.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  August 2000

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' Sepsis.  I was deathly ill with organs shutting down. I was in great pain.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was so sick, but the moment my parents appeared to me, I was fully conscious and happy.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was looking at my mom and dad.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It was just me and my parents in the light.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Much more elevated.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Elevated, but my parents did not speak to me.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw my mother and father very clearly.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was a light gray mist around my parents, and a darker mist around the light gray mist.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The gray fog-like light surrounded my parents and me. There was some darkness behind me.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Surprise and incredible happiness!

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I don't know how to explain my feelings other than I felt calmer.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I came back because my parents' behavior told me to.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   Christian, Protestant

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have my relationship with God and it is much stronger.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant   Christian-Protestant

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I had 2 more near death experiences after this one.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe we don't die. We are here to learn lessons and then go to another plane to teach them to others.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     What comes to my mind at this moment is that I may have done some astral traveling. Not sure.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     I'm not certain.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew that I was meant to do more good things for others and to appreciate my life and not take anything for granted.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Yes, I thought that I still had work to do before I could die.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Because I saw my mom and dad so clearly and understood their message so clearly, I belive in life after death.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     I wanted to get better and LIVE!

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Yes, my parents looked at me with such great love. I can see that to this day.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I truly don't fear death. I had two more near death experiences. One that is vivid and one that is less vivid.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   Any time I wish, I can see my parents....especially at night when all is quiet.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Not sure but I always listen to my gut. I believe that is God talking to me.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Seeing my mom and dad alive!

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     After more than a decade, it is as real as it was the night it happened.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It has changed my life in many ways. I am calmer and less afraid. I only fear some earthly attacks.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   All the time. Anytime I think of my parents.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am much more grounded than I was before. I am calmer. I concentrate on truth and beauty and my art.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1adele_p_probable_nde.html