{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1adam_n_nde.html","mytitle":"Adam N NDE 5349","mylang":"de"}
          	        Adam N NDE 5349  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Adam N NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2814 Adam N NDE 5349  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had taken 24 pills in a four hour period to get high. I was so high that I forgot that I had already taken some, and that's the only reason any of this even happened to me. I was at a friend's house sitting on the back porch with him.  Suddenly, I felt something really wrong inside my body like something very bad was about to happen. I felt like I might not be able to communicate shortly so I quickly blurted out to him 'Nick, I took a whole bunch of pills today. I think I'm dying. I have to lay down'. He panicked and started yelling that I shouldn't lay down, and I got up and suddenly crashed onto the couch face. I heard him say 'Oh Shit' loudly and started freaking out.  Then, I was not in my body. 

I was above my body looking down at it.  I saw him and what he was doing to me. He was yelling and shaking me and telling me to wake up. My lips looked very blue and dark. Even though I wasn't in my body anymore, I felt like I could feel my heart stop. It was calming as soon as the beating ceased. I was exactly who I am now only without a body. Everything was the same, but I was just a consciousness, not a body. I remember feeling very, very scared, but not for myself.  I was afraid of what was happening. I thought about my son Jackson. I was worried not for the pain that I went through but for his loss of me. I knew and felt that he needed me and would be very upset going through life without me. I heard my grandmother's voice (who had passed away two years previously). She said my name three times in a very distinct tone 'Adam...Adam...Adam...' and that was it. 

I didn't see her or anything, just heard her. Then something told me, (not literally, I just felt this) that it wasn't time yet and I had to 'help save the little girl'.  I don't know what this means, but I feel like my purpose on this earth is to find that girl, our paths will cross, and I will be in a situation where I'll have to save her life. I don't know who she is or where she is, but I'm on the lookout now.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  08/27/2011

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Drug overdose  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I unintentionally overdosed on drugs. I was a recreational drug user and took three times a lethal dose - I found that out later.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   See answer to above question.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The entire thing felt like extreme consciousness. It felt more real and dimensional then anything I've ever felt.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time didn't exist. Everything was just everything. It was all one consciousness, being, and thing.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything just seemed clearer. I was more alert and aware of what was happening.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calm. Peace. Love. Every positive emotion that can run through you is what I felt all at once. It sounds strange but I would describe it as a mental orgasm that felt like it lasted forever.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     The girl I'm supposed to save. This was told to me somehow and I feel like it's what I have to do now.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   'I would have generally considered myself an athiest, but not totally. I was open to the idea of God, but not remotely religious.'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     I was not religious before and remain that way. This experience only confirmed to me that man's mind needs religion to grasp onto to believe in something, but at the end of the day, love and being good is all that matters. Intentions are important.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Raised in moderately religious background. Christianity.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     I was not religious before and remain that way. This experience only confirmed to me that man's mind needs religion to grasp onto to believe in something, but at the end of the day, love and being good is all that matters. Intentions are important.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I felt love, incredibly warming love and comfort. I was told I had to return to save a little girl and feel like that's now my mission in life. Whether it occurs tomorrow or in 30 years I feel like this event will happen to me.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I'm so focused on love and peace in my life now. Nothing materialistic is important to me. We're all just here having to go through the motions until we arrive where we're meant to be.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I feel like after having this experience I cannot explain it to others that haven't had it. The human mind and consciousness is not capable of comprehending what happened to me. I only know this now that I have lived through this experience. It was fantastically amazing.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The whole experience was amazing. There aren't really proper adjectives in the English language to describe what I felt. It was beautiful and OK. I guess that was my biggest 'take away'. I have absolutely no fear of death now and realize that it's an amazing transition that occurs.  We are still our minds and consciousness, just not bodies. When we die, all we leave behind are bodies. Nothing else. We still exist.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it within a day with several family members and friends, all of whom seemed very supportive and believed everything I said. Even if they hadn't, I presented it in a way in which I knew that they wouldn't understand, having not experienced themselves.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     After my experience I spent about 15 hours on the internet researching other's experiences and wanting to compare them to my own, to know if I was crazy or not. The similarities were insane. That made me truly believe that what happened to me was real and that I did experience it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     See answer to above question.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It was fantastic.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1adam_n_nde.html