{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1adam_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Adam D NDE 3999","mylang":"de"}
          	        Adam D NDE 3999  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Adam D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1916 Adam D NDE 3999  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					When I was four years old, my family and I went out to go riding four-wheelers. My dad was behind me and I was sitting in front of him, but he was steering with his arms over me. He went really fast up a steep hill, and I was yelling 'No!', but he continued to anyways, thinking it would be fine. We peaked up to the top of the hill and the four-wheeler flipped, my dad ended up falling away from the four-wheeler, but the four-wheeler fell right on top of me and the gas tank punctured my spleen and I immediately passed out. I woke up for a few seconds seeing somebody telling me to wake up, but I passed out again. Right there I began floating above my body just watching, without any concern, just watching as they put me on the stretcher. They put me in the ambulance truck and I couldn't see inside, then I remember just being in a light for a while. I ended up coming back into my body and woke up in the hospital a couple days later; supposedly, I didn't breathe for thirty minutes. Then my mom put in Land Before Time and things were good from there.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Sometime in 1995

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Accident    Other 'Four wheeler accident, was riding with my Dad, he went up a hill and it flipped, the gas tank punctured my stomach.'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was outside of my body watching myself.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I was in some type of bright light for a while, and woke up a few days later in the hospital.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could float in the air, and watch my body.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I watched in peace I guess.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   'None, but Christian family'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   'God is Love, don't believe religion, not sure I believe in a God with a personality.'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     People tell me I'm different somehow, even today. I think about things exceptionally deep about the universe and God, but don't most people?

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I was really young to come back, but I could have subconsciously taken something back at that age, I'm sure it changed me a bit.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I've talked about it my whole life.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I knew something had happened, but I just accepted it at the time, it wasn't something I had begun to even process, but I knew it had happened.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I remember it vividly; it's actually the most distinct memory of my early childhood.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   LSD at age sixteen, I understood to BE instead of to Try to Be. To know that you are something. God is everything from an electron to a full condensed matter of energy, I had a panic attack and I blacked out, but I didn't float or anything. It reminded me of it.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Change the Font from Blue on the NDE's, it hurts the eyes.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1adam_d_nde.html