{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1adaline_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Adaline C NDE 3920","mylang":"de"}
          	        Adaline C NDE 3920  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Adaline C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1862 Adaline C NDE 3920  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					At age twenty-four I encounter a problem with my then boyfriend. I remember walking out of the building and smiling at my ex-boyfriend, when my then boyfriend saw me and grabbed me, dragged me to my aunt's apartment in the first floor and threw my body against the wall. Everybody was watching the show and nobody did a thing. He then continued to drag me to my apartment in the same first floor and started choking me. I recall I was trying to get him off me without success, he then continued choking me until death.

I didn't feel any pain at all; however, I was just struggling to set myself free from this man (the father of my son). I then was in this beautiful glowing place, white glowing background like clouds but illuminating bright clouds, and a man in front of me.

There was a man in a white dressy shirt and white dressy pants, his hair so smooth black and short, beautifully combed to the back (very good-looking man). I was begging him to let me stay, but he insisted in telling me I have to go back. I insisted that I did not want to come back; I wanted to stay in this beautiful place.

This Other Side was unexplainable in words. Too peaceful, too overwhelming, I was overpowered with so much love. I felt enamored, whole and complete, nothing to do with this world. It was my best experience in my whole life. The moment I step in the Other Side I felt the immense love all around me, also I knew I belonged there, however I tried hard, and implored, implored, and implored to stay in this beautiful world, forgetting and/or not caring to leave my two daughters and mother behind. I didn't care for leaving them; however, I knew they were going to be all right. The feeling was so out of this planet, world or dimension. Again, he insisted in telling me that I have to come back. It was like a little battle between this beautiful being and I.

I had to come back to this shameful world. Got up from the floor to the bathtub (it happened in my bathroom) bleeding from my nose and coughing. I asked my then boyfriend what had happened to me: I knew right away that I had died, but I thought I died from a heart attack. Then he proceeded by explaining to me what had happened then I started remembering. This beautiful being (angel, spirit guide) erased my awful memory from that event. I felt too much a shame that I asked not to remember that part of the experience, but no to forget this beautiful journey to Heaven.

From that moment on, I was and I am not afraid of physical death, because I learned there is life after death, our spirits never die. Isn't that amazing to know? For me it is! That you go to Hell after being a bad boy/girl is not a fact it is just a political and religious concept to have you under control. Yes, there is a purgatory but is not Hell with fire and torture. Not that you should do evil in this world, instead help one another: That is why we are here, to assist one another.

Since that experience, I wanted to know more about the unseen, and the unknown. Friends, a handful of whom I told my story, asked me why I wouldn't join them in their religion, perhaps I knew that was not my calling. It was like this feeling of craziness, guilt for not sharing their beliefs, so I refuse to talk about that experience anymore until now that I know what's my calling and I am going towards my goal. Thanks for sharing and GOD BLESS YOU ALL!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1993

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    Strangled by me Ex  Other Strangled by me Ex  The only life threatening issue was my ex-boyfriend choking me to death, as me being in that beautiful place was not threatening at all, on the contrary it was an amazing experience.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I woke up I was in a shock because I didn't know what had happened to me. However I knew I died, just didn't know how. I knew I was in another place and not Planet Earth.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It was out of this planet.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The background was incredibly white, illuminating. Not like the sun which would hurt your eyes, but more illuminated, more white without bothering your eyes. This beautiful being was slim, white male, dressed in white, hair soft black like silk, and a smooth, calm and beautiful voice. Amazing experience.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    More clarity, imagine all I wanted to hear was the words, 'You can stay.'

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I can't say who he was and I only saw him. I asked him to let me stay there because I knew I belonged there. He insisted in saying, 'You have to go back, is not your time.' Also I didn't understand why he wouldn't want me there.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No   I didn't see a light I just appeared in that place so bright, but I didn't see a light prior to that.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It sure was another dimension.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I Knew I belonged there. It was a feeling I been there before, but I can't point a finger to when. I felt too much Joy, happiness, whole and complete. I felt perfect.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I was baptized Catholic, however I don't believe in everything they practice. I believe in more powerful forces and don't believe in Hell like they teach.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I was baptized Catholic, however I don't believe in everything they practice. I believe in more powerful forces and don't believe in Hell like they teach.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I am sure that we are here, and especially I who was thrown back to earth, for a special purpose and that purpose is to assist and help everybody we can.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am more lovable and not afraid of death because there is not such thing as death, but life after death. 150% sure.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The feeling that surrounded me in this place. The being in front of me with his words and in the other hand people thinking that I was crazy or that I belonged to every church they felt was the correct for me.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     There were things always going on around me since I was a very little girl.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, the feeling of knowing I was there before and that I belonged there.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared this with only two people when it happened to me, then four years after I confided it to two more friends. I didn't want them to think I was crazy but I know that was always crossing their minds, who wouldn't. Then I talk more about it but uncertain of people feelings because they can't feel it unless they go through it. It's hard to talk about it; I like to keep it to myself. Thank God, I am not the only one, and there are people going through my same experience. Lovely!

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     So vividly. I was and always am day dreaming of this experience and ask myself all the time who was he.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Well I believe I was sent back to do something and I am working towards it. It never leaves my mind, and I still ask who he was.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   I don't use medications for anything and never did, that is because I am a very healthy person. And I never use legal or illegal drugs.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I would love to see cases more on television, and would love to join any scientific project concerning NDEs.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1adaline_c_nde.html