{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1964__bacher___studies_in_astrology____v4.pdf","mytitle":"Studies In Astrology","mylang":"de"}
I
Studies in Astrology
VOLUME IV
THE ROSICRUCIAN
FELLOWSHIP
MT. EccLESIA
Oceanside, California, U.S.A.
Studies in Astrology
BY
ELMAN BACHER
Volume 4
First Edition
The Rosicrucian Fellowship
MT. EccLESIA
Oceanside, California, U.S.A.
COPYRIGHT, 1964
BY
THE ROSICRUCIAN FELLOWSHIP
All rights, including tkat of translation reserved
Permission to copy or translate m(lf!J be given upon
application
PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY
THE ROSICRUCIAN FELLOWSHIP
OCEANSIDE, CALIFORNIA, U.S.A.
FOREWORD
The first three volumnes of this series of astro-
logical inter;pretations have been received with such
a warm welcome by so many astrology students that
we are pleased to present Volume IV.
Mr. Bacher's profound knowledge of and devotion
- to the stellar science, along with an uncanny under-
standing of human nature, made it possible for him
to present material which undoubtedly places him
among the best of modern esoteric astrologers. As the
truth and value of his spiritual interpretation of
astrology become more and more generally accepted,
his piresentations will serve increasingly to help
people know themselves and fulfill their highest
destiny.
Before passing in the early 1950's Mr. Bacher
expressed a keen desire to have us publish his articles
in book form, and although we deeply regret that he
did not live to see his publications made available to
the public, we are happy in knowing that his wish
is being fulfilled.
CONTENTS
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . iii
Introduction vi
Chapter 1
The "Bad" Aspects 9
Chapter 2
The ' ' Good'' Aspects 20
Chapter 3
The T-Cross and Grand Cross Aspects . . . . . . 29
Chapter 4
The Trine and the Grand Trine Aspects 39
Chapter 5
The Variable Aspects
Chapter 6
Interceptions
Chapter 7
Basic Relationship Structure
Chapter 8
The Horoscope Abstracted
Chapter 9
Condensation of the Horoscope
49
59
69
80
90
INTRODUCTION
Tei the Rosicrucian student astrology is a phase
of religion, basically a spiritual science. More than
any other study it reveals man to himself. No other
science is so sublime, so profound, and so all-embrac-
ing. It portrays the relation between God, the macro-
cosm, and man, the microcosm, showing them to be
fundamentally one.
Occult science, investigating the subtler forces
that impinge Uipon man, the Spirit, and his vehicles,
has charted their effects with no less definiteness
than has academic science the reactions of sea and
soil, plant and animal to the solar and lunar rays.
With this knowledge we may determine the as-
trological pattern of each individual and know the
relative strength and weakness of the various forces
operating in each life. To the degree that we are in
possession of such knowledge we can begin sys-
tematic, scientific character building- and character
is destiny ! We note times and seasons cosmically
advantageous to unfolding undeveloped qualities,
correcting faulty traits, and eliminating destructive
propensities.
The divine science of astrology reveals the hidden
causes at work in our lives. It counsels the adult in
regard to vocation, the parent in the guidance of
children, the teacher in management of pupils, the
physician in diagnosing diseases, thmi lending aid
8
to eaeh and all in whatever position they may find
themselves.
No other subjeet within the range of human
knowledge appears to hold for this day and age the
possibilities open to astrologers for helping people
t-0 their own dignity as gods-in-the-making, to a
greater grasp of universal law, and to a realization
that we are eternally seeure within the earessing
fold of Infinite and Boundless Being.
Chapter I
THE ''BAD'' ASPECTS
Time was when the writer shared with many as-
trological students the understanding that "square"
and "opposition,'' being "bad" aspects meant the
same thing ; also that ''good'' aspects, the trine and
sextile, were thought of a.s being the same. Time came
when the writer realized that if "square" meant
the same as ''opposition,'' and '' sextile'' the same
as ''trine,'' the same symbol would be used for both
pairs of aspects. It must be estabHshed in the minds
of students that every symbol utilized in astrology
has its own particular, unique significance and that
no two symbols can really mean the same thing. There
would be no point to such an approach. These sym-
bols are picturings of profound spiritual realizations
which were given to Humanity by the Great Ones
ages ago.
If the progress through the wheel from Ascendant
to the twelfth house pictures cyclic evolution, the
placement of the planets by sign and house, the focaJ-
izations of consciousness for expression during in-
carnation, then the aspects picture the mechanism
of the Spirit in action- the how of this endless ex-
pressing. The mechanical sciences require a lmowl-
edge of weights, leverages, balances and counter-
balances, gravity, propulsion, and so on; in other
10 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
words, the principles of how the mechanism. func-
tions to achieve a certain result. A horoscope, evolved
from geometrical design, contains picturings of prin-
ciples as they manifest in hum.an. incarnation as ex-
pressions of consciousness, and every symbol tha.t
is used in this particular science pictures an essence
or a func.tion of that essence.
/
The dynamic approach to human psychology has
proved that a "switch in viewpoint" often makes
possible an immediate clarification of the cause of
a problem and reveals the needed directive. We, as
astrological students, have tended to crystallize our
viewpoint of the square and opposition aspects and
to settle, mentally, into the picture that they are
the bad aspects. The words "bad" and "evil" have
been a part of our mental picturing ever since we
were able to interpret anything; if we are going to
evolve a constructive approach to psychological as-
strology we must switch our viewpoint of, and at-.
titude toward, the meanings of these particular sym-
bols of energy expressions.
It is a debatable point-this reference to "bad"
aspects. Can people who are astrologically unin-
formed, and in the throes of a personal problem, real-
ly be helped, way down deep, if their minds and feel-
ings are impressed by references to the "bad" aspects
in their chartsY There is no getting around it-we
all have a sub-conscious, instinctive reaction to words
like "bad;" they ignite our inner pieturings-or
memories-of ugly, distresmng, frightful, and difficult
experience patterns. The astrologer who says, ''Oh,
this is very serious-you haV'e a bad aspect between
your Saturn and Mars;" risks putting his client down
THE "BAD" ASPECTS 11
about five notches. There is something so ominous
about such a statement that, in simple kindness and
mercy, we cannot present such interpretations to
people who have come to us for guidance.
AstroJogers who have become fixated in the "bad-
ness'' of the square and opposition aspects are those
who have not inquired into the real meaning of these
symbols. By ''real meaning'' is meant spiritual or
philosophical significance. Since we must identify
these symbo·
ls in some way in order to transmit our
thoughts let us switch our word-app.roach into some-
thing toward which the client may react more
favorably.
It is suggested that the word "frictional" be sub-
stituted for ''bad.'' Everyone understands that '' fric-
tion'' means ''resistance,'' but people are not so
inclined to feel disturbed by that word. Also, as in
the case of a match being frictionally rubbed, the
result is an ignition which provides light and warmth.
So it is with us, inside ourselves, and our square and
opposition aspects. Certain levels of our conscious-
ness "rub against" other levels ; the result is an igni-
tion of awareness through pain-reaction, which serves
to point out a necessity for redirection of consciomi-
ness. Since all the planetary patterns of a horoscope
are enclosed within the wheel, the picture is shown
that mankind interprets experience from within-
in consciousness- not from without. In other words,
the source of our experience-interpretations is not
in the experiences thenrnelves but in our own center
of awareness and reaction.
Let us consider the square and opposition aspect
- symbols in terms of their essential, abstract pie-
12 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
turing. Use a blank, twelve-housed wheel for each.
For the square, conneet the midpoints of the :fixed
house~ond, :fifth, eighth, and eleventh-by
straight lines; the result is a square resting on a
horizontal base which starts, cyclically, in the second
house. This is the symbol we used for the ''square
aspect'' between any two planets in a horoscope.
The houses involved in this picturing are the
'"houses of resource," the well-springs of intense de-
sire, feeling, love, and capacity. These four houses--
and their abstractly related signs (Taurus, Leo,
Scorpio, and Aquarius)-include our deepest reac-
tion-potentials. AU astrological students know that
there are two other squares; we call them the ''car-
dinal" and "mutable" squares; but it is the fixed-
house square that is used to portray this abstraction of
"badness"-troubles and pains, sorrows, limitations,
and all manner of negativism. This symbol tells us,
when it relates any planets in any two signs or
houses of a chart, that the present need for regenera-
tion at those points is very great. Notice that in the
square-design, when we come to the end of the lower
horizontal-in the fifth house-we make a right angle,
not diagonally to right or left but straight up, in
order 1Jo progress further on the evolutionary path.
So it is with other turnings-right angles at each
corner. Thus the square aspect is seen to be uncom-
promising in its demands upon the consciousness;
for this reason the square aspect is referred to as
being the "most difficult," the "worst" or the "most
evil" of planetary relationships. We are taxed most
severely in our development at these points. Why7
The horoscope, in its entirety, is a composite of
THE "BAD" ASPECTS 13
the person's consciousness of cosmic principles--on
his particular evolutionary level. Therefore it follows
that two planets square to each other in a given chart
are not ''bad planets;'' it simply means that the per-
son is in a consciousness stage of relative unawareness
of principle. An individual's unawareness may be
very varied and this variety is shown by multiple
frictional aspects to any planet in his chart: the plan-
et may be squared by Mars and opposed by Moon,
but trined by Venus and sextiled by Pluto. We are
destined to experience reaction-patterns to every
planet in relationship to every other planet in order
to fulfill our vibrational destiny as human beings.
Anything less than that would not be fulfillment.
Because our experiences are, in the final analysis,
ignited by our contacts with other people and be-
cause we project ourselves into relationships accord-
ing to our consciousness it follows that unregenerate
projection creates patterns of destiny that come back
to us in the form of experiences of a painful or
"bad" quality. We suffer through these alertings be-
cause we are made to perceive, by our reactions to
other people and experiences, our own unregeneracy.
The Higher Self screams at us: ''Study this and
learn from it; don't do this to another person, you've
done it too often in the past; I insist that you re-
direct your reaction to this particular relationship
or experience, because if you don't you will continue
to misdirect your energy and darken your conscious-
ness more than ever." So the pattern which registers
in the horoscope as a square aspect between two
planets pictures the necessity, in this incarnation,
for a drastic revision of consciousness. The word
14 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
"frictional" proves its value here because the fires
of consciousness are ignited most intensely at these
points and through pain-reaction-the brightest light
is directed into the darkest corners. The Higher Self
is seeking to re-establish harmonious synchronization
within your consciousness by making it possible for
you to realize undesirable results from the continued
misdirections of your energies, and showing you the
necessity for making a new turn on your path.
The square and opposition aspects have a fascinat-
ing "common denominator." Apply the opposition
symbol to the second blank wheel by using the cusps
of the second and eighth houses as diameters; draw
circles around these diameters which, of course, will
be tangent to each other at the wheel's center. The
diameters of the two small circles form, together,
a diameter of the wheel itself and this diameter con-
nects the midpoints of the second and eighth; cyclical-
ly speaking, the starting point of this symbol is the
same as the starting point of the fixed square. The
desire-resource of the second and eighth houses is
common to both symbols, and the fundamental spir-
itual or occult process implied is regeneration.
A peculiarity of the opposition aspect is that
it ''polarizes'' the wheel. The lower point of the
symbol is in the ''individualistic'' quadrant of the
lower hemisphere; the higher point, in the eighth
house, is the "extension" of the lower. The second
house is ''material on-going;'' this is raised into its
higher octave through transmutation of the desire-
nature in relationship with people; the Power of
Love to effect redemption of the consciousness. There
must be some very important reason for the two small
THE "BAD" ASPECTS 15
circles involved in this symbol to be connected by a
forty-five degree diagonal rather than by a ho-rizontal
or a vertical. A horizontal is all right-and-left; a
vertical is all up-and-down. However, the diagonal of
this symbol is upward-and-onward-a composite of
the vertical and the horizontal, the essential concept
of all evolutionary processes and purposes.
The concensus of opinion is that the opposition
aspect implies a need to select one thing OT the other.
Some astrologers interpret this to mean that we
should choose one planet to work on, even at the
expense of the other. Others say we should--or must
- make the effort to utilize both of the planetary
vibrations at once, as best we can. The first of these
approaches is plainly untenable; we cannot drop any
of our astrological factors- we live with, and express,
all of them through the entire course ·Of an incarna-
tion. The second of these approaches comes much
nearer to the actual requirements of the aspect be-
cause it instructs us to utilize both planetary factors.
However, the Higher Self speaks to us through the
very meaning of the aspect. Are you going to express
these two planets unregeneratively or regeneratively?
The point is not which of the two planets but which
of the two octaves of consciousness are you going to
express- that which you have been in, tend to re-
main in, and, by now, should be emerging from, or
that to which you are evolving-that which is inturn-
ing or that which is outgoing? That which is self-
keeping or that which is self-evolving? That which
results in the wtting-ofj of realization or that which
opens the do.ors of your consciousness to awareness;
of beauty, truth, and goodness? This is the esoteric
16 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
meaning of the opposition aspect and by it we can
understand why the key-word awareness is used to
identify its purposes.
As above, so below. When the Sun and Moon come
to the conjunction each 28 days a new ''breath'' is
taken in the vibrational body of Humanity; two
weeks later this "breath" is "exhaled" at the Full
Moon. This action is the great rhythmic, tidal life of
our occult existence and the pattern-conception and
expression-is experienced by all of our vibrational
organs in relationship not only to the other planets
but-and this is important-also to the signs of their
dignity. Just ais every organ of our physical bodies
has its own pattern for growth, function, and ful-
fillment, so has each planet in relationship to the over-
all body of consciousness.
A planet in the sign of its dignity has ''returneel
to home base'' after a tour through the zodiac ; its
accumulated essence, distilled from your experiences
through many past incarnations, is now in full force
and it is ready to start another cycle from its-and
your-present evolutionary base. A planet in what
we call the sign of its "detriment" is not a "bad"
planet ; it is half way around its own evolutionary
orbit and makes the opposition aspect to the sign of
its dignity-as far away from ''home'' as it can get.
A chart containing even one planet placed in the sign
of its "detriment" reveals that the person, in con-
sciousness, is on that one point in a critical step on his
present evolutionary cycle, and any frictional plane-
tary aspoots to that planet represents a taxing to the
utmost of regenerative potentialities. This incarna-
THE "BAD" ASPECTS 17
tion, with planets in detriment, is very significant
because the person is going to be made aware of his
inner deficiencies in a very acute way.
If a planet in detriment registers in the present
horoscope as the ruler of the chart (ruler of the sign
on the Ascendant) then the criticalness of this in-
carnation is intensified. The ruler of the chart is our
planetary symbol of I AM consciousness: in the sign
of detriment-opposite to its own dignity-the chart
can really tell a story of great spiritual conflict since
the frictional aspects to a ''detrimented'' ruler can
make it pos.sible for the person to identify himself
with darkness. He may tend to interpret his own
personality-potentials through his unregenerate con-
sciousness and living in that way, he can risk a
marked "back-turning" in his evolution. The regen-
erate aspects made by the chart ruler so placed serve
to make him unconsciously turn "toward the Light"
and in living by those patterns he insures an upward
turning in his development, not only for this incar-
nation but for all that follow.
Just as the physical birth is the result of con-
ception and the Full Moon is the result of the luna-
tion previous to it so an opposition aspect between
two planets is the awareness which results from a con-
junction of these two planets at some time in the past
incarnations of the person. There are no effects with-
out causes and since Cosmic Pattern manifests on
all planes we must realize in studying the opposition
aspect that in this incarnation the person is being
made aware of these two particular vibrational pow-
ers, or qualities, in his own nature in a very impor-
tant and significant way. Recognize that inner ten-
sions can be very great with even one opposition-
18 STUDIES IN .ASTROLOGY
aspect in the chart. The experience-patterns repre-
sented by the planets concerned-either by rulership
or by occupancy--demand and urge the regenerate,
spiritualized express.ion of the person's nature. Re-
peating the unregenerate frictional qualities will keep
the person in ''darkness'' not only for this incarna-
tion but perhaps for several "chapters" to come-
and the testings will, in future be more and more
severe.
The criticalness of this aspect is <'learly demon-
strated when the opposition aspect is ignited by
eclipses, progressed Moon, or progressed planetary
aspects making the simultaneous square to both plan-
ets. In such a stimulation of the aspect the unre-
generate residue in the person's consciousness-what-
ever his age may be-"comes out of the woodwork"
and he experiences a testing of his regenerate ca-
pacities that can be very severe. On the other hand,
when the opposition is activated by one planet being
trined and the other sextiled, then whatever of re-
generacy has been established can be drawn on to
deal with the experience that is manifested. A ''fav-
orable" activation of the opposition aspect always
implies, to a degree,· a testing but ''more of the best
of consciousness" is more immediately available.
In the foregoing is seen the reason why the op-
position aspect is universally considered ''not as
bad'' as the square because even if the two planets
concerned have no other aspects, the pattern as a
whole is activated four times by the combination of
trine-sextile to the two times it is squared. MUJCh
more "elasticity" is enjoyed and the impulses to
regenerate are much more numerous, in the long run.
THE "BAD" ASPECTS 19
A happy ending: even the squaxe or opposition
aspects can be "life-savers" of great benefit when
they are made by an otherwise una:spected Saturn in
a chart having nothing in earth. The person in such
a chart needs ballast, he needs controlling and direc-
tion, he needs channelings for his outgoing energies.
Such a Saturn simply says- and this proves that the
square and opposition are not essentially bad- '' I
will see to it that you keep your feet on the ground
so that your life may be lived purposefully and con-
structively; yau will have responsibilities to fulfill,
ambitions to achieve, and qualities to regenerate and
redirect; my vibration, even though it may seem to
hold you down at times, is really your greatest bless-
ing because it will keep you aligned to the streams
of unfolding experience.''
Life does not punish us through our squares and
oppositions; it teaches us our most needed lessons
throiigh thern if we wish to learn to become awmre
of our needed regenerations.
Chapter II
THE "GOOD" ASPECTS
The function of the sextile and trine aspects is
to reveal relative degrees of the regenerate conscious-
ness of humanity. They are our points of enlighten-
ment ; our ''urgings toward greater Good'' (sextile)
and ''realization of unfolded Good'' (trine). The
sextile is the process by which the trine is created.
The philosophically minded astrologer never '
thinks of or refers to the sextile and the trine as
"lucky" aspects because he knows that every factor
in a horoscope is an e:ffect of a specific cause ; the
original cause was, of course, an expression-in ac-
tion-of a particular level of consciousness in the
past. He recognizes that every sextile in a chart out-
pictures a certain work of regeneration which, started
in the past, was brought to such a point of efficiency
that it now registers as a dynamo for the releasement
of further and greater regenerative power in this in-
carnation. He recognizes that every trine is a regis-
tration of equilibriated relationship between two
planetary factors; a trine is always a r-esult of re-
generation of consciousness-it is never a fortunate
"accident of heredity" in any way or on any level
of development.
By many, the sextile aspect is considered a ''mi-
nor" or usmall" aspect; perhaps this interpretation
•·
THE "GOOD" ASPECTS 21
is made because the aspect involves only sixty degrees
-half a trine. When we study the sextile symbol we
are alerted to the fact that the sextile is as "major"
as any other aspect; when we recognize its sig-
nificance as a picturing of the dynamic phases of
evolution we realize that it is one of the most impor-
tant of all astrological symbols and is one by which
the astrologer, in understanding it, can render great
service to those who are seeking greater awareness
of their own source of Light.
The essential geometric form of the sextile aspect
symbol is the hexagonal-a figure of six equal sides
which rests, as do the square and trine symbols, on
a horizontal base. The cyclic starting points of the
square and trine are the midpoint and the cusp of
the second house, respectively ; the sextile ' 'starts''
at the Ascendant-the first factor which reveals the
essential dynamic quality and significance of the as-
pect. As with the trine, progress around the hex-
a.gonal is made by diagonals at the turning points;
a diagonal composite of horizontal and vertieal im-
plies an abstraction of "upward and onward for-
ever"-"-the symbol of spiritualized evolution.
The first diagonal of the hexagon cuts acr6ss the
first and seeond hol'.ISes and e!itablishes contaet with
the cusp of the third house. In other words, it takes
a short cut across the desire potential of the second
house and directly connects the ''I AM'' of the As-
cendant with the "I Think" of the third house. Fol-
lowing around the hexagon we see that the other five
lines cut across the houses which are abstractly re-
lated to the earth and water signs and that the entire
symbol has, as its structure points, the houses re-
22 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
lated to the fire-signs (Spirit) and the air signs
(Mind). (These houses are also identifiable as the
two pairs of "parallel relationship "-first and sev-
enth, third and ninth-plus the two houses of Love
power potential-the fifth, and its spiritualized po-
larity, the eleventh). The symbol tells us that the
sextile aspect represents the dynamic, positive, pro-
pelling agencies of the human consciousness-it cuts
through the levels of desire and instinct-pulling
into expr~on those factors of consciousness which
neutralize the miasmas in the subconscious resources
of intense feeling.
The square and trine symbols are ''enclosed,''
representing a stage of consciousness in which some-
thing definite has been arrived at. The square is un-
regeneracy which has become "lockjawed"-it must
be pried loose by regenerative agencies so that evolu-
tion can be continued; the trine is a specific level of
flowering-a level of inner synchronization and equi-
librium. It will, in due time, be decrystallized just
as a :flower is decrystallized in its own timing so that
the new life processes of the plant may be inaugurated.
The two planets involved in trine aspect to each other
are destined to come into trine relationship with
other planets in the future, so the ''static'' quality
of their present relationship will, in right timing,
become subject to evolutionary forces for the creation
of new patterns of experience out of which new trines
may result.
In human experience we see this decrystallization
of trines represented when we consider that those
things which represent happiness, harmony, and con-
tentment to a child of six do not bring satisfaction
TDE "GOOD" ASPECTS 23
to a man of forty. That which may represent a
flowering of culture to an aborigine in the jungle
may appear as child's play to a person who is man-
ifesting as a member of a truly cultured society.
''Any planet trine to any other planet'' represents,
essentially, a flowering of consciousness; but, the
ma;nifestations of trines are relative to evolutionary
development.
When we consider the sextile symbol we are look-
ing at a picture of ''lines of force.'' This symbol is,
unlike the other aspect symbols, open-a picture of
radiations from a center. Since it is open there is
an implication of indefiniteness of shape. It is in fact,
process at work rather than thing accomplished. The
six lines-cusps of the fire and air houses-represent
the charging of new light and warmth from the cen-
ter; not the center itself but that which emanates
from it.
The sextile aspect is the principle of leverage
and counter thrust. It has to have something to work
against and, in reference to levels of human conscious-
ness, the thing it works against is always a state of
unregeneracy. We cannot remain in a specific or com-
posite level indefinitely; to do so would be to in-
sure sta.gnation. (Translate ''stagnation'' to mean
"death.") The sextile aspect then is the mechanism
by which Cosmic Progress expresses through us for
decrystallization of congestion and makes possible the
great alchemical changes of transmutation and re-
generated releasement of potentials.
Two planets in square aspect to each other depict
a state of inertia through unregeneracy; these forces
must, if Life is to express progressively through the
24 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
person, be decrystallized so that the soul energies
may be redistributed and thus make possible an
eventual harmonious relationship as trine. A planet
which sextiles one of two squared planets is the al-
chemical agency-counter thrusting against the iner-
tia of the square. The vibrational exchange between
that planet and the one it sextiles is the decrystalliz-
ing potential for re-directing the energies of the
squared planet. It is like a chemical which, when
put into water, softens the water so that the work of
cleansing is made easier and more thorough, or the liq-
uid which loosens up the grease in a drain pipe so that
the drain may more efficiently dispose of the waste
water. When the two planets of an opposition aspect
are, respectively, trined and sextiled by a third plan-
et, the sextiled planet is the one that is being worked
on by the regenerating agency. If you have occasion
to study a chart one planet of which registers only
by the sextile aspect to other planets, give very care-
ful attention to that planet ; on its cultivation de-
pends much of the person's spiritual on-going; such
a planet provides a very significant counter-thrust
against much that may represent unregeneracy.
Two planets registering as an otherwise unas-
pected sextile tell the story that, in their evolu-
tionary inter-relationship, these two have been al-
lowed to get off to a good start-an indication of
direct awareness of regenerative expression and a
fair promise that flowering into trine relationship is
not too far in the future. However, the regenerative
work must be expressed continually to make this
flowering possible; complications by unregenerate
patterns can result in a ''gumming up of the works.''
THE "GOOD" ASPECTS 25
Help such a client to understand the principles of
two such planets so that he will know how to put
to work these particular expressions of his conscious-
ness as neutralizers for other vibrations of an unre-
generate kind, and to develop their potentials in re-
lationship to each other. We must give very careful
study to the sextiles and semi-sextiles that we :find
in any chart; we recognize that they are the work-
ings of the regenerate consciousness to decrystallize
and redistribute energy-patterns which have become
stagnated in unregeneracy.
The symbol for the trine aspect, when related
to the abstract wheel, coincides with the cusps of the
second, sixth, and tenth houses-an equilateral tri-
angle resting on a horizontal base. Symmetrical as
is the water-trine, the Earth trine also represents,
by its horizontal base, a peacefulness-a ''perfect
resting.'' In this symbol we see the human con-
sciousness enjoying the fruits of constructive effort;
after a phase of redirection has been made, the full
flowering of the experieneie is realized and enjoyed~
either at points during an incarnation or during a
cycle of incarnation.
Some astrologers co-relate the symbol for the trine
aspect with the essential meaning of the planet Ju-
piter-due, it may be supposed, to the "happiness"
or ''good fortune'' by which they identify that benev-
olent vibration. Actually, such an interpretation does
not coincide with the meaning of the trine. Jupiter,
with all due respect to his manifold virtues, is a
dynamic vibration; the trine is equilibriated, poised,
an indication of inner harmony, a flowering of spir-
itualized consciousness, an awareness of the Higher
Self-all the results of transmutative efforts.
26 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
Apply the horizontally-based triangle to the
twelve-housed whool and perceive that, cyclically, it
starts at the cusp of the second house ; it travels
across to the cusp of the sixth house, then directly to
the cusp of the tenth. The wheel is the picturing of
the evolution of human consciousness through ex-.
perience patterns so the inner meaning of the trine
must be found in consideration of the houses that it
abstractly represents, and from that may be deduced
the planetary vibration to which it most closely cor-
responds. Since the trine represents regenerated re-
sult let us apply regenerate key-words to the three
houses involved:
Second House: "Possession and desire for pos-
session'' has been transmuted into consciousness or
right exchange of m()1'/,ey and materials, perfect stew-
ardship and the resultant regeneration of relation-
ships, between people who have learned to direct
:finance-exchange through right feeling toward each
other.
Sixth house: the consciousness of "Labor" is re-
generated into an expression of Love-Service as a
releasement of fifth-house potentials ; as an extension
of regenerated second house, people who work and
people who are worked for are in sympathetic and
equilibriated relationship to each other; exchange
in money and commodities is balanced by exchange
in work-value; the right consciousness of money-
exchange correlates with the best expression of work
potential. "Capital versus Labor" is transmuted into
'' Capital and Labor'' harmoniously integrated as a
base-the horizontal line-for the vertical structure
to the third point which is:
THE "GOOD" ASPECTS 27
The tenth house: the achievement of a perfected
Society, including and enclosing the best expressions
of all classes and evolutionary levels of humanity.
Since the earth-houses succeed the fire-houses, the
picture is shown that perfected society is a manifesta-
tion of the powers of self-awareness, love and wisdom
of all people. The single trine aspect in an individual
horoscope represents an attained awareness of some
level or phase, of right relationship of the individual
to the world at large ; the symbol itself, as an abstrac-
tion of the Great Horoscope, represents the spiritual,
cultural, and economic :fiowerings of humanity, as an
entity, on its evolutionary Path.
Civilizations rise, flower, and fall; individuals rise
to, pass through, and transcend ''points of rest'' in
their individual experience but the trine symbol is the
apex, the ''perfected achievement' '- the blossoming
of the best in individual or collective consciousness.
Its planetary correlative is not Jupiter but Venus,
the arch-symbol of the feminine essence of conscious-
ness-Harmony, Love, and Beauty distilled from the
strivings and growings of all people; honey distilled
from the nectar of flowers; the perfection of line,
structure, and color of the cultivated human body;
the gleam and sparkle of meticulously cut jewelry;
culture that represents the best of mankind's
realizations.
Through your trine aspects you are aware of
your God-consciousness-you are "in tune" with
your best; the amplitude, beauty, and harmony of
your outer conditions are the reflections of your re-
generated consciousness. Do more than just enjoy
your trines-share them with an people you contact
28 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
by keeping your ''trined consciousness'' alive and
expressive always. In this way you not only share
your treasures but, by the power of sympathetic vi-
brations, you "ignite" other people to a greater
awareness of their inner Good, and thereby stimulate
the good aspects in their charts.
Chapter III
'rHE T-CROSS AND GRAND CROSS ASPECTS
These two aspect-patterns are regarded by many as-
trological readers with feelings of considerable neg-
ative concern for the persons represented by the
charts. It is true that life-lessons of grave import
and evolutionary significance are indicated by these
patterns. It is just as true that the astrological reader
must learn to regard them impersonally and unemo-
tionally, with philosophic calm, if he is to interpret
them in a serviceable way.
Any mode of astrological reading that tends to
emphasize the interpretation of experience as being
actual evil, misfortune, calamity, or tragedy cannot
be truly enlightening; yet this kind of approach oc-
cupies the minds of many readers when they seek
to interpret even a single-square aspect. Hence the
fusion of opposition-aspect with multiple squares, as
is depicted by both the T-Cross and Grand Cross,
represents to them "something awful raised to the
umpteenth degree,'' an implication of a quality of
karma so terrible as to be almost-or actually- be-
yond hope of resolution during the entire scope of
the present lifetime.
In all justice, we astro-readers must make our-
selves more cognizant and re-cognizant of the foun-
dational Principles of Life so that, when we are called
30 STUDIE·S IN ASTROLOGY
upon to read charts which contain these multiple
tension-patterns, we can exercise correct perception
and thereby further enlightenment, rather than ex-
ercise ignorance and fear and thereby increase dis-
tress and hopelessness in the consciousness of the
persons concerned. These complex aspects can be
viewed from many standpoints of Principle which
reveal secrets of destiny as indications of evolution-
ary placement and progress. Our responsibility and
service are focalized on the expansion of perception
of principle.
For pursuance of this material, it is suggested
that you prepare several copies of the twelve-housed
wheel with the zodiacal signs arranged in sequence
from Aries as Ascendant-sign; also a listing of the
zodiacal signs according to the ''Crosses,'' as follows:
Cardinal: Aries and Libra, Capricorn and Cancer;
Fixed: Leo and Aquarius, Taurus and Scorpio; Mut-
able: Sagittarius and Gemini, Virgo and Pisces.
The clockwise sequence of adjoining squares for
each sign: Aries: Cancer and Capricorn; Libra:
Capricorn and Cancer; Capricorn: Aries and Libra;
Cancer: Libra and Aries; Leo: Scorpio and Taurus;
Aquarius: Taurus and Scorpio; Taurus: Leo and
Aquarius; Scorpio. Aquarius and Leo; Sagittarius:
Pisces and Virgo ; Gemini: Virgo and Pisces; Virgo:
Sagittarius and Gemini; Pisces: Gemini and
Sagittarius.
Consideration of ''planetary scope:'' the mini-
mum planetary scope of the T-Cross is three planetary
points, two of which are in opposition to each other,
both being squared by the third. The minimum plane-
tary scope of the Grand-Cross is four planetary
T-CROSS AND GR.A.ND CROSS ASPECTS 31
points, patterned as two pairs of oppositions forming
a sequence of four square aspects. The maximum
scope of both is all ten planetary points which may
be inter-related by close orb or by "extended" orb.
In the case of many T-Cross and Grand-Cross as-
pects, of four or more planets, the numerical dif-
ference between the first planet which applies to
the aspect and the last one may be as high as twelve
or thirteen degrees; the extension of orb is valid be-
cause the planets are inter-related in the same aspect.
Consideration of aspect-quality: The T-Cross and
Grand-Cross aspects may be thought of as ''pure''
if their planetary points all occupy signs of the same
cross-cardinal, fixed, or mutable ; they are ''mixed''
if the planets, though in valid numerical orb, occupy
signs representing a mixture of crosses. A few
examples:
T-Cross, minimum, pure: Venus in 9 Leo opposi-
tion Jupiter in 9 Aquarius, both squared by Moon in
9 Taurus (or Scorpio).
T-Cross, minimum, mixed: Venus in 26· Leo op-
position Jupiter in 28 Aquarius, both squared by
Moon in 2 Sagittarius (or Gemini); Venus and Jupi-
ter are in fixed signs, Moon is in mutable.
T-Cross, multiple (four to nine points), pure:
Saturn 6 Libra, Jupiter 9 Aries, Uranus 14 Cancer,
Neptune 17 Libra; the aspect-orb, from Saturn to
Neptune is eleven degrees.
T-Cross, multiple, mixed: Pluto 28 Gemini, Mars
3 Capricorn, Venus 2 Aries, Moon 8 Aries; aspec,t-
orb is ten degrees, Pluto in mutable, the others in
cardinal.
Grand-Cross, minimum, pure: Sun 4 Pisces, Ura-
32 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
nus 2 Virgo, Moon 7 Sagittarius, Jupiter 1 Gemini-
close orb throughout, mutable signs.
Grand-Cross, multiple (nine-point) mixed: Ura-
nus 22 Caprieorn, Moon 23 Cancer, Neptune 24 Can-
cer, Mercury 19 Libra, Mars 21 Libra, Venus 22
Libra, Jupiter 26 Libra, Sun 2 Sco:ripio, Saturn 3
Taurus; aspect-orb is 14 degrees, Mercury to Saturn;
mixture of cardinal-:fixed.
Experimentation with varieties of T-Cross and
Grand-Cross patterns-also using various signs as
Ascendants-will develop fluency in recognition of
them in the study of charts. Start with "minimum-
pure'' ones and progress, by expansion, into more
complex and varied ones.
Regarding the understanding of the reasons for,
and purposes of the T-Cross and Grand-Cross as-
pects, keep always in mind this statement of Life-
Principle : Release of power depen<l,s upon, and is
suooeedent to, localization of power. For example,
release of power in activity is focalized by Will to
fulfill Purpose, release of power as Love is focalized
by relationship-contact and the resultant ignition of
individual or mutual consciousness-of-Love; release
of power as Teaching is focalized by the need of the
teacher to give expression to what he has learned and
the need of the student to absorb what is expressed.
This Principle may be perceived by the discerning
person in every aspect of life and experience, and
on all planes of functioning.
The almost ominous implication of difficulty de-
lineated by the T-Cross and Grand-Cross aspects has
its resource in the fact that it pictures an internal, or
subjective, method of much needed focalization for
T-CROSS AND GRAND CROSS ASPECTS 33
correction of wasteful tendencies practiced through
several past lives. In other words, these patterns pic-
ture a karmically conditioned gathering of forces
which tell the astrological reader that those Prin-
ciples that govern human destiny will not permit
the person concerned-he who is represented by the
chart-to continue with a program of relative waste-
!ulness m attitude and activity. The present incar-
nation is thereby represented as the karmically timed
opportunity, through a relative limitation of scop.e,
to bring order into consciousness by ,a focus on con-
centrated experience. Charts which contain the T-
Cross and Grand-Cross aspects portray life-patterns
which always reveal a certain "circumscribing" Oil"
''fencing in'' of experience in specialized ways;
many, many years or, in some cases, an entire life-
time are utilized to experience personal application
to some particular phase of activity, relationship,
or problem. To the degree that the person can under-
stand and agree with the necessity for that phase,
as opportunity for discipline, training integration,
or redemption, will he make use of his T-Cross or
Grand-Cross pattern.
But, to the degree that he continues to resist,
resent and rebel against it will he continue to inten-
sify the difficulties implied in the "circumscribing"
quality of the experience. We must keep in mind that
no planetary aspect has frustration or limitation as
its purpose. It is we who have created the present
feeling of frustration in not having walked with our
experience in a balanced way in the past.
To bring order out of the chaos we created, Life
institutes, by the Principle of Polarity, counteractive
34 STUDIE:S IN ASTROLOGY
measures in the form of focalizing and concentrating
us in more and specialized ways so that by repetitious
and continuous application we are enabled to en-
gender processes of unconscious or conscious alchemy;
to overcome weakness by developing strength, to
dispel ignorance by garnering knowledge and under-
standing, to polish and refine the crudities of past
unregeneracies and thereby distil the consciousness
of soulic and spiritual power. We set the measures
and pace of our unfoldment but the Fm·ces and Prin-
ciples of Life, as portrayed in our planetary aspect-
patterns, provide the substance of our unfoldment-
processes in environments, relationships, and activ-
ities in which and through which we are concen-
trated and focaJized for specific phases of fulfillment
and growth.
From the objective viewpoint, the astro..;reader
in studying the registration of a T-Oross or a Grand-
Oross sees a portrait of a human who may regard
his "Cross-experiences" from one of three principal
levels: (1) helpless, hopeless endurance; (2) an-
tagonism, angry resistance and friction; (3) making
constructive use of the experience to gain training,
refinement, and growth. This is offered as a clue
toward the synthesis of the spiritual values of the
chart-depending on which one of these three views
is held by the person will the astro-reader know how
best to approach the interpretative presentation of
the tension-patterns.
One of the m-0st important points in the study
of the T-Oross is found in thinking of it as a combina-
tion of lines of force. In imagination, place yourself
at the center of a copy of the Great Mandala; around
T-CROSS .AND GR.AND CROSS .ASPECTS 35
your waist are looped three ropes the ends of which
are in the hands of three people who stand at the
.Aries cusp, the Libra Cll;sp, and the Cancer Cusp;
these three people are trying to pull you toward
them- away from your position at the center; you
are trying to keep your position and, to do so, you
must resist all three directions of pull. Aries and Li-
bra, opposite each other, represent the opposition as-
pect of the T-Cross; Cancer square to both of them, is
the "apex" of the T-Cross; if the Cancer person
dropped his rope then the tug-of-war would be only
between .Aries and Libra, but as long as Cancer also
tries to pull you, you have to try to counteract his
pull. You do so by exerting your counter-force in the
direction of- what would be-the Capricorn-point,
opposite Cancer.
Therefore, the point opposite to the apex of the
T-Cross is as important to study as any of the three
occupied points because that fourth point represents,
spiritually and psychologically speaking, the quality
which you must exercise and develop when the con-
flicts and frictions represented by the three points
of the T-Cross threaten to pull you away from your
center. It represents spiritual qualities and powers
which your Higher Self is seeking to make you aware
of in order to develop internal balance and integra-
tion. In the study of any chart containing a T-Cross
pattern give careful thought to the sign opposite the
apex and the conditions indicated by its planetary
ruler. In the study of timings (major transits, pro-
g:ressions, etc.) watch carefully for those periods
when the activations will go over the Point opposite
the apex : these timings always bring very significant
36 STUDIES IN .ASTROLOGY
opportunities-through testing-for maintaining and
developing internal poise and serenity by spiritually
polarizing the negative tendencies stirred up by the
stimulus to the T-Cross planets.
Planets are people; the patterns and tendencies
of your consciousness are stimulated or ignited by
your contacts with other people-this ignition makes
possible what we call experience. Among the most
important people in the life of one who has a T-Cross
in his natal chart are those who have planetary points
in the sign opposite to the apex-planet of the T-Cross.
Their planet-or planets-may be unregeneratively,
regeneratively, or variably aspected, but in any case,
in some degree, they represent that which the T-Cross
person is seeking to find within hiIIIBelf for greater
psychological and spiritual integrity. If the other
person's corresponding quality is unregenerate, he
will be a very significant tester to the T-Cross person;
if regenerate, he will be-potentially at least-a help-
er, an inspirer, a good example, an ideal. If his qual-
ity is variable, then study the most pronounced
tendency by timing the meeting of the two persons;
· try to determine whether the unregenerate or the
regenerate quality or tendency was most in effect
when the people concerned initiated their relation-
ship to eaeih other. You may find that the best tend-
encies of the variable person were being stimulated
at that time, indicating that his purpose in the ex-
perience of the T-Oross person is basically uplifting
and helpful. To put to use the spiritual power or
quality indicated by the sign opposite the apex of a
T-Cross is creative white magic because it represents a
very high degree of spiritual afohemy in consciousness.
T-CROSS AND GRAND CROSS ASPECTS 37
For the study and analysis of a Grand-Cross, the
suggestion is offered that you make a separate man-
dala of it and study it apart from the natal chart at
first, keeping in mind that the lines of force from the
center of the horoscope, or the mandala, indicate two
oppositions which polarize each other and four
squares which inter-act upon each other. Then for
clarity and elimination of confusion of thought, cre-
ate a mandala for each of the planets in the Grand-
Cross which will include all the natal aspects which
include the particular planet. In this way you can
dissect all the evidences of alchemistry and a re-
generative potential that may be used by the person
to gain spiritual growth from the experiences indi-
cated by the Grand-Cross. A Grand-Cross is Teally
a little horoscope within the natal- a concentration
of the forces of consciousness which, if used con-
structively and creatively, can make the present in-
carnation a very important upward step on the evolu-
tionary spiral. Its basic key-word might be stated:
evolutionarily necessary concentration of conscious-
ness and abilities for constructive use. The evil im-
plied by the Grand-Cross is by individual interpre-
tation only; its purpose is to further the individual's
good through focalization.
In conclusion there are a few special approaches
which should be taken into consideration. Increased
awareness of the powers of faith in spiritual law and
patience-the right use of Time-will be particularly
helpful to the person who has Saturn con:figurated in
a T-Cross or Grand-Cross; he must be encouraged to
practice the spiritually constructive, long-range view-
point toward his experiences because his needs for
38 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
the indicated discipline are especially urgent for his
life-time.
If the Moon is con:figurated in either of these as-
pect-patterns, then scientific knowledge concerning
the purpose and action of the instinctual mind will
be particularly helpful; because this person has un-
dertaken a big assignment, for this life-time, in clear-
ing negative residues from past lives. If the plan-
etary Ascendant ruler is configurated, the evidence
is shown that the person will experience considerable
re-focalization through physical difficulties and in-
formation concerning the occult or sp.fritual co-rela-
tions of Law with physical conditions may prove the
answer to his greatest evolutionary need. If Uranus
is a factor, then exercise in intelligent adjustment to
changes is indicated as a part of the spiritual assign-
ment-especially if Uranus is squared or opposed by
Saturn and Saturn has the predominant influence
in the chart generally. The inclusion of Jupiter in
these patterns indicates that sincerity of motivation
is to be exercised to neutralize or alchemicalize tend-
encies of false pride and unfruitful compensations.
Mercury's inclusion indicates that mental discipline
and clarification is to be distilled from the concen-
tration of experience as well as improvement in meth-
ods of communication. The Sun's inclusion in these
patterns is especially significant; the basic purpose of
the concentration of experience is to--evolutionarily
-turn the attention of the person God-ward, to re-
alize his true Source of Life and Being.
Chapter IV
THE TRINE AND THE GRAND-TRINE
ASPECTS
The Trine and Grand-Trine have regenerate cor-
respondence, respectively, to the T-Cross and Grand-
Cross Aspects. The lines connecting the three plan-
etary points of a minimum T-Cross form a triangle,
and each diameter of the square formed by the con-
necting lines of a Grand-Cross cuts the square into
two triangles. The occult difference between the two
types is that in the Cross-aspects, the principal struc-
tural angle is the right-angle of exactly or approx-
imately ninety degrees which depicts the tension,
resistance, congestion, and gravitational pull of the
Square aspect. Lines from the center of a. horoscopical
circle which touch the circumference at three points
representing planets which are exactly in Grand-
Trine aspect to each other, form three angles of 120
degrees at the circle's center. Any line connecting
two of these planetary points to each other is one of
the three sides of an equilateral triangle, identify-
ing the relationship of the two planets to each other
as being in Trine aspect. The spiritualized essence of
Trine aspects is pictorially revealed in the fact that
the three angles of a Grand-Trine are each sixty de-
grees--the numerical value of the Sextile aspect.
Since the Grand-Trine is an enclosed :figure., its de-
40 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
sign and angle-quality reveal that it is a res1dt, in
conooiorumess of previous sextilic exercises in regen-
eration and alchemy. The center-angle formed by two
radii connected to planetary points that are Trine
to each other is 120 degrees, the sum of two sextiles.
The single trine is not enclosed., but it indicates a stage
of relative equilibrium having been attained by the
person who is now, possibly, in the proeess of creat-
ing a Grand-Trine. The single Trine is evolutionary
flowering, the Grand-Trine is evolutionary fr-uitage.
We must keep in mind that the Trine and Grand-
Trine aspects portray regenerated conscious-ness of
those pure essences of Spirit represented by the plan-
ets concerned, each of which is a specialized unit for
expression and reaction. It is the realization of Spirit
that defines our evolutionary goal through experience
in the sequence of incarnations. The presence of a
Trine or Grand-Trine in a natal horoscope is evidence
of relative attainment of realization-of-Spirit on the
present cycle of evolution. By ''Spirit'' is here
meant the Divine attributes of Power, Love and
Truth which, synthesized in the word ''God,'' indi-
cate the state of pure being. Regardless of aspect-
patterns, any planetary point can be studied in terms
of its Sign-rulership, House-rulership, Sign-occupan-
cy and House-occupancy; these four factors indicate
the basic "blue-print" of the evolutionary life-assign-
ment in terms of the planet's principles and potencies
for expression and reaction. However, when the plan-
et is related to another planet by the Trine-aspect,
then the indication is given that the person has de-
veloped a fac.et of his nature and abilities through
conscious regeneration in past lives, and the aspect
TRINE AND GRAND TRINE ASPECTS 41
now portrays a relatively evolved realization of Spirit
which is to be used in the present life to alchemicalize
other factors of the personality and to contribute to
the spiritual on-going of humanity. The attainment,
by realization, of Power brings the responsibility
to use it rightly and creatively. By the law of mag-
netic attraction, the person who has a Trine aspect
in bis chart will of course aittract into his experience
those refinements, abundances, harmonizations and
happinesses which are consistent with the mode of
his realized consciousness of Good (God, Spirit) . But
that which the Trine represents as internal integrity,
spiritual autonomy, evolvement of capacity, and at-
tainment of ability must be kept in use for further
regeneration. If it is only ''taken from,'' it will be
depleted; the negative and congestive tendencies in
personality will thereby gain proportionate ascend-
ancy in consciousness.
No one can know how many lives were utilized
in which effort was made that now is indicated, as
result, by the Trine aspect in a natal chart. There-
fore, if your chart contains even one 'rrine aspect
know that you applied yourself for perhaps a long
time through specialized development and training
in Action and in the subjective realm of Thought.
That time and effort should not be wasted in the
present life by allowing those powers of conscious-
ness to ''J>rovide only pleasure and ease. '' They have
been attained, as anything is attained, for use. In the
use of Trine-qualities and Trine-powers we can re-
solve much of our karma that is heavy and dark and
serve thereby to further the en-light-enment of any
with whom we come in contact and, occultly, with Hu-
42 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
manity at large. .As we utilize and express our Trine-
abilities we induce, by the inspiration of example, the
incentive to spiritual. efforts on the part of others
who may be walking on our phase of the Path. This
is not for our persona.I self-glorification, but that we
may use our earned privileges to be cliannels for
power as love and truth.
Just as no human lives "unto himself alone," so
a Trine-aspect is significant to a chart not only by
regard to its particular planetary factom and Sign-
House placement but in correlation with every other
chart-factor. Some students reveal the interpretative
view-point that, because a chart contains a .Trine or
a Grand-Trine, "everything will turn out all right."
This viewpoint ignores the evaluation of the aspect
by synthesis with the whole chart. Let us consider
the correlative possibilities: either planetary point of
a Trine aspect may have :
No other aspect; one of the other possible aspects;
several aspects of tension and congestion; several as-
poots of regenerate quality; a variety of both kinds:
It may be dignified, being in the Sign of its rulership;
it may be disposited by another planet, being in the
Sign ruled by that planet; it may be the Ascendant-
ruler, the ''personal significator ;' ' it may be the De-
scendant ruler the "focus of complementation." If
it is in the Sign of its dignity it may be a ''single-
ton,'' having no dispositorship influence, or it may
be the dispositer of several other planets. It may be
the only ''unafflicted'' planet in the chart; it may
disposit, or be disposited by, the planet that is most
' ' afflicted. ''
The greatest spiritual and evolutionary need for
TRINE AND GRAND TRINE ASPECTS 43
the person to use and expand his use of a trined plan-
et is indicated if that planet is also one of the two
planets that makes the closest to exact square aspect.
The closest-to-exact square aspect (closest to ninety
degree orb) indicates the greatest tendency to con-
gestion, inertia, ignorance, and inner darkness. One of
its planets, bein.g also trined, must be used alchem-
ically to regenerate that phase of consciousness rep-
resented by the other planet of the square. The sug-
gestion is offered, for development of fluency, that
you create a listing of variations of Square-and-Trine
to each planet, studying them from the standpoint
of the Square as being the most needed plan for re-
generation and the Trine as being the most powerful
spiritual alchemistry. Foi· expansion of this listing,
you can combine the zodiacal Signs and the environ-
mental Houses with each planetary triad. Start with
the simple form of Square and Trine, see the Spirit-
power working on the Square through the agency
of the Trine ; the planet common to both aspects is
thereby revealed to be an evolutionary turning point.
In each group, the "turning-point planet" may be
thought of as ''mortal mind,'' in reference to the
Square aspect ; in reference to the Trine aspect, it
becomes-or is revealed to be- a mode of '' enspir-
itualizing" power. This procedure is a basic technique
for gaining fluency in perceiving alchemical poten-
tials in a horoscope; it .provides a splendidly fruitful
exercise in perceiving the right use of the Trine a.'.l-
pect. Then when you undertake to analyze actual
horoscopes, you will find yourself much more per-
ceptive to the spiritualizing and regenerating pos-
sibilities of the persons you may seek to assist. What-
44 STUDIES IN .ASTROLOGY
ever else an .Astrologer may be, he should be a mirror
of Truth to others, just as their horoscopes are mir-
rors by whieh the Truth of their life-assignments is
revealed to him. It is in this way that he uses the
trine-Powers of his astrologer-Identity in their purest
form, and that use is a continuous and ever-expand-
ing assignment. The more he prayerfully and sin-
cerely seeks Truth through exercise of mind and con-
sciousness, the more Truth he will see in horoscopes
and the more he can thereby reveal as en-light-ening
guidance.
Consideration should be given to the parallel be-
tween the Trine aspect and the point opposite the
right-angle point of a T-Cross. To illustrate: two
planets are trine to each other in ten Taurus and ten
Virgo; these are the Fixed and Mutable Signs, respec-
tively, of the Earth-Trinity-the third and Cardinal
of which is Capricorn. In this example, regenerative
induction takes place when transits and progressions
activate those degrees which are in orb of ten Capri-
corn. Such activations bring about a "temporary
Grand-Trine condition" in the chart, since the natal
Taurus-Virgo Trine is sympathetically activated from
Capricorn. It is at such timings that the person is
inwardly stimulated to expand his realization and
use of the natal Trine and, also, to ''realize happi-
ness" from what is correspondingly brought about
in his environment, relationships and endeavors.
In this illustration, there are four points (or, by
orb, "degree-areas") which, when activated, impel
the use of Trine powers. These are the 10th degrees
of .Aquarius and Leo (squaring Taurus) and the 10th
degree of Gemini and Sagittarius (squaring Virgo).
TRINE AND GRAND TRINE ASPECTS 45
Also, when the person represented by the illustration
comes in contact with someone who has those areas
occupied by planets in his chart, the Trine-power of
Taurus-Virgo is impelled into use by vibratory
induction. If the other person's planets, in orb of the
10th degree of Aquarius, Leo, Gemini or Sagittarius
are unregeneratively aspected, then the induced im-
pulsion to use the Taurus-Virgo Trine attains the
status of a spiritual testing, perhaps even initiation,
through the personal contact or the resultant rela-
tionship-experience. This is given as a simple example
to illustrate an important point in correlating a natal
Trine with other horoscopical factors. It can be used
as a ''spring-board'' into the consideration of more
complex inter-weaving of planetary force.
The principle of subjective polarity is interest-
ingly combined with Trine-power in the following il-
lustration: a natal chart having planetary placements
in, or in orb of the 10th degree of Taurus, Scorpio,
Virgo and Pisces. This pattern reveals two inter-act-
ing Opposition aspects, Taurus-Scorpio and Virgo-
Pisces; two Sextiles, Pisces-Taurus and Virgo-Scor-
pio; two Trines, Taurus-Virgo and Scorpio-Pisces.
This is an extremely interesting example of alchemy
at work in human consciousness because relative
spiritualizations (the Trines) and alchemical po-
tentials (the Sextiles) work hand-in-hand with the
two inter-related Oppositions, which represent a
double pattern of tension. In this example, activa-
tions in Capricorn will trine the Earth-points and
sextile the Water-points; activations in Cancer will
trine the Water-points and sextile the Earth-points.
When an activation conjuncts one of the planets
46 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
of this pattern, the entire implication of the four-
point aspect is ''ignited,'' and it is well to study
other current activations to determine, as clearly as
possible, the fullest significance of the timing of the
conjunction. The Oppositions in this type of com-
pound aspect ''give the Trines and Sextiles some-
thing to work on'' and they insure that the life of
the person will contain a considerable variety of ex-
perience and endeavor. Connec.tion of the four plan-
etary points, on the circle's circumference, by straight
lines results in the formation of a rectangle enclosing
two diameters, just as the Grand-Cross forms a rec-
tangle enclosing two diameters, the difference between
them being that the former is patterned by two Trines
and two Sextiles, the latter is patterned by four
Squares. One might suppose that the '' Trine-Sextile''
rectangle is evidence that a previous Grand-Cross has
been alchemicalized by regenerative endeavors ; or
that, if the Trines and Sextiles are not exercised in
the present life, the pl'esent rectangle could become
a Grand-Cross in the future. The inclusion of two
opposition aspects in both of these rectangular for-
mations indicates that considerable polarization-one
way or the other-is being effected in the present
incarnation.
Of the individual Trine-aspects, in pure evalua-
tion, there is none that represents greater ''advan-
tage in consciousness" than a Trine aspect to the Sun
and especially if this ''planetary Sun'' has no squares
or oppositions. There may be much dark and heavy
destiny represented by the Moon and other planets,
but when the Sunpoint is clear and trined, the person
has access to a free flow of Spirit power in and
TRINE .AND GR.AND TRINE ASPECTS 47
through his consciousness. If the Sunpoint is trined
and squared, we see the evidence of a great spiritual
test in this life: the consciousness of Power chal-
lenged by a tenden<}y to misuse or abm;e it. Such a
person would do well to keep himself spiritually at-
tuned by concentration or meditation on the lives
and characters of eminent persons who have had
great power and have used it wisely, creatively and
spiritually.
Correlation with the rest of the chart is especially
important in the study of the Grand-Trine. Of itself,
it represents an established pattern of internal poise
and equilibrium. But if the dynamic factors of the
chart lack aspect-scope or if the Moon, Venus and
Earth-Signs are particularly strong, then the Grand-
Trine could depict a tendency to take things too
easily for progress. A static or quiescent chart can
represent a lifetime characterized by restfulness after
perhaps several lives of great effort and activity-
a sort of "evolutionary Sabbatical." A Grand-Trine
in such a chart seems to say : "I've worked hard for a
long time and now I'm going to enjoy rest for a
while.''
Other types of charts can indicate, by aspect-
correlation, that the person brings in a Grand-Trine
to alchemicalize great areas of unfulfilled or unregen-
erate destiny. In which case, be will be impelled-for
survival and resolution-to put to use the full extent
of his Grand-Trine powers and abilities, in term of his
own individual on-going in relationship to his race
and to Humanity in general. A comparative correla-
tion of Saturn with the Dynamic Factors-Sun, Mars,
Jupiter and Uranus-in sympathy or contrast with
48 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
the Grand-Trine is important to this type of chart.
If Saturn is one of the Grand-Trine Planets, then the
powers of patience, practicality, conscientiousness, and
thoroughness are indicated to be part of the en-
spiritualizing equipment. But if Saturn contrasts
with the Grand-Trine, then the picture is shown in
a general way that old, deep karmic conditions must
be resolved by the regenerating exercise of the Grand-
Trine powers.
Chapter V
THE VARIABLE ASPECTS
In addition to the five major aspect-patterns
(conjunction, sextile, square, trine, and opposition)
there are three others with which the astrological
student should be acquainted for more complete
evaluation of horoscopes. They are the semi-sextile
and semi-sqiiare and the quincunx. The semi-sextile
and semi-square are "young" aspects. The quincunx
is particularly important from an alchemical stand-
point; it is the most variable of all aspect-patterns
and is of prime importance to all astrological study
pertaining to '' inertia versus propulsion'' in con-
sciousness. It is the one aspect-pattern which, in it-
self, illustrates alchemical potential which is stim-
ulated in variable ways by rhythmic activations.
First, we will consider the real meaning of ''as-
pect-pattern. ' ' The Sun, Moon, and planets-as
" planetary points"-represent the faculties and
powers for expression and reaction on all planes of
human fiinctioning. As such they are the expressive
focalizers of the zodiacal signs. For clarity in writing
and reading, we indicate their symbols inside the
circle of the horoscope, but actually these symbols
should be accurately placed on the circumference
of the circle, because the study of astrology considers
the zodiacal position of the planets as seen from the
50 STUDIES IN .ASTROLOGY
Earth. If it were possible to do so, the planetary as-
pects would be depicted by straight lines drawn from
the center of the horosoopical circle to the planetary
points accurately indicated on the circumference.
The numerical degree of the angle made at the cen-
ter by any two "planetary lines" is the planetary
aspect. We may consider as valid an orb of eight
degrees for the five major aspect-patterns, six degrees
for the quincunx, and a maximum of three degrees
for the semi-sextile and semi-square aspects.
In imagination you are standing in the exact cen-
ter of your room. On the floor around you is drawn
a large circle of which you are the center. On the
circumference of this circle are placed the zodiacal
symbols that are indicated on the cusps of your natal
chart. You face due north-to the cusp of your fourth
house; you make a quarter turn to the right-and
face your .Ascendant; another quarter turn to the
right to face your Midheaven; another quarter to
the right to face your Descendant, cusp of your
seventh house; one more quarter-turn to the right
again to face your fourth cusp. Straight lines are
drawn on the floor from the exact center, upon which
you are standing, to each of ten points on the cir-
cumference representing your planetary-point posi-
tions. The lines which are connected to any two plan-
etary points which indicate a square aspect will form,
exactly or approximately an angle of ninety degrees
at the center where you are; each trine aspect will
reveal an angle of one hundred and twenty degrees,
etc. As you turn yourself to see each of your aspects
in sequence you get a different "viewpoint" of your
chart1 and a planetary aspect in your chart means
THE VARIABLE ASPECTS 51
"viewpoint in consciousness." As you face each as-
pect which includes, for example, your Mars, you
have to turn yourself at the center where you stand.
In life and experience, as you are called upon to deal
with qualities in yourself which pertain to the prin-
ci;ple of Mars, you have to adjust your viewpoint
to events, people, environments, and subjective con-
ditions. If your home is the nuclear center of your
life-environment, remember that as you look out of
each window of your house you perceive a different
aspect of your exterior environment; in other words,
you see your exterior environment from a slightly
different viewpoint as you look out through each of
the various windows.
So it is with your chart; each planetary rela-
tionship represents a quality of viewpoint, centered
in your consciousness, by which you tend to regard
and interpret the principles of life. To regenerate
your viewpoint so that you can appreciate and in-
terpret your experience more truthfully would cor-
respond to the action of thoroughly washing the win-
dows of your house so that you can see your exterior
environment without impediment or obstruction. By
a comprehension of the meanings of your planetary
aspects you can intelligently use your timings for
alchemical exercise and regenerative endeavors. There
are periodic timings throughout your life when each
planetary aspect is emphasized by the various types
of stimulus and ignition in order that you may have
the opportunities to ''wash the windows of your
soul.' ' This ''washing'' is regeneration of conscious-
ness, the universal alchemy of the Spirit.
The semi-sextile aspect is exactly what the term
52 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
implies: half a sextile. Its symbol is the horizontal
and the two upper diagc>nals of the sextile aspect,
like a ''V'' standing on a horizontal line. Because
everything in life starts from a process of germina-
tion, all aspect-patterns st3Jl't from the vibratory
fusion we call the conjunction; from this vibratory
unification or ''joining. of forces,'' the planets regis-
ter the various aspect~patterns from life to life in
accordance with the way you use your consciousness
and mind. The semi-sextile is the promise of the sex-
tile, which in turn is the mechanism for the genera-
tion of the trine; it is like the delicate green leaf
which is externalized on the tree-branch at spring-
time, the promise of blossom and fruit to come. The
registration of a semi-sextile in your chart is the in-
dication that you have already started, in the .past,
a regenerative program concerning your conscious-
ness of the planetary principles involved. Know that
it is up to you to handle that ''delicate green leaf''
with care, to cultivate its qualities with thoughtful-
ness and patience, to make yourself constantly more
and more aware of its evidences in your life. Give
meditative spiritual consideration to the principles
represented by the planets concerned and the signs
they rule ; having already made the regenerative
start, you will naturally want to persevere in appre-
hending the spiritual values indicated as potential
by this aspect.
Remember that the semi-sextile, in comparison
with the other aspects, is like a young child in rela-
tion to older boys and girls, adolescents, young men
and women, parents, and elders. It is ''impression-
able" just as a child is, it can be easily marred"
..
THE VARI.ABLE ASPECTS 53
if it is not tended and eared for with understanding
and consideration. With spiritual diligence and un-
wavering patience, it is possible that in the course of
one life-time the person who "tends his semi-sextile"
can unfold a degree of spiritual understanding or
awareness that would correspond to a sextile aspect
between the two planets. In other words, his next-life
horoscope would register the sextile aspect. This is
comparable to seeing the first evidence of the blossom
duriiig the course of a day-the unmistakable evi-
dence that the blossom has appeared when this morn-
ing there was only the leaf. You first become aware
of yowr divine seZf in a new phase of evolution
throogh your semi-sextiZe-the childhood of your
"Christ Within" being externalized through your
COI1Bciousness. We owe to our semi-sextiles the same
kind of consideration that we tend to give to anything
that is young, delicate and impressionable; its growth
must be carefully fostered and nurtured, perhaps
over a long period of time, through many stages of
development. But the goal is the ultimate fruition
whfoh we identify astrologically as the trine aspect-
the "viewpoint" by which Power, Love, and Truth
are apprehended in terms of internal equilibrium,
beauty, eaipacity, a1fluence, and joy. The exact semi-
sextile aspect is thirty degrees; by orb, twenty-seven
to thirty-three degrees. It is interesting to note that
the cusps of the twelve houses are in sequences of
thirty degrees as are the first degrees of earch of the
zodiacal signs.
The semi-square aspect (exact, forty-five de-
grees; by orb, forty-two to forty-eight degrees) re-
quires a little geocentric consideration. As seen from
54 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
the EMth, the semi-square is the largest of the valid
aspoots which can. be made between Venus and Sun.
The Sun, Moon, and all other planets can form the
semi-square1to each other. (The sextile is the largest
geocentric aspect p-0ssible between Mercury and Ve-
nus.) The semi-square-half of a square-is a warn-
ing; like the semi-sextile it is a "young aspect." The
tiny cavity in the t.ooth which, if not corrected, be-
comes in time a dental horror, or the first evidence
of rot in the tree which, if allowed to spread, kills it,
a;re fairly good illustrative analogies. The semi-square
in the naJtal horoscope is evidence that the person
has begun to congest on those awaren1!8Ses of spiritual
principle represented by the planets concerned. It
is as though the person in the past, sought to experi-
ment with life through ignorance of what he was
really dealing with, and now the semi-square holds
up a w8Jrning :finger and says "Stop, Look and Lis-
ten.'' The old maxim, ''A stitch in time saves nine,''
is applicable to the semi-square's indications ; mend
that little run in the stocking of your soul now-this
life-or you will risk ruining the stocking. The semi-
square is evidenee of gathering tension, the appear-
anee on the horizon of the cloud which might bring
rain and spoil your picnic plans. You cain't do any-
thing about the storm-cloud, but if you don't want
to risk having a disappointing experience you will
postpone your picnic plans until you know for sure
how the weather will be. In other words, you won't
stubbornly go ahead with plans when you have the
evidence that postponement would be a more prac-
tical measure. The experience of feeling a growing
progression of fear or anger is like the meaning of
•
THE VARIABLE ASPECTS 55
the semi-square; while the emotion is still intensify-
ing it can be dealt with and controlled or trans-
muted, but after it reaches a certain degree of in-
tensity, the astral potency overwhelms your mental-
directive power and you plunge into an experience
cha.racterized by considerable pain and suffering. If
you have occasion to deal with a chart containing
several semi-squares keep the thought of past experi-
rnentation through ignorance in mind as an interpre-
tive key; such a registration indicates that this
present life will contain, for the person, many oppor-
fonities to learn from the evidence of instinctuan
negative tendencies but which must be deait with
regeneratively now or suffer grave consequenc-es in
future. Of course the two planets of any semi-square
aspect may be regeneratively aspected in many ways
by other points in the chart, but the semi-square
1·egisters a negative tendency. Understanding of it is
necessary so that the person may-in this present
life-know what he is dealing with inside of himself,
rather than continuing on the path of ignorance and
un-awareness that may have characterized his ex-
perience in the past in certain ways. Since you, as
the astrological reader, stand as a personalized sym-
bol to the person of awareness and knowledge, study
the semi-squares by a careful correlation with aU re-
generative indication in the chart-from semi-sextile
to trine - that are involved with the semi-square
planets. Look, with the eyes of your Spirit, at that
semi-square as though you were a dentist studying
a small cavity as pictured in an X-ray-your job as
a reader is to understand that warning as completely
as possible.
56 STUDIES IN .ASTROLOGY
The quincunx (exact, 150 degrees, five signs ; by
orb, 144 to 156 degrees) is a fascinating astrological
factor; it is like a ''coat of many colors,'' a kaleido-
scope and a chameleon all in one. Several pictorial
symbols have been devised for it ; the author suggests
the following: the composite of the symbol for the
semi-sextile aspect with a down-ward vertical from
the center. These lines would correspond to the cusps
of .Aries, .Aquarius, Sagittarius, Libra and Cancer
of the Great Mandala and the picture it presents
suggests an unfolded flower on a vertical stem. The
quincunx is the only aspect that pictures alchemy
within itself because the 150 degrees of its exact scope
are primarily focalized by the ninety degrees of the
square and the sixty degrees of the sextile. It also
implies the possibilities of the following aspect-se-
quences: :five semi-sextiles, semi-sextile and trine,
trine and semi-sextile, sextile and square, square and
sextile. The following formula may be applied to
each of the zodiacal signs as a starting point:
Aries quincunx Virgo. Aries semi-sextile Taurus,
Taurus trine Virgo. Aries trine Leo, Leo semi-sexti"le
Virgo. Aries sextile Gemini, Gemini SquMe Virgo.
Aries square Cancer, Caneer sextile Virgo. Semi-sex-
tiles: Aries-Taurus-Gemini-Caneer-Leo-Virgo.
Another formula, picturing the quincunx within
the Great Mandala is this: Aries quineunx Virgo.
Scorpio quineunx Aries. Virgo sextile Scorpio.
Two quincunx aspects which both include one
particular zodiacal sign total the entire zodiac when
the sixty degrees of the sextile are added to them.
.AIJ the ''variation'' of alchemy which is depicted by
the contents of each 150-degree aspect is thus shown
THE VARIABLE ASPECTS 57
to have self-directed regeneration as the key-note.
In other words the degree of realization of complete-
ness implied as potential by the qidncunx is made
possible only through self-regeneration. It is suggested
particularly to those students who as yet have not
"done very much" with the quincunx aspect, that
a complete tabulation of the above-mentioned zo-
diacal formulas be prepared for memorization and
use in chart-analysis. (Considerable mental :fluency
is promised thereby!) An incisive, fluent mental grasp
of zodiacal factors is required for the study and
interpretation of the quincunx aspect because of the
great variation implied by it. To concentrate one's
knowledge and perception of the quincunx is to ex-
pand automatically one's fluency with all other as-
pect-patterns.
For practical astrological use, the quincunx is
most important in the study of timings. As a natal
aspect it pictures a potential of alchemical variation;
when studied in terms of activations it reveals a con-
tinual periodic emphasis which alternates the yet-to-
be-regenerated factors and the relatively regenerated
factors. A simple illustration: Sun in 15 Aries, quin-
cunx Saturn in 15 Virgo; 15 Gemini : sextile Sun,
square Saturn; 15 Cancer: square Sun, sextile Sat-
urn; 15 Sagittarius : trine Sun, square Staurn.
15 Capricorn: square Sun, trine Saturn. The 150
degrees of each exact quincunx a.re zodiarally
counterparted by the remaining 210 degrees which
include a two-fold sequence of square and trine to
the natal quincunx planets. Within the 150 degree
area, sextilic powers are to be employed to regenerate
the square tendencies ; in the 210 degree area;: trine
58 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
powers are used to alchemical.ize the square tend-
encies. In the above Sun-Saturn illustratfon, it would
appewr that the unfoldment of spiritualized executive
power and abi'lity is the purpose of the quincunx by
experiences aJJ.d training in leadership,. personal au-
tonomy, responsibility fulfillment in work and de-
velopment of the power of patience. By combining
the essential spiritual key-words pertaining to the
two planets of a quincunx aspect, the spiritual or
evolutionary purpose of the alchemical exercises may
be discerned. From this approach it may be clearly
seen that the quincunx is really not a "minor" aspect
at all because it is a registration of opportunity in
this life to effect very significant transmutations in
consciousness. It is like the framework of a building
whic.h, depending upon what is put into it and how
that equipment is used, can become a hovel or a fovely
home.
Chapter VI
IN'r E.ItCEPTIONS
.Astrology, at its simplest, is complexity piled
upon complexity. In the minds of many students,
however, the problems of interceptions proves to be
a complication of back-breaking quality. This ma-
terial is offered as food for thought in an attempt
to clarify the purpose and meaning of signs and
planets being placed in such a way that their vibra-
tory ''area'' does not touch house-cusps. '' Intercep-
tions'' can mean ''woe is us'' until we perceive the
possibility of a philosophical meaning behind this
particular patterning. When we do, we are well on
our way to achieving an organized approach to its
interpretation.
First, a break-down of horoscopical structure.
Use a twelve-housed wheel ; connect by straight lines
the pairs of cusps as follows :
Four horizontals- parallel to the horizontal di-
ameter: cUBps of 11th-9th, 12th-8th, 2nd-6th and
3rd-5th.
Four verticals-parallel to the vertical diameter:
cusps of 12th-2nd, 11th-3rd, 9th-5th and 8th-6th.
The mandala as it now appears symbolizes the
symmetry of astrological structure. These lines con-
nect points of the circumference of the wheel that
are equidistant from the arch-structure lines of the
60 STUDIES IN .ASTROLOGY
horizontal and vertical diameters. These, in turn,
form the composite of the lines of force that are basic
to the contents o.f the wheel. These two diameters
symbolize the cross of incarnation. Now create a
symmetrical square by connecting these ''cardinal
points'' by straight lines. This square is the abstrac-
tion of relationship-structure, our "field of experi-
ences" by which we unfold our potentials in incarna-
tion. Create another symmetrical square by connect-
ing the mid-points of the 2nd, 5'th, 8th, and 11th
houses. This forms the symbol of the static square-
the arch-symbol of congestion of spiritual potentials.
This congestion is decrystallized by the symbol com-
prised of the diameters of 1st-7th, 3rd-9th, and 5th-
llth. This symbol-the sextile aspect-is a symmet-
rical open symbol representing the ''lines of force''
inherent in the composite of two closed equilateral
triangles; these two triangles are formed by straight
lines connecting (1) cusps of the 1st, 5th, and 9th and
(2) 7th, 11th, and 3rd.
.All of these designs are balanced, symmetrical
figures inherent in the interior essence of the wheel.
Since they aire structure designs they apply to all
horoscopes, because the structure of any horoscope
is a twelvefold division of the wheel's interior into
equal sections-''houses' '-of thirty degrees each.
The composite of these designs illustrates, by sym-
metry, the equal importance of all houses. No one
house is more important than another; every house
is a channeling for the releasement of potentials and
the unfoldment of consciousness toward the realiza-
tion of ideals in incarnation. It also serves, by its
symmetry, to illustrate the equi-importance of both
INTERCEPTIONS 61
sexes since the symmetry of these figures is continu-
ally evident no matter which of the four cardinal-
house structure-points is placed at the Ascendant.
To complete the ''symmetricalness'' we now add
the symbols of the zodiacal signs outside the wheel,
starting with Aries on the cusp of the first house and
continuing around the wheel in regular sequence.
The result is the Great Astrological Mandala-the
abstraction from which all horoscopes are derived.
T'his addition of the zodiacal signs integrates vibra-
tion with structure. We now recognize that the ap-
plication of thirty degrees of each sign to the thirty
degrees of each house represents a charging of stru.c-
ture with vibratory life just as a house becomes a
home when it is used as a habitation by people and
a violin becomes a musical instrument when it is
played.
In a horoscope that has no intercepted signs the
symmetrical parallel of signs with houses is every-
where evident. The three structure-crosses: cardinal,
fixed, and mutable, and the four generic trines: fire,
erurth, air, and water, appear in re,gular sequence and
in geometrical formation ; the six structural diameters
parallel the six vibrational polarities, the house-quad-
rants parallel the zodiacal quadrants and the outline
of planetary rulership of the twelve houses is concise
and cleaJ'. The trine-pattern. represented by the vi-
brational generic element covering the cusps of the
1st, 5th, and 9th houses represents the arch-resource
of creative spiritualization for this incarnation. The
"structure-sign-pattern" represented by the sign-
vibrations covering the cusps of the 1st, 4th, 7th,
and 10th cusps represent the arch-resource of Re-
62 STUDIBS IN ASTROLOGY
lationship-Cons.ciousness and Relationship-Experi-
ence-Interpretation.
Before we go into a detailed approach to inter-
cepted patterns, we will consider the pattern of the
twelfth house--iu relationship by sequence--of any
house in a horoscope.
Let us remember that every house is the twelfth
house of the house which follows it; every sign is the
twelfth sign of the sign which follows it; in horo-
scope.<;, signs are correlated to houses---so (for
example):
Leo on the twelfth cusp is the twelfth house-sign
of the Virgo Ascendant; Gemini on the eighth cusp
is the twelfth house-sign of Cancer on the ninth
cusp, etc.
Twelfth house is ''that from which something
emanates. '' The Ascendant itself ''emanates'' from
the twelfth house as the diameter of Ascendant-7th
cusp emanates from the diameter of 4th cusp-10th
cusp or as the trine of Aries-Leo emanates from th('
trine of Sagittarius-Aries or as the quadrant of Libra-
Capricorn emanates from the quadrant of Cancer-
Libra. And so on. In the Great Mandala, the fire trine
of Aries-Leo-Sagittarius, initiated by the cardinal
Aries, emanates from the water-trine Pisces-Cancer-
Scorpio; the latter trine is initiated in the past by
the oordinal Cancer, ''root'' of the vertical line of
''vibrational heredity.'' This vertical diameter-
abstractly Cancer-Capricorn-out of which Aries-
Libra is emanated-is astrology's symbolic picturing
of what most people call " ·heredity."
The processes of Life as evolution are a continual
emergence from that which was (the past) into that
INTERCEPTIONS 63
which now is (the present) and thence into that which
is to be (the future). Nothing "just appears;" that
which was conditioned that which is; that which is
is conditioning that which is to be. The sequence of
houses correlated with the sequence of signs is as-
trology's way of picturing the sequence of life's ever-
becomingness as continual releasement of potentials.
In other words the horoscope is a static symbol of
the eternally rhythmic (the symmetry of time) emer-
gence .of potentials from octave to octave in perpetual
unfoldingness.
Therefore, when the unfoldingness of an indi-
vidual human is thrown out of rhythmic timing a
defect results in the synchronization of sign with
house. For whatever karmic reason or consciousness-
conditioning, the emphasis of one level of unfold-
ment at the expense of another has the effect of in-
tercepted signs appearing in the natal horoscope as
a picturing of structural-vibratory defect.
To illustrate: use any chart you have available
that has an intercepted diameter. Apply the approach
explained in the foregoing by connecting the
''points'' that represent the structure of the crosses
and trines. Somewhere along the line you will see
a defect in the symmetry of these designs because
somewhere a cross-point or a trine-point will not
coincide with a house-cusp. Thus the vibrational-
content of the wheel is thrown out of symmetry and
the sequence-content of the wheel is thrown out of
rhythm. There are varying degrees of complexity and
difficulty in interpreting "intercepted charts" as in
anything else. Let us sec if we can organize an out-
line of approach, starting with the easiest:
64 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
Type 1-A: The horoscope has the eusps of the
first, fourth, seventh, and tenth houses covered by
a perfect vibrational cr~rdinal, fixed or mu-
table. In this :pattern the composite "generator"
(fourth-tenth) and the composite "generated" (first-
seventh) coincide with four quadrants of the zodiac
and the clarity of basic relationship-structure is
pictured.
Type 1-B: The above requirements are depicted
in the Basic Generic Chart. This is a variation of the
natal chart by which the sign con:t.a.ining the natal
planetary ruler is used as Ascendant. This variation
focuses the power of the vibratory ruler of the chart
-the planet that rules that sign.
Type 2-three possibilities: A-a perfect generic
trine covers the cusps of the first, fifth, and ninth
. houses; B-a perfect generic trine oovers ~e cusps
of the seventh, eleventh, and third houses; C--a per-
fect generic trine focused structurally at either the
cusp of the fourth house or the cusp of the tenth. In
all of these classifications, the problem of intercepted
signs is oomparatively minimized because the arch-
symbols of cross and/or trine are synchronized with
the basic structure-points of the wheel. When the
placement of intercepted signs ''creates a disturb-
ance" in the relationship of sign-sequence with
house-sequence of the structure-points, the interpre-
tation problem becomes more complex. Study your
intercepted-sign charts with an eye as to the relation-
ship of a complete cross or a complete trine by se-
quence from the Ascendant. In other words, :find out
how close the intercepted-sign chart comes to ful-
filling the requirements of symmetrical design; in so
.•
INTERCEPTIONS 65
doing, you mentally reduce to a minimum the '' haz-
ards'' presented by the complexities of ''irregular-
ity'' in the wheel.
' ' Past evil impelling the present incarnation''
is pictured abstractly by a mandala as foilows: a
twelve-housed wheel with Aries on the Ascendant;
the symbols for the mutaible signs are placed ap-
propriately on the cusps of the mutable houses. In
other words the modulation for further regeneration
is shown by the square of the mutable houses focalized
by the moot mutable of those four signs-Pisces-as
the ''end of the previous cycle'' out of which the
present one emanates. Apply this thought to any
horoscope : which cross appears as the composite of
modulations from each quadrant of the wheel into
the next quadrant~ This cross has much to say about
the needed redemptions required for the quadrants
initiated by the cardinal houses- as the entire horo-
scope is initiated from the twelfth house into the first
house. Each mutable house is the karmic background
for the ensuing quadrant; the signs covering these
cusps represent the four-fold congestion of conscious-
ness which is focalized in the chart by the planets
ruling those signs.
As a result of an intercepted diameter in a chart,
there will be two pairs of houses covered by the same
diameter. Wherever this "phenomenon" occurs, you
will know that the houses concerned in this '' duplica-
tion'' represent experience-patterns on which the
person concerned is "making up for past defaults;"
in .other words the two houses having the lower de-
gree of the sign of their cusps will portray the past;
the two houses having the higher degree on the cusps
66 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
will portray the unfulfilled past projected into the
present. Such a pattern tells us also that the influence
of the planets ruling the intercepted signs is to a
degree, "held in abeyance" until a certain degree of
redemption has been made. The planets ruling the
duplicated cusps are, correspondingly ''made to work
overtime;" in the case of Venus and Mercury-each
of whom normally rules two signs-their influence
can extend to three houses and their significance in
the sum-total of the wheel is increased. Just as-in
human terms--if Johnny ''flunks an exam'' in school,
he has to study with added application to make up
his work in that subject.
It is very interesting to study charts that have
the same sign on twelfth as is on the Ascendant.
These charts have two principal classifications: (1)
those with the succeeding sign intercepted in the
:first house; (2) those with the succeeding sign on
the second cusp. The first classification tells us that
the person may hav-e been out of incarnation for an
unusually long time; he has to "tie in" with his past
in this incarnation, recapitulate something of his past
mistakes-if the ruler of the twelfth house and As-
cendant is congested, learn from his mistakes, apply
more constructive measures and then move in se-
quence to the progressive vibration represented by
the sign intercepted in the first house. This pattern
promises progress in this incarnatfon but it also
promises that the person, subconsciously tending to
live this incarnation in terms of his past, will bring
himself to a "blank wall"-the power of congestion
representing that the resources from the past have
become depleted; his natural urge to progress will be
INTERCEPTIONS 67
timed for awareness to the potentials represented by
the intercepted sign in the first house, and, tuning in
with this vibration will represent a ''new life'' in
consciousness. He then, largely, will feel the urge
to "leave the past" and throw in his lot with the
''vibratory companion'' represented by the planetary
influence of the intercepted sign in the first house.
This pattern also qualifies his marital consciousness
since the first house interception has its complement
intercepted in the seventh. It is a twofold awareness
of new life and his complementary-relationship con-
sciousness must unfold and progress if he is really
to transcend the gravitational or congested pull of
past negatives. If the second cusp is covered by the
next sign in sequence, then we know that the person
is destined in this incarnation to express a higher
octave of quality of his past, and if the interception
in his chart indicates that the cusp of his fourth or
tenth house is in the same generic.· trine that his As-
cendant-sign is in, we know that that parent-father
or mother-represents an outpicturing of the best of
the person's past as a ,contribution to the best of his
development in this incarnation. No one ever exactly
repeats a level from one incarnation to the next--
upwardness is always a factor to be considered in
karmic interpretation.
From a practical standpoint, there is not much
more that can be said here as interpretation of the
various possible placements of intercepted diameters.
You as an astrological student, thinker, and philos-
opher must exercise the capacity of your own aware-
ness of structure principles in application to the
charts you analyze.
68 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
Structure-structure-structure is your key to find-
ing the significance of intercepted signs and the plan-
ets they contain. Find as many ''regularities'' and
''symmetries'' as you can in each chart of this type--
by reference to patterns of cross and trine-and then
study sequence so that you can determine the pos-
sibilities of why one diameter may represent a ''hold-
ing back" or a "promise of future development" in
this incarnation. The duplicated diameters-when
they are lined up with structure-sequence-will in-
dicate which pair of houses represents a condition
from the past that must be repeated-for completer
fulfillment-in the present.
Elasticize your awareness of horosoopical struc-
ture. You will-or can-be thrilled by this stimulus
of your intellect and your resource of esthetie sen-
sitivity and understanding. The rhythm, sequence, de-
sign and drama that are pictured in the Astrological
Mandala are archetypal of all artistic principles; and,
in a more specific philosophical sense, they picture
the magnificent flow of Life-Principles as it outpie-
tures the great Universal. Laws of Oause and Effect,
Polarity, and Divine Harmony.
·-
Chapter VII
BASIC RELATIONSHIP-STRUCTURE
As food for thought, we suggest consideration of
this statement, as introduction to a discussion of re-
lationship-patterns: There are only two basic qualities
of relationship: (1) Measurement- " Time-Space"
(which does not concern this study); (2) Vibration-
wbich is our subject. Of the vibratory q1~ · ,:ity thc~re
are only two basic types: (1) That of macrocosm
and microcosm to each other; (2) the fraternity of
microcosms to each other.
The first type is so considered because the Un-
knowable has no fraternity with anything else; it en-
closes all that is-" all that is" is its expression. How-
ever, on every lower octave the Unknowable expresses
Itself in myriads of types of microcosms, each of
which is fraternal to the others and each of which is
''macrocosm'' to the octaves lower than themselves ;
i.e., ''their own microcosms.''
We will consider a hypothetical "line-up" in
order to picture these myriads of microcosms. First,
the Unknowable Itself. Its picture will be a dot--of
theoretically no dimension- placed in the exact cen-
ter of a piece of paper. We have no simpler way of
out-picturing the Source of All. Then, the central
dot is enclosed by the circumference of a perfect
circle. The circle is then seen to represent the perfect
70 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
existence of the Unknowable: Life and Nature; Cre-
ativity and Manifestation; Positive and Negative;
Cause and Effect. Polarity, then, can· he thought of
as the "Life-action," the "Being-ness," of the Un-
knowable. It is the macrocosm.ic dimension; all other
dimensions are its microcosms. It is the essential bi-
unity by which unity expresses its potentials.
The mandala, so far, pfotures with 'utmost clarity
and simplicity the ALL-ness of Life, in composite.
Now we will consider the mandala in its essential
picturing of ''Macrocosm-to-Microcosm.''
From the central dot, draw a horizontal radius
to the left. This radius is the Unknowable's expression
of its potentials to the extreme octave of physical
manifestation. This radius represents, by its point
on the circumference, the ''farthest from the Source
that the Unknowable can project itself." From that
point, the travel around the cirde 's circumference
(counter-clock-wise) is the delineation of evolution-
ary prooesses by the releasement of potential. The
radius, in short, is ''the mandala of microcosm''-
the composite of all possible expressions of the
Unknowable.
(There is only one radius in each circle ; all other
radii are emanations of the one. Prove this by creat-
ing a circle with a compass; the instant you place
the pencil-point on the paper you have established
the radius of the circle. The circle is created (ema-
nated) by moving the pencil-point through space and
time to make the complete pfoture ; you have used
no other radius but the one you started with.)
We have no way of knowing what the extent of
the Unknowable's :first octave of expresfilon can pos-
BASIC RELATIONSHIP STRUCTURE 71
sibly be. But, since we must use specific words to
convey ideas we will simply think of this octave as
''The Universe.'' Then, referring to the mandala,
the point of the radius is seen to be the body of the
Unknowable- the totality of the circle will represent
the fulfillment of all potentials inherent in the
Unknowable.
Since this mandala is archetypal, we can-and will
-use it as the symbol of Life-expression on all lower
octaves, the first of which we will designate as ''arch-
galaxy. '' The radius of the circle now pi0tures the
composite potentials of every individual arch-galaxy
-which is "fraternal" to every other arch-galaxy.
The microcosm of the arch-galaxy we will think of as
"galaxy" and the radius is then the potential of each
galaxy, all galaxies being fraternal to each other.
Then we oonsider the radius as the .potential of, shall
we say, all solar-systems which are microcosmic ex-
pressions of the galaxies, all solar-systems, by their
archetypal pattern being fraternal to each other;
then the composite of all planetary bodies which are
microcosmic to the solar Logos of each solar system,
all planets of each system being fraternal to each
other.
Now because we are primarily concerned with
human beings, the radius is seen to be the picturing
of the potentials inherent in the logoic idea we call
"Humanity"-the highest octave of evo,
lutionary
potential on this particular planet. The radius is now
seen to represent all human beings manifesting within
the etheric envelope of, and on the surface of the
Earth. Every other radius which might be pictured
in the circle is an emanation from the arch-point of
72 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
consciousness which we refer to as "I A.M"-the
recognition of bei.ngness as an expression of a perfect
idea in the mind of our Father-Mother God.
The ''fraternity of microcosms'' is now pictured
by this mandala as the arch-symbol of humanity in-
carnate; its design is the same for all human beings,
who, by Law, incarnate in the bi-une dimension of
measurement (time-space) and polarity (masculine..
feminine vibration). Each of these factors is inter-
dependent upon the other one: incarnation is not
made-nor can it be made-without both.
So far, we have the vibratory fulfillment-potential
of each human being as an expression of his/her
macrocosm-the .Ascendant of his/ her horoscope.
The idea we call humanity carries out the bi-une
vibratory relationship-pattern in this way: The re-
lationship of macrocosm to microcosm. is evidenced in
the relationship, to each other, of parent and child.
In other words by polarity : the relationship, to each
other, of father/mother to son/daughter. This pat-
tern is "type one" as the arch-relationship structure
of all human beings to each other; all other relation-
ships aire fraternal derivations of this one.
Since physical sex is a specialization of the com-
posite we .call ''gender,'' we recognize that every
human being, in his/her inner nature functions in
the universal dimension of bi-polarity. Every male
and every female composites the masculine/feminine
vibratory qualities. To be "masculine" is to impreg-
nate, to project, to express, to stimulate; to be fem-
inine, is to be impregnated, to serve as object for the
projection, to embody the expression, to be stimu-
lated, to reflect that which was cast forth.
BASIC RELATIONSHIP STRUCTURE 73
We will now amplify our mandala to outpicture,
astrologically, this ''arch-relationship-pattern.''
Extend the radius to the right, creating the hor-
i21ontal diameter; draw the vertical diameter, creating
the ''cross of incarnation.'' Place the symbol for
Aries at what is now the Ascendant-point, Libra op-
posite, Cancer at the bottom of the wheel, and Capri-
corn at the top. We now have the circle quadrated
by the cardinal signs- the new-direction points; the
radii are the four basic ways of saying ''I AM;'' the
diameters are the two basic ways of saying ''WE
ARE ;'' and the total structural design depict<s the
composite of ''that which generates and that which
is generated'' the four-fold representation of polar-
ity-in-action in the life-expression of the idea,
''Humanity.''
Draw a vertical line and concentrate on it for
a moment as the essential symbol of the generative
action of polarity. It is the action of begetting, the
composite function of parentage, the form-building
process hy which the male parent and the female
parent fuse their energies and substances as a con-
tribution to the incarnating Ego; i.e. the specializa-
tions of ''male and female'' composite the dynamic
expression of polarity.
Now draw a horizontal line of approximately the
same length as the vertical; this line is the objective
of the vertical, the ''negative pole'' of the parentage
line, that which was begotten by the parents, that
which was given form (incarnated) by the parents.
Since every "begotten" is bi-polar, we now recognize
that the extremes of this horizontal line represents
the masculine and feminine - either one or the
74 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
other - of the horoscope's subject; eaeh is generic
counterpart of the other (just as the father and
the mother are generic counterparts of each other).
The horizontal is, then the son/daughter of father/
mother.
To consider the generic quality of the twelve
zodiacal signs : meditate on a "generic spectrum"
of four basic qualities which we will designate as:
(1) maculine-male; (2) feminine-male; (3) mascu-
line-female; (4) feminine-female. This grouping com-
bines, effectively, the two aspects of sex with the two
aspects of generic vibratory quality-the ''two-fold
expression of two-fold polarity.''
Returning to the mandala with the cardinal signs,
·we recognize that each of these four signs represents
the "initiating" of one of the four factors in the
''generic spectrum;'' each one ''initiates'' a quad-
rant of the wheel and one of the elemental trines.
Ea.eh one is, then, the Being-ness aspect of its par-
ticular element, the other two aspects of each trine
represent the idealities of Love and Wisdom. The
''trining'' of the elements represents the essential
goals of our unfoldments, the recovery of our "lost
Edens'' through transmutations and ideal-ized re-
leasements of our generic potentials.
Hence, the two cardinal signs which refer to basic
male quality of polarity are seen to be Aries and
Capricorn. The other two depict basic female quality
of polarity: Cancer and Libra.
Create four mandalas representing the trines of
the elements. Since these trines are the symbols of
the "Being-ness, love and Wisdom" attributes, they
represent the ideality of the four generic variations.
!".·
BASIC RELA'rIONSHIP STRUCTURE 75
The fire and air signs are masculine gender, the earth
and water are feminine gender.
Now, two more mandalas, each one a combination
of the six masculine signs and the six feminine signs,
respectively. The masculine mandala contains two
verticals, the feminine one contains two horizontals.
When we connect the points of the masculine man-
dala to the center by straight lines we get the arch-
symbol of alchemy-the sextile aspect-symbol : the
dynamic decrystallization of congested energies
through transmuted expressions. The horizontals of
the feminine mandala convey a ''static quality''-
''something upon which something else can rest;''
a clear picture of the establishment of ideal society on
the base of ideal parentage. On what other base does
Society (in its higher expressions) rest except on
the expressions of Love-Wisdom of those who parent
it, personally or impersonally? The sextile aspect-
symbol which is involved in the masculine mandala
portrays the dynamic potential of every male and
every female to regenerate his/her vibratory pat-
terns and to release his/her potentials, evolutionarily,
in higher octaves of consciousness.
Mars, ruler of Aries, the ''male begotten,'' :finds
his exaltation in Saturn's sign, Capricorn: the fUlfil.1.-
ment of the impregnative male principle in father-
hood. "Fatherhood" is the male version of "form.-
begetting." We cannot remain "Life-takers" for-
ever-we must become ''Life-givers'' if we are to
find fulfillment. Is not planetary exaltation simply
another way of saying ''vibratory (or generic)
maturity?''
Taurus, the Principle of ''steward-ship of Form,''
is the second, or love, aspect of the Earth-trine in-
76 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
itiated by Capricorn. "Bread.winning" has been (for
the most part) the principal way that the male has
expressed his Love-potential for ages. His responsibil-
ity, as father, was to earn and to work so that his
''beloved'' and his ''begotten'' could be materially
sustained. Since woman has moved into free exercise
of her positive qualities since the re-polarization
process went into effect with the last century and
a half fY1: so, we are now recognizing that the male
has higher octaves to fulfill as father; psyehology
has refuted the old "saw" that child-raising is prin-
cipally the mother's task; we now know, from our
recognition of the principles of parentage, that the
Love-Wisdom of the father is every bit as important
and as necessary for the fulfillment of parentage-
responsibility. Sagittarius, the third :fire-sign and
Wisdom-aspect of the maaculine-male trine, is the
twelfth house-eign of Capricorn: the Wisdom aspect
of the male is then seen to be the redemption th.rough
which the male exercises his spiritual potentials in
the experience-pattern of fatherhood. "Making mon-
ey'' is seen to be only one factor by which a male
expresses his love for his children; "making minds,
making heart.a, making spirit and understanding''
is seen to be the ideal of father as a faetor in his
children's experience.
v'enus, as ruler of Libra and the complement of
Ma.rs-Aries, is the ''feminine-begotten'' of father-
mother Saturn/Moon. Her fulfillment in motherhood
is shown by Cancer as her tenth house sign-as Cap-
ricorn is for Mars; but in the feminine patterns the
exaltations are carried out differently than the mas-
culine one. (Incidentally, in a woman's horoscope
• I
- I
I
BASIC RELATIONSHIP STRUCTURE 77
her Venus gives us the basic vibratory clue as to
how she tends to feel about herself as a wife. In a
male chart, Mars will designate how the man feels
about himself as a husband.)
Venus' sign, Libra, is exaltation point of the fa-
ther-symbol, Saturn, and Libra is Saturn's own tenth
house sign. The "maturity" of the father-vibration
is found in the refinement and delicacy of the Venus
vibration, plus the quality of balance that is implied
by the harmonizing vibration of the ''lovely'' planet.''
Father as male, must recognize the value of the cul-
tivated feminine vibration as an ''equilibration'' of
his own quality; when his own feminine potential is
utilized in his parentage experience he perceives with
understanding the feminine requirements of ''her
whom he has be-gotten;" to utilize only his masculine
qualities of feeling and perception would represent
too total a ''complementation'' with the feminine be-
gotten ; there would be a lack of balanced perception.
The Moon finds her vibratory maturity in Venus'
other sign, Taurus, her own eleventh house sign. The
pattern of "eleventh sign" conveys the quality of
Aquarius (the eleventh zodiacal sign) and the key-
words "individuality" and "liberation" represent
the exaltation of the mother-principle when she rec-
ognizes and appreciates the individuality of that
which she has begotten and liberates the begotten to
its unique ful£llment. "Mother" who congests on
nurture and protection of the begotten does not rec-
ognize its need for its own unfoldment, development
and exercise of its potentials. But, with appreciation
and perspective of the begotten's individuality, she
ful£11s her task of nature, guidance and protection
78 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
by loving liberation of the begotten to find its own
levels of ideality and fulfillment. As Saturn finds
his vibratory maturity through the refining influence
of Libra, so does Jupiter-as the ruler of Saturn's
''redemption-sign'' Sagittarius-find his maturity in
the sympathetic response quality of his exaltation-
sign, Cancer, the mother-sign. Here the male nature
expresses its potential for protective tenderness and
sympathy for-and toward-the begotten. The fa-
ther's inner wisdom is here amplified and rounded
out by the sensitive emotional awareness and respon-
siveness of the maternal potential and his essential
male-ness is complemented by his own need to express
the composite of his wisdom and fooling.
Venus finds her maturity in an octave that is
much higher than merely acting as a complement and
refl.ectress of the Mars-vibration of Aries. Her exalta-
tion is Pisces-the inspired Wisdom-aspect of the
water-trine which is initiated by the mother-prin-
ciple, the Moon, through the sign Cancer. Pisces is
the home of Neptune, the principle of ideality itself,
the "super-mother," the "all-embracing, all-protect-
ing, all-redeeming" octave of the maternal principle.
Pisces, the twelfth house sign of the zodiacal belt is
the residue of unfulfilled ideals that makes necessary
the new incarnation. It is the symbol of mankind's
redemption by the highest octave of his consciousness
and, since Venus' cardinal dignity is the house of
complementation and the sign of equilibrium, Libra,
we see that perfect fulfillment of human relationship
patterns and ideal expression of the generic qualities
of our vibratory nature is the redemption of the
world. When we perceive the perfect potential of the
BASIC RELATIONSHIP STRUCTURE 79
masculine and feminine elements in every human
being it means that we have purged our conscious-
ness of dark pictures of sin, crime, disease, fear, and
ugliness. Venus through her maturity in Pis<ies, is
the perfect realization of the perfect reflection of
father-mother God in every human being.
Evolutionary processes bring all human beings
into fraternity sooner or later, with persons function-
ing in all other patterns; the ''son'' becomes '' hus-
band and father"-fraternal with all other husbands
and fathers ; the kind of father he has now represents
his "picture of fatherhood:" in the past; the kind of
father he will re-incarnate through next time will
depend on how he fulfills his responsibility-pattern
in this life. In short, we, each of us, carry within our-
selves an ideal of each basic relationship-pattern;
everyone is his own and her own husband/wife, fa-
ther/mother, brother/sister and son/daughter. Our
experiences in our cycles of incarnations are for the
purpose of making real-realizing-these ideal pic-
tures by means of expressing our ideal quality of
generic powers ; the end in view is the realization of
the human ideal-the manifestation of the perfect
human idea.
Chapter VIII
THE HOROSCOPE ABSTRACTED
This approach to ''abstracting'' a horoscope is
presented in the hope that it will help students to
clarify and focus their understanding of the element.a
that comprise horoscope-structure and horoscope-
delineation. We know that a horoscope is a symbolic
picture of human consciousness as it expresses in the
triune dimension of incarnation; it is also a picture
of coSmic principles as they manifest through the
entity called Humanity. These principles are, com-
positely, the Life of the Universe-they manifest on
all worlds and on all plam.es.
Astrology depicts the ''Brotherhood of Mankind''
in a sense that all hor-0.scopical elements are common
to all human horoscopes; everyone has Sun, Moon,
eight planets, and so on. Every horoscope is con-
structed by the same calculation patterns, which are
essentially the sidereaJ and .zodiacal elementaJs trans-
lated into reference to the place and time of incarna-
tion. In other words, we are all made of the same
vibratory stuff; we differ only in our individuaJ par-
ticulars as variations of the great abstract horoscope,
the basic horoscopicaJ pattern.
The structure of this pattern is a circle activated
by two diameters-one vertical, the other horizontal;
these lines form, compositely, two pairs of two semi-
THE HOROSCOPE ABSTRACTED 81
circles each and four quadrants. The quadrants, in
turn, are activated by division of three equal parts ;
thus the ''Life'' of the circle is seen to be twelve-fold ;
these twelv·e houses of thirty degrees each are the
departments of experience by which, and in which
human evolution is generated. This structure design
is static; it does not change because it is the frame-
work in which- and through which-the vibratory
life of the horoscope takes place.
The vibratory essence of the great abstract horo-
scope is found by placement of the zodiacal symbols
outside the circle in such a way that zero of each sign
falls on one of the twelve cusps; zero of Aries coin-
cides with the cusps of the first house (the Ascendant),
zero of Taurus on the second cusp, zero of Gemini
on the third, and so on around the wheel. The se-
quence of signs is invariable--Leo always follows
Cancer, Capricorn always follows Sagittarius, etc.
The magnitude of scope shown by this pattern
is seen when we recognize the reason for placing the
zodiacal sign symbols outside the wheel; they are
cosmic- universal- the levels and realms that are
not ''just solar system'' but which pertain to realiza-
tions of evolving Life-expressions. They play on Hu-
manity from the Great Without; we are their agencies
or instruments for expression on this particular plan-
etary status. To place the zodiacal symbols inside the
wheel would imply that God-consciousness is not re-
lated to the Life Principles of the universe at large ;
the principles expressed would then represent some-
thing which pertained only to the human expression
of Life.
The expression, in human terms, of these zodiacal
82 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
signs is found in the placement of the planetary sym-
bols inside the wheel. The interior life of the human
consciousness is thus portrayed by the patterns of the
planets in relationship to each other and the rhythmic,
cyclic activation of those patterns. The belt of zo-
diacal signs is analogous to the etheric bodies which
form the matrix of our physical body; the house
structure of the wheel is analogous to the dense phys-
ical body itself; the planets within the wheel in com-
posite are analogous to the cellular and organic life
of the body as a specific Life expression. Then if
humanity (human entity) is a specific Life expression
it is an archetype; we, as individual kuman entities,
are expressions of ''variation of the archetype.'' Our
individual status as a variation of our archetype at
a given moment in our evolution is a specific variation
of the natal horoscope which archetypes this incar-
nation; our natal horoscope, in turn, is a momentary
expression of the abstract elements which comprise
the overall vibratory design-the Great Abstract
Horoseope-which is the Horoscope of Humanity. It
is made by a wheel with the houses numbered; the
signs placed appropriately, starting with zero of Aries
on the :first cusp; the symbols of the planets placed
in the houses and signs of their dignity.
The suggestion is made, here and now, to every
Astro-Phil-OSOpher who reads this material to keep
on hand a neat, well-done copy of the Great Abstract
Horoscope for daily meditation. A continually renewed
impression of the vibratory and evolutionary mean-
ings of each factor in this design provides a con-
tinual reminder of the spiritual. purposes of astro-
philosophical study. This meditation impresses the
THE HOROSCOPE ABSTRACTED 83
mind with: pattern and form; sequence; archetype;
unity-which-expresses-through-diversity; polarity;
and vibrational sexuality. It also makes a deep im-
pression on the heart consciousness because it pictures
the brotherhood and sisterhood of all men and all
women to each other. The meditation on this mandala
is a devotional exercise of great power because it
opens the consciousness of the Astra-Philosopher who
follows it and practises it with a "lifting" that has
great regenerating effect. The Great Abstract Horo-
scope makes no reference whatever to aspects--good,
bad, or indifferent. It has nothing whatever to say
about good or evil karma, lucky or unlucky days,
males and females, enemies, open or secret, and so on.
It is simply a symbolic vibrational portrait of Hu-
manity revealing its Ideal Self in symbols.
Evolution is depicted in the astrological wheel by
tracing a line from the cusp of the first house-the
Ascendant--counter-clockwise through the wheel and
back to the Ascendant. Because we utilize a flat sur-
face in horoscope design, this line appears as a circle
-returning apparently to the same point from which
it started. We must realize that if a life is evolving
the picturing must represent upward, onward, for-
ever; consequently we recognize that the flat surface
of the wheel is, itself, an abstraction of a three-dimen-
sional concept. The flat surface .
represented by an
astrological wheel is really a cross-section of a sphere
which has been sliced through the center; it repre-
sents space, not only north, south, east, and west from
the birthplace on the earth's surface, but above and
below the birthplace. This is the physical representa-
tion; the action of the wheel is depicted in abstract
84 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
symbol by the spiral; this spiral does not show on
the two-dimensional. surface of the wheel, but .Astro-
Philosophers know that the line starting at the .As-
cendant, travelling through the wheel and back to
the Ascendant, is really the journey through an evolu-
tionary cycle in which spiritual unfoldment is made;
when the circling line gets back to the .Ascendant
point it ha.s reached a higher level and starts the
next cycle from that point. The starting point of
each cycle would have to be depicted above the sur-
face of the paper on which the wheel is drawn in or-
der to present the picturing of the three-dimensional
concept of the cyclic rising into higher and higher
levels.
Since a flat, two-dimensional surface is our me-
dium of symbolic picturing, we do not create a three-
dimensional symbol; the three-dimensional symbol
is portrayed, abstractly, by the continual circling
through the two-dimensional wheel. A ''plain as-
trologer'' may be satisfied with thinking two-dimen-
sionally; an Astro-Philosopher interprets a horoscope
dynamically, in terms of life processes being repre-
sented by the horoscopical. symbol. This ''spiral.ling''
will be strongly impressed on your mind if you try
the following simple experiment: place the point of
your pencil on the point where the .Ascendant line
conjuncts the circumference of the wheel; let the
pencil point travel around the circumference of the
wheel in such a way that at the cusps of the fourth,
seventh and tenth houses it is raised a little, each
time, above the surface of the pa.per; when it gets
back to the .Ascendant point after circling the wheel,
the pencil-point will be, for example, about an inch
THE HOROSCOPE ABSTRACTED 85
above the paper; lift the paper so- that the surface
touches the pencil point. If it were pos.sible to hold
the paper steady, you could, a second time, circle the
whee·l in the same way and raise the wheel an inch
or so again. This is a three-dimensional representa-
tion of the wheel and it present<; to our minds the
evolutionary process which is abstractly depicted by
the twoc.dimensional wheel.
The spiralling around the wheel not only repre-
sents the travel of a human consciousness through the
chapters of experience on different levels but it also
represents the a1
bstract pattern of each planet's
travel from the sign of its dignity through the twelve
zodiacal signs; the dignity sign of each planet-in
relationship to the planet-is analogous to the As-
cendant in its relationship to the wheel; each is a
starting point for a cyclic journey in experience and
in consciousness. The Ascendant (starting point) of
the wheel is also analogous to the conjunction of the
two planets which, as is indicated by this aspect, are
starting a cycle of relationship patterns to each other.
So we see that the circle of the wheel is, itself, an
abstrac.tion of the orbital movement that takes place
within the wheel in the inter-relationships made by
the planets to each other and to the structure of the
wheel and to the zodiacal belt out.<:1ide.
The first step in abstracting your natal horoscope
is to create a wheel with thirty degrees of each sign
for each house, starting with Aries on the Ascendant.
(This is, of course, the sign placement of the Great
Abstract Horoscope). Then, without using the degree
number, place your Sun, Moon, and planets in the
right sequence, according to their placement in your
86 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
chart, in this wheel-all planets in Aries will be in the
first house, all planets in Virgo in the sixth house, all
planets in Aquarius in the eleventh house, ete. No
aspects between planets are, as yet, indicated. Study
this wheel in terms of how the planets are grouped
in quadrants and triplicities ; how they are related
to the lower and upper semi-circles and the eastern
and western semi-circles ; how they are related to the
signs of their dignity to determine how far they have
travelled in their own journey through the signs. For
example, the Moon in Libra is in its own fourth house
sign-its dignity, Caneer, is one, Leo is two, Virgo
is three, and Libra is four. It has, in this position, a
fourth house relationship to its own dignity. Venus
in Capricorn is in its own fourth house sign from
its dignity in Libra, and its own ninth house sign
from its dignity in Taurus. Mercury in Aries is in its
own eighth house sign from its dignity in Virgo, and
its own eleventh house sign from its dignity in Gem-
ini. Interpret these eyelie placements by key words
according to the house sign represented. List all of
your planets in this way--create order and pattern
in your synthesizing always.
The next step is to ereate another similar wheel;
but this one will include the numbers pert.a.ining to
the sign-degrees on the cusps and the degree and
minute placement of the planets according to your
chart. (In a horoscope with no intercepted signs,
just turn the chart so that the Aries cusp becomes
the Ascendant and you have the same picture; how-
ever, the sooond wheel permits .you to write in your
symbols and degrees so that they are easily readable).
A horosoope with intercepted signs simply has zero
I
I
I
I
I
THE HOROSCOPE .ABSTRACTED 87
of those signs on the appropriate cusp. 'rhe point is
that the sign placement of your abstract horoscope
must coincide - in pattern - to the Great .Abstract
Horoscope; every house must be covered by its ap-
propriate sign. The second wheel now represents:
Your horoscope divested of the complexities of
incarnation; it is your vibratory consciousness-re-
gardless of your physical sex and all the complica-
tions pertaining thereto. This abstraction of your
natal horoscope tells the story of your vibratory
perspective of the basic chapters of human experience
and every house is interpreted by the basic keywords
of the planet which rules it abstractly. Thus the
second and seventh houses of all abstract horoscopes
all"e ruled by Venus-the princip\l.e of equilibrium
and perfect exchange ; Mars as the ruler of .Aries, is
the ruler of all abstract horoscopes--the basic key-
word of interpretation is self-awareness, the initiat-
ing point of all experience cycles. .And so on "Vlrith
the others; Moon is the Mother, Saturn is the Father;
Mars is the native, Venus is his (or her) complement;
the Sun, as ruler of the fifth house through the sign
Leo, is will power and love power; Uranus, as ruler
of the eleventh through Aquarius, is impersonalized
love and the principle of decrystallization-analogous
to the sextile aspect relationship between planets;
Neptune, as ruler of the twelfth house, through Pis-
ces, is the principle of redemption through incarna-
tion; in the abstract horoscope its placement focalizes
where we must learn to make attunement to spiritual
powers and ideal pictures in order to release the
images of selfishness accummulated through the pre-
vious incarnation; Jupiter is the teacher, the religious
88 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
or philosophic consciousness, the principle of improve-
ment through unfolding understanding; Pluto is the
focalizing of the deep resources of the desire nature,
the sex urge and the essential source of all regenera-
tion to be made through construetive action by the
redireeting of the Mars vibration; Mercury as ruler
of the third house through Gemini is the essential
symbol of basie, or elementary fraternity-also the
conscious intellectual faeulties; as ruler of the sixth
it is fraternity extended into the level of fellow
workers; it represents, through rulership of Virgo,
your ability, or consciousness, to work and serve
either as labor or as an expression of releasement of
the fifth-house Leo vibration of creative love. The
eomposite of the parentage pattern is shown, of course,
by the relationship and positions of Moon-Saturn,
the rulers of the fourth and tenth houses in the
abstraet ehart-the two planets represent your es-
sential parentage consciousness.
In applying the :findings of the abstract chart
to your natal chart you perceive the occult process
of your consciousness being dipped into matter, and
its patterns translated into your requirements for
experience in incarnation. Your abstract chart shows
what you express in incarnation; your natal chart
shows how your consciousness interprets incarnation
and through which agencies of relationship and ex-
perience this consciousness is to be unfolded and
perfected.
"Planets Are People:" in cultivating your inner
perceptions of the people in your life, apply the
rulers of their natal charts to yours and see how they
appear in your incarnation; then relate those points
THE HOROSCOPE ABSTRACTED 89
to your abstract chart and perceive your inner con-
sciousnes of those people. Any person, male or female,
who is identified by your Saturn is a factor of your
father picture, in your consciousness; other planets
of theirs conjunct your Saturn show that they are,
to a degree, sub-variations of your father picture.
And so on, with the rulers and planets of other
people conjunct your various planets.
You will- or can-gain a remarkable elasticiza-
tion of your astrological consciousness by study of,
and meditation on, your abstract horoscope. It has
a wonderfully impersonalizing effect on your mind
and feelings, making you aware of vibrational pat-
terns which the complexities of the natal chart, alone,
obscure. You will, as a result of such study and
meditation, unfold another remarkable realization :
human life as an expression of esthetic principles of
pattern, design, rhythm, color, line-in short, an the
essential elements which are common to artistic rep-
resentations. You will perceive yourself to be, essen-
tially, a dynamic factor in the overall drama, dance,
and song of life.
Chapter IX
CONDENSING THE HOROSCOPE
It has been observed that most astrological stu-
dents, at one time or another, experience a distressing
confusion in their efforts to study and analyze indi-
. vidual factors of a chart and trying, at the same time,
to relate those factors to the sum total of the chart.
This material is offered in the hope that it will serve
to focus zodiacal sequences in their formations of cross
and trine so that chart-factors will be more clearly
perceived for their individual value as well as for
their relationship to the total. Two sheets of paper-
at least as large as standard typing paper will be
used for mandalas.
The first step for condensation will be to review
what has been said in these articles many times: there
is only one horoscope; one Sun, one Moon, one of each
of the planets, one Ascendant and one Midheaven,
one of each of the houses and signs, one square and
one opposition, Olfl,e conjunction, one sextile and one
trine, one radius and one diameter. All of which is so
because there is only one Center and one fu,lfillment
of the potentials of that Center.
The Center is, of course, the creative archetypal
idea humanity-of which each hum.an being is a
specialized expression, in<iarnating by law in the
triune dimension of time-space-polarity. Your
CONDENSING THE HOROSCOPE 91
individual identity in this dimension is twofold: your
unfulfillments and your relative fulfillments. The
purpose of reincarnating is to realize the perfected
identity through fulfillment of all potentials. You are
an individualized vehicle of the Cosmic Law of Cause
(positive polarity) and Effect (negative polarity)
because you possess the attributes of expressing your
potentials (setting up causes) and reacting to the
effects of causes. The perfected Identity is made
through the processes of causing and reacting in con-
sistence with Love-Wisdom. Your evolutionary modu-
lations are the ways in which you choose to express
(initiate cause) and to react (interpret the effect).
With a narrow side on top, divide one paper into
twelve equal sections--three across and four down.
The top line is designated ''Fire''; the upper left
section is designated '' 1-Card:inal''; the middle is
"2-Fixed"; and the right section is "3-Mutable."
The second ''across'' line is designated ''Earth'' ; the
third "Air"; and the fourth "Water." (This en-
tire diagram can be drawn neatly if a compass is used
for the circles.)
In the center of the upper-left ''square,'' place a
dot, then draw a straight horizontal to the left about
an inch long. End this line with a large black dot.
As your pencil-p<>int emanated that line from the
central dot, you were creating a motion-picture, sym-
bolically, of the chemicalization of polarity-forces.
This line, as you know, is the Ascendant of the horo-
scope-to-be; it symboEzes the appearance of the Sun
on the Eastern horizon- the "body of daytime"-
and it also symbolizes your chemicalized appearance
on this plane at birth-the ''dawn'' of your incarna-
92 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
tion. In this line are symbolically contained the sum-
total of your "generic elements"-your qualities
of, and capacities for, being a causer and a sympa-
thetic-vibrator to the effects of causes. In these terms
is found your vibratory identity as masculine and
feminine, respectively. In your physical body is seen
a chemical specialization which we call sex; as long
as adherence to biological karma is maintained, your
consciousness of this specialization is ignited by vi-
bratory contact with persons of the other sex. Your
vibratory karma is ignited by pe,rsons of either physi-
cal sex whose masculine-feminine "vibratory mix-
tures" represent compfomentation of consciousness
to you. Think about ~his.
This line, being a straight one, is the simplest way
of picturing your generic potentials distilled from all
of your previous incarnations and "brought into
focus" during the prenatal development preceding
this incarnation. We will now "unfold" the Ascend-
ant-line as a flower unfolds its petals and study the
significance of the one cross as the archetype of human
relationship-consciousness from which all of our
interpretation of experience is fundamentally derived.
From the central dot of this first drawing, draw
an upward vertical, a downward vertical, and the
other horizontal-to the left. We now have an arche-
typal-pure-pictuxe of the ''skeleton'' of the four
macrocosms of identity-the masculine-feminine of
the male and the feminine-masculine of the female.
Counter-clockwise, starting with the Ascendant, place
the symbols for Aries, Capricorn, Libra, and Cancer
-respectively-at these points. The twofold vertical
now composites the line of generation-the dynamic
CONDENSING THE HOROSCOPE 93
process by which substance for the new life is gen-
erated by the "collaboration" of the parents. Cancer,
ruled by the Moon, is mother; Capricorn, its comple-
ment, is father. Both are life-givers; one--the male--
impregnates; the other- the female-receives the im-
pregnation.
Now, from the mid-point of the Cancer-line, draw
three-quarters o.f a circle u,pward through the mid-
point of Libra to the mid-po,i:t1t of Capricorn then
downward to the mid-point of Aires. The three quad-
rants traversed by this line--compositing nine houses
-symbolize the nine months of the pre-natal period,
from conception to birth. The Libra-line symbolizes
the timing during this period when the physical sex
of the incarnation-to-be becomes objectified and the
potentials of the opposite sex are subjectified-to be
subsequently outpictured, during incarnation, by the
mate. The complement of th.is pattern will be seen
in drawing the "nine-houses line" from Capricorn
downward and upward to Libra- in other words
"from father to daughter" as the Cancer-Aries line
is "mother-to-son." If it were possible to draw these
two lines simultaneoru;ly the picture would be that
of turning the "parental vertical" through the pre-
natal period to the point of birth;· an "X-ray" of
coordinating the generic elements for the incaxna-
tion-to-be.
An individual incarnates through his/ her particu-
lar parents by the magnetic action of sympathetic
vibration of his/ her masculine-feminine combination
to their individual and collective ma.sculine-feminine
combination. The other-and very important-factor
of this magnetic action is the ''attraction of differ-
94 STUDIES IN .ASTROLOGY
enc.es"-the child's individuality oontrasting with
the individuality of each parent. All relationship
between people serves evolution and relationship
means vibratory exehange. If the ehild were a dup-
licate of "half of his father and half of his mothrr"
no exchange coo.Id be made-hence no vibratory at-
traction would be possible.
The "individuality" of the child-to-be is seen
in the one remaining quadrant of ·this drawing-the
three houses of Aries-to-Cancer. This is the involu-
tion-after birth-into the use of physical and etheric
vehicles; and no one oon do that hut the child himself.
He, no one else, uses his body, his mind, his :feelings,
emotions, abilities, and talents. The parents provide
body-substance at conception and they exercise their
own minds in love-service to the child after birth, but
the ehild's involution :for use of vehicles is, of neces-
sity, an individual ma.tter. (The complementation
of this is, of course, the quadrant from Libra to Cap-
ricorn.) What is "contained" in the composite chemi-
caJ. and etheric vehicle is, of course, that which is to
be expressed, redeemed, and fulfilled in the in-
carnation.
This drawing of pictures in symbols presents a
strange and remarkable fact: each human-being is
his own parentage, his own fraternity, and his own
complementation - hushandhood-wifehood. Other
people are related to us by our feeling-reaction to
them but all of our f-eeling-reactions emanate from the
same souree----our consciousness. Therefore, other
people are chemicalized expTessions-or outpicturings
of our own vibratory mixtures. Kn-OWing this, the
Great Ones have told us to "Love Ye One-Another."
CONDENSING THE HOROSCOPE 95
Now we have pictured the basis of human rela-
tionships: the masculine-feminine male who is a causer
of effects and reactor to effects ("giver" and " tak-
er") and she who is bi-polar female-causer and
reactor, giver and taker. All human relationships
are derivatives of this four-fold basis. Therefore, the
Cardinal Cross in our first diagram represents the
''four-in-one'' identity, the four ways by which
human-beings say "I AM." But identity is not suf-
ficient unto itself, it needs expression to perfect itself.
So, each one of these cardinal signs emanates from
it.self-just as a line is emanated from a dot, or a
plane from a line- two expressions of spiritual iden-
tity-love and wisdom. Love is the spiritual goal-
redemption- of desire; wisdom is the spiritual goal
-redemption-of ignorance. Desire-ignorance is the
twofold karmic compulsion to reincarnation; through
it we forge the evolutionary path from virginity to
ideality-realization. The cardinal signs are, abstractly,
the corner-stones of our ''house of life''- the rooms
of which are the twelve houses of the one horoscope.
There is, as was said before, only one c.ross as a
pattern, the inter0hange of positive and negative.
Now to correlate the fixed cross and the mutable
cros8 with the cardinal cross, create a twelve-housed
wheel in each of the two remaining sections of the
top line, which y001 have aliready designated a&
''fixed'' and ''mutable,'' respectively, of FIRE. On
''fixed'' place the symbol for Leo on the .Ascendant,
Taurus at tenth, Aquarius at seventh, and Scorpio
at fourth; ''mutable'' place the symbol Sagittarius
on the Ascendant, Virgo at tenth, Gemini at
seventh, and Pisces at fourth. Let your eyes travel
98 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
from Aries to Leo to Sagittarius. Y011 are impressing
your mind with the fact that the three signs of the
Fire-Trine initiate the first representations of the
cross of the great mandala. The pattern of elements
in each are parallel: Fire-Son, Earth-Father, Air-
Female complement and Water-Mother. (Reversing
these wheels makes Fire the male complement.) From
Aries through nine signs to Capricorn. is "exaltation"
-maturity-of the "I AM"; from being a "begot-
ten,'' the arch-symbol of exp!ression-Mars-fulfills
itself in "fatherhood"-becoming a life-giver. This
symbolizes the first three quadrants of the progressed
Moon after birth-the climax of physical, mental,
and emotional involution. (Spiritual involution is
attained during the 28th and 30th years-the comple-
tion of the first cycle of progressed Moon and tran-
siting Saturn.)
Since the generic sequence is from Fire to Earth
to Air to Water we can now complete our tabulatio;u
of the other ''emanations.'' The three wheels of the
Earth-line will have as .Ascendants, Capricorn..
Taurus, and Virgo respectively; the three wheels of
the Air-line will have Libra, .Aquarius, and Gemini
respectively; the three wheels of the Water-line will
have Cancer, Scorpio, and Pisces as ascendant,
respectively. Place the symbols for the other three
structure points appropriately in all the wheels-
the la.st of which, Pisces .Ascendant, will represent
the cross that focalizes the most feminine, receptive,
and reflective of all twelve. The line of gestation
in each wheel is (being two-fold): from female of
vertical to m:ale of horizontal (as Canceir to .Aries)
and from male of verticaJ. to female of horizontal (as
CONDENSING THE HOROSCOPE 97
Capricorn to Libra)- always traversing three
quadrants.
For practical application, since the planetary
ruler of a chart focalizes the vibration of the As<lend-
ant sign, it is suggested that these mandalas be studied
in reference to the generic chart; this is the variation
of the natal chart in which the chart is turned (un-
less the ruler of the Ascendant is in the Ascendant
sign) so that the cusp covered by the sign containing
the ruler appears as the Ascendant. If the person is
male and that sign is a male sign, that variation is
the male generic chart; the sign male and the person
female, reverse and read as female, etc. Apply the
''gestation line'' to the generic chart that coincides
with physical sex for parentage identification-co-
relate with natal chart. The two generic variations
"splice" the generic composite of the natal horoscope
and the generic elements can therefore be studied
separately.
Now the second paper for further condensation.
From the center of the page create a wheel of
about two inches in radius; place the zodiacal symbols
in regular sequence about an inch from the circum-
ference. Between this ring of sign-symbols and the
circumference, forming a second ring, place the sym-
bols from the Ascendant counter-clock-wise: Aries,
Leo, Sagittarius; Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces; Libra,
Aquarius, Gemini; Capricorn, Taurus, Virgo. Cardi-
nal signs, fixed signs, and mutable signs cover cardinal
houses, fixed houses, and mutable houses. This inner
ring of the signs shows us the " unfoldment" of the
elements in terms of their Love-Wisdom potentials-
the spiritual expressions of identity. This "spread"
98 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
shows us decanates in action. The Identity-congestion,
Desire-congestion, and Ignorance-congestion of the
cardinal, fixed, and mutable crosses, respectively,
find their redemptions through the Love-Wisdom
attributes that are inherent in each sign as an expres-
sion of the ''I AM'' principle.
Each house of the horoscope is a specialized en-
vironmental-experience-relationship fo0us for evolu-
tion ; the sign-sequence of the Great Mandala synchro-
nizes principle with activity; in other words, the philo-
sophical principles inherent in each of the basic twelve
''experience-departments'' are pictured by the essen-
tial meaning of the sign that is abstractly identified
with it. Variations of sign-placement on cusps of
houses are matters of individual evolution; but we
can perceive them with greater clarity if we recognize
that all variations are emanations-not ''differences''
-from an archetypal base.
The zodiacal belt around the outside of every
horoscope is a complete and unbroken sequence always.
The "spread" of each element into the trine-forma-
tion, enclosing the wheel, is the spiritual en.foldment
of each of the four generic bases throughout the
chart. The confJLSion felt by students is toward the
sequence of ''cardinal, fixed, mutable'' being syn-
chronized with ''Fire, Earth, Air, Water.'' Recognize
now, if you have neveii done so before, that the
seeming ''mixing up'' of cross with trine is a sym-
bolic picturing of a Cosmic Truth: Microcosm is
never separate fr-0m the Love-Wisdom of its Macro-
cosm---or "Humanity from Father-Mother God."
Think about this-quietly, deeply, and with fo-
cused concentration. It has been stated over and over
CONDENSING THE HOROSCOPE 99
by teachers through religion and philosophy for ages
of time ; let the realization emanate from your inner
knowing.
Since we, as ''Ascendants'' are microcosm of
Father-Mother God the Law of Correspondence (as
above, so below; as below, so above) applies to us
in this way: our own potentials for Love-Wislom are
in us eternally- regardless of our congestions, con-
fusions, and darknesses. These darknesses of con-
sciousness are evidences of '' un-love' ' and '' un-
wisdom'' having been expressed- but we ourselves
are the sources of their transmutations.
Try this condensation with many charts if you
have them available. List planets in each chart by
cross, then identify their trine-placement. Make
"sketch wheels" utilizing the "decanate-spread "-
starting from the Ascendant sign to establish the
picture in your mind that each sign is a conscious-
ness-poweJ.· that can express into higher and hi.gher
octaves. Your whole approach to chart-analysis and
synthesis will be simplified and clarified thereby..
The Rosicrucian Cosmo-Conception
B11 Mil HEINDEL
An inspiring book containing investigated facts
w~ich bridge the seemi1;ig gap between Religfon and
Science ; facts that thrill the mvdern intellect and
comfort the old-fashioned heart.
This~ the
textbook
r
ussd in the
I
Rosierucia-n I
Philosophy
Correspondence I
i
Courses
I
702 pagea, with Topical l
Index of 57 page11 and I
'
Alphabetical Index of !
:
\l5 pagea.
Paper Bound
G07 page11. Identical
with cloth, but has To-p..
foal Index only,
i
I
j
PAR7'IAL CONTEN'l'~
Visible and invisible world.I
Man, and method of evolution
Spirit, soul. and body
fhouirht, memory, souliuowtn
CoD.i!cious. 11ubcon11cioua. and
iJUperconsciouio mind
Science of death. the bene1l-
cence of Puriratory, life i•
Heaven
Preparations tor rebirth
The Law of Con1equence
The Relation of man to God
Genesi1 and evolution of our
aolar aystem; Chao• the
r;eed-irround of Cosmos
Birt..1' of the planeta : l?laD-
etAry Spirit.a
The moon an eighth 1
mhere
of retroicression
Separation of the eexea
Lucifer Spirits and the Fall
Sixteen path1 to destruction
Chriet and His millSion
The mystery of Gol~otha and
the cleansinir blood
Future development !ill•
Initiation
The method of acQUirinir ftnt.
hand lmowledp
Welrtert.t methods for We11t ..
e:r11 pj!l&'$tl&.
Price List on Request
THE ROSICRUOIA...~ FELLOWSHIP
Oceanside, California, U.S.A.
