{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1achess_nde.html","mytitle":"Achess NDE 893","mylang":"de"}
          	        Achess NDE 893  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Achess NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						378  Achess NDE  893  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

In the afternoon, while I was doing the varnishing in the factory, I stuck my head outside to breathe fresh air. While I stuck my head outside and still focused on varnishing, I felt like I had fallen asleep.  In the distance, I heard the sound like “Tung tung tung tung” as it was getting closer to me.


At that moment, I awoke but the sound did not stop.  It kept coming nearer.


My first thought was, "Ah! I heard this sound while asleep and it is still here."  When the sound came very near to me, I felt faint.  Then I woke up again laughing aloud, “Ha ha ha ha.” The people working outside asked me, “Why do you laugh?”  I replied, “Don’t you hear the sound?”  They called me crazy and said, “If you breathe the varnish thinner for a long time, you probably fainted. So please come out and breathe fresh air”. Then I went outside and smoked a cigarette without thinking anything about the incident.  Then I took the varnish thinner from the big tank and turned back to work.


Not long after I began again, I heard the sound again, “Tung tung tung tung.”  The sound was coming nearer to me at an incredibly fast speed.  I fainted.  I want to try to describe the moment I fainted but it is not easy to say it in words.  If I’m forced to describe it, I can say it is like that the temperature control in the car going from blue to red and cold to hot.  I felt like I was swept away into the hot red control and torn off. It was just not painful, it was incredibly painful.


Even in the state of unconsciousness, I could hear the sound “tung tung tung tung” and then I felt and became aware of something else.


It was like there was someone who had controlled me.  I had a feeling that I am not me …and that person laughed out loud (as ridiculing me).  That person also was swept away along with the sound “tung tung tung tung.” … And above that, there was another person swept away.  This process repeated over and over again.  At that moment, I knew this is life.  The life I had lived is a really long life.  I also felt that I had already died here.  The moment of fainting repeated over and over again.  Sometimes it was long; sometimes it was short. But during the long fainting, I felt that I hate to keep fainting.


I fainted.  There was a person who pulled me over and talked to me. I tried to remember what he said but I can’t.  I could not tell the story clearly.  This moment is really, really long to me.


At the end, it was someone or something (maybe it was someone). I felt that person kept doing something like pressing me and I felt that I was waiting for that pressing. At some moment, I felt that I was born again when I was pressed.


Then I found myself fainted, but from the viewpoint of the third person, like I was watching a game. I saw many people rubbing down my body. The image of my body is a little bit different but I still recognized myself. And then, I don’t know what happened but I was inside my body again.  I was awake, but was still groggy.  I remembered that I tried to wake up knowing that I had gone far away.  At that moment, my body lurched and fainted.  I could feel that I am going far away of myself – again.


I tried to focus my mind to wake up inside my body.  Then I was awake. I was awake but I was in the groggy state and I felt the pain continuing.


I was conscious again, but the memory of what just happened did not disappear. I lay down in the small room inside the factory.  The memory of leaving my body popped up and made me tired.  I thought that if I fell to sleep I would die, so I tried not to sleep.  I fell asleep and heard the sound “tung tung” again, so I tried to wake up for almost two hours.  Eventually, the company workers woke me up.  I woke up with the strong and clear mind.


According to them, they heard the sound of collision with the varnishing tank.  When they came to check, they found me unconscious. Since the door was too narrow, they had to pull me out. I swung my hand and said that I would not go out.  I woke up, ran around the factory, and fainted again.  They said this happened again, only that this time I gave someone a phone call.  They heard me saying, “I will try my best, I will do it diligently” and then I hung up the phone. After hearing what they said, I tried to remember and I did remember that I had run and given someone a phone call.  It was my girlfriend.


That is all my experience about the death. During 2~3 weeks after, I often felt that I was possessed by something.  I couldn’t get it out of my head and kept thinking about it.  When I thought, all my body was shivering and got goose bumps.


While I am writing this experience, I got goose bumps on all my body and even tears down my face.  I shiver as well.  I am sure that this experience is the death. Before this experience, I have no idea about the death.  I did not believe in ghosts or superstitions, rebirth or destiny. But now I am sure that there is a destiny.  I believe in so many things which I did not before.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    2003년9월경

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain     위와같음   공장에서 대형탱크 내부 신나로 닦고있었다At that time, the workers were working outside. When I woke up, I saw them rubbing down my body.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Disturbing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      According to others, I was moving and talking.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Tung tung tung tung

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Uncertain     Please read the above history ..It looked like shape of monster. I’m not sure that was shape of human ..Ah ..I remember that I asked something and I seemed to heard the answer ..But my memory is …….

The experience included:      Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     felt that it was universe … about distinctive locations ….I felt that I was in an old machine

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Feeling??? ….It was painful.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I couldn’t explain but ..I’m sure that I am aware of that.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I feel that now I become aware of many things but ..I’m not sure what I’m aware of …However I feel that I should live more diligently.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I don’t know how I returned to my body

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   영어모름

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist   영어모름

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   I tried to tell my friend but I didn't know how to express ..It is really difficult to explain that situation.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Actually there was nothing good. But I don’t like the feeling of getting goose bumps every single time I think about that accident. I am scared of it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    There were some people did not believe in me. I told them but they did not care or listen seriously. There was only one person who believed me. He is the one who has religion ..he said that he has heard similar story before.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      ..

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1achess_nde.html