{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1abrisham_nde.html","mytitle":"Abrisham NDE 7393","mylang":"de"}
          	        Abrisham NDE 7393  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Abrisham NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3865 Abrisham NDE 7393  					  				  			          			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was preparing for a literature exam at the end of June. It was Ramadan, which is an Islamic holy month.  I was fasting and after the adhan, which is an Islamic call to prayer, and a bit of studying, I went out to go to art school.  I found out that I didn’t have money with me to pay for taxi, so I returned home. When climbing the stairs, my shoelace went under my feet. I fell on my face on a broken stair’s edge. I hit so hard that I couldn’t control myself after that and so I fell again. I climbed the stairs with my bloody nose and my mom was shocked to see me in this state with blood on my face. While washing my face, I felt dizzy and lost consciousness. 

First, I heard a sharp sound.  Then, I was travelling through a tunnel with light passing over my head. The light was kindness and I was moving at an unimaginable speed through the tunnel. After a while, I stopped while in the tunnel.  A very gentle and kind voice told me to go back. I travelled back with the same speed.  

I opened my eyes and saw my family crying and screaming around me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1380

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Direct head injury.    Life threatening event, but not clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Tunnel

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I heard the voice and when entering back into my body

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I think the scale of time was not the same as is in this world.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My sixth sense has been strengthened

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I have less hearing in my left ear, the same ear with which I heard the sound.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was a deep hole of light going upwards, with a golden and white light that can only be seen in dreams.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The golden and white light that I saw does not exist here on earth and is not comparable.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     Answered in question twelve

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Feeling of lightness and an unexpected feeling, like when you are entering an unknown place and you have no idea what are you going to face.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Uncertain

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I returned by the command of the voice that told me to go back  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Muslim

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believe in God and his book more, and his word calms me down.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Slightly important to me

What is your religion now?       Muslim

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am trying not to do the sins that I used to do, but have not been completely successful.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     من حس میکردم این نور و احساس بسیار خوب وجود همان خدایی است که بوده هست و همیشه خواهد بود .

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     Yes     مطمئن شدم جایی دیگری زندگی ادامه میابد .

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Unknown

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     درک و دریافت حس عشق با همه وجودم اصلا قابل وصف نیست .

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life     Slight changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     To some extent, I feel it when something bad is going to happen, but I do not know the place and the type of the incident that is going to happen.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    First with my family and after 13 years with my colleague.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   After my father's heart surgery, I felt bad and my head hit the door in ICU.  But I didn’t see any tunnel this time, but I felt for a moment that I was floating and I was facing my body. But I am not sure this is a type of experience or not.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1abrisham_nde.html