{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1abi_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Abi Probable NDE 9650","mylang":"de"}
          	        Abi Probable NDE 9650  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Abi Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						5225 Abi Probable NDE 9650  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

  I closed my eyes as my essence left my body.  I heard a deafening noise that increased until it reached high frequencies. I was sucked through a tunnel before being deposited in a black void.  The only light was coming from me as I glowed with orange and red light.  

  I realized that this was not a place, but a state of consciousness within me.  This was a state that had always been there, but whose existence I never was aware of in my earthly body.  The feeling of peace and warmth sharpened my senses, making me feel more 'me' than ever before.  

  Over there, I acquired all the knowledge of the universe. There was no question or doubt that was not immediately answered in a clear and logical manner. I felt like I was safe, protected and loved. In that state, it was impossible to lie, deceive, envy, in short, all human feelings were ridiculously obsolete. Over there, it was such as it was, and that was how it should be; it was the real, the authentic, the fundamental, there was nothing more.  

  I was certain that I had been there before, that it was a very familiar place, and that this was my home.  I knew that I was definitely in my natural state and that I belonged there.  I was certain that life on earth was a play in which I embodied a character who played different roles: daughter, mother, sister, employee, wife, and etc. But it was just that.  It was A THEATER PLAY, in which the passions, interests and feelings only existed in that reality.  It did not exist hear; nor did it have value in the dimension in which I found myself now.  Over there, it was such as it was, and that's how it was.  

  I identified that warmth and well-being that I felt as love, but it was a very different love from that on earth.  It was more real, complete, and full of Happiness.    Suddenly, I remembered that my physical body was somewhere, lifeless, and I saw that I could return to it and I did.  

  When I opened my eyes, I was shocked by what I had just experienced. This experience has been with me ever since.  I know that death does not exist. I know that this physical plane is just a dream or a game, but not real.  The reality is where I was, that is my true home.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 September 5, 1979  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    Drug or medication overdose.       Life threatening event, but not clinical death     

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body  

  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   I was more 'me' than ever before, totally present.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole time.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     See without eyes, experience without senses.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Sharper  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

  Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes,     I remember the tunnel; it was very dark.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

  Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I emanated a warm light that was projected into the darkness.  

  Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm.     I was in another state of consciousness.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, love, security.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I knew everything; everything was clear and logical.  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

  Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life.   I remembered that my body was somewhere and decided to re-enter it.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    None   

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I don't believe in religion; I believe in spirituality.  

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Atheist     

  Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     Even though I was sure I knew it, I had forgotten it.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Conviction that this is so.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

  During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     This state was incredibly familiar to me, it was my natural state of being.  

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     All is one.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     I was all that existed.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Nothing is real on the physical plane.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain     It seemed like a play to me, with the sole purpose of entertainment.  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     A firm conviction. I am an eternal and indestructible being.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     Nothing has real importance on the physical plane.  

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     They are not real. They only exist in the game.  

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Incredibly real, warm, protective.  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life       

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I no longer consider that to argue, get angry or fight about anything is important.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There are sensations that cannot be defined in the language that I know.  

  How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  It was aAn unforgettable experience. Real.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        That feeling of belonging there.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Various reactions; many do not understand, nor do I have the appropriate language to describe it.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I continually remember it.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The truth  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Describe the love experienced.         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1abi_probable_nde.html