{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1abdul_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Abdul A NDE3690","mylang":"de"}
          	        Abdul A NDE3690  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Abdul A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1686 Abdul A NDE 3690  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was at the classroom making an art project. Suddenly, I had a pain behind my left shoulder and when I sat down, I felt the pain in every joint in my body. Every time I moved, I felt pain in my joints, but the most pain was at the back of my left shoulder. The teacher went to call the nurse. When she left the classroom, I fainted. This is when my NDE began.

When I opened my eyes, I saw myself standing on my knees and arms. I was in a place that had no beginning and no ending. It was a white place, white everywhere. I was very tired and couldn't stand up. When I looked in front of me, I saw three tall men standing next to each other. The two on the sides were the same height, but the one in the middle was taller. Their faces were blurry. I couldn't see them clearly. The middleman (the tallest one) pointed at me. I felt that everything was shaking and I felt like something was pulling me. Then I saw myself back in the classroom. The nurse was holding me.  He said that they had nearly lost me. I went to hospital, they gave me painkillers, and that was all. A few hours later, I felt good and there was no pain.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  between May and June 2007
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    I was making an art project and it just happened there was no circumstances  Other I felt pain in my left shoulder than the pain spread to every joint in my body then I died or fainted I don't know.  I was in class with four other students and the teacher. I was only doing my art work.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I lifted my head up and saw the man pointing at me and after that, in seconds, I was back in my body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     This was the only time I have ever fainted in my life. It was bright white and I never had a dream or a vision that was bright white like that.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I didn't hear anything and it was so quiet. I was so tired I couldn't even speak.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I opened my eyes and I was in a bright light with three men in black suits in front of me.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Three men wearing black suits. Two were the same height and the middle one was the tallest. Their faces were blurry.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was white and it was everywhere.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt tired, but warm and it felt nice. I was relaxed and all the pain was gone.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   none

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I started caring about my religion and doing everything I'm supposed to do.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   faith

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I started caring about my religion and doing everything I'm supposed to do.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   I was so tired I couldn't stand up and everything went fast.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Only one.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my sister and mum and dad a day after the experience and they told me that it was just hesitation. On September 9, 2008, more than a year after the experience, I was asking through the internet and telling them what happened.  People were telling me that I was chosen to do something. People were telling me those three men were angels or Jesus and many other stuff.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew it was real when I got pulled back and my body was shaking and everything around me was shaking too. Then I was pulled so fast and I woke up. The nurse told me that they have nearly lost me.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     As above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1abdul_a_nde.html