{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1aad_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Aad G NDE 865","mylang":"de"}
          	        Aad G NDE 865  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Aad G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						352 Aad G NDE  865  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was standing on a drive lane (the lane to drive a car on before coming to the garage) which was covered with white gravel. The drive was planted with high trees on both sides which hung over the drive and covered it from the sun. The central reservation of the drive lane consisted of low bushes. At around fifty meters, there was an opened gate. Behind the gate, the drive lane continued splitting into side lanes on the left and on the right. The path before the gate was dim, once behind the gate there was a fantastic light. The source of this light was not visible. In front of the gate, somewhat on the left from my point of view, there was my dog who recently died on September 10, 2002 due to a heart attack. This dog was a Belgian shepherd (Groenend'ler) called 'Farouche'.


It waggled and defied me by jumping back and forth. It was clear to me that my dog wanted me to come along, through the gate.  I felt a strong urge to go along with him. Yet I could not move my legs, I was nailed to the ground. Farouche attempted to get me going. Then I felt that the distance between him and increased slowly. Farouche also saw it, turned around and walked through the gate. Without looking backwards, he walked, as proud as a dog can be, to the light in the distance. What happened to me subsequently, I do not know.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    9/23/2002

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Surgery-related    Life threatening event, but not clinical death I was an'sthetized for an open heart surgery in order to replace a malfunctioning heart valve by a metallic valve. Possibly I was also connected to a heart lung machine.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was apathetic and fascinated by the calmness, peace and beauty I experienced. At the time of being reunited with my dog, I had no emotions.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     The trees hanging over the drive lane gave the effect of a tunnel.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     My dog who had died shortly before my operation.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes

The experience included:      A landscape or city

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I enjoyed the calmness, peace and beauty, but was apathetic for the rest.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   Ik geloofde in een 'iets' na de dood voor mensen

What is your religion now?      Liberal   Ik geloof in een 'iets' na de dood voor alle schepselen gezamenlijk, de mens is maar een deel van de evolutie

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I am much more emotional and cry quickly. My social environment and direct colleagues find that I have changed; I am more at ease and less rebellious.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Not the factually circumstances, but the feeling of calmness and beauty.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part: the feeling of calmness, peace and beauty. The worst part: the fact that I had to leave my dog.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    The reactions I encountered were variable. My wife believes me but my son doesn't, he thinks it's nonsense. However, I can make nobody realize what I really felt, it is too all-embracing.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I know for more than a thousand percent that I have never seen this sight before my surgery. Not even until last week. But on the Internet I read a story about the Rainbow bridge. Both the story and the depicted image of the gate corresponded fair amount with my own experience.

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain     

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1aad_g_nde.html