{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 5736","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v1_n7_aug_1884.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V1 N7 August 1884","mylang":"de"}
No. VII.] [AUGUST, 1884.
JOURNAL
OJ'THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTBNTS.
PABB
lleetingB of CouncU .. .. .. . . . . 1011
E!ecUons.Ju1y2SrdandAugust11th.1884 110
Donations to Special Fund .. . . .. . . 110
Some New Experiments in Thought-
Transference •. . . . . . . . . •. 111
PAOJ:
Further Experiments on the Alleged
Meet of Magnetism on the HumanBody 112
Specimens of the Classtftcatiun of Cases
for" Phantasms of the Living." IV. lU
Supplementary Library Catalogue .. . . ISl
To our Readers .. .. .. . • . . . . IS2
MEETINGS OF COUNCIL.
A Council Meeting was held on July the 23rd, Alexander Calder,
Esq., in the Chair, when Messrs. Walter H. Coffin, Edmund Gurney,
Edward R. Pease, and Frank Podmore were present.
The minutes of the previous meeting having been read, the Bishop
of Carlisle was elected a Vice-Presideat, and Mr. M. Miley, of Tlinity
College, Cambridge, an Associate.
Donations to the Research Fund were announced of £50 from the
President, and £5 from Mr. J. Herbert Stack, for which votes of thanks
were passed.
After other routine business, the Council agreed that the next
meeting should be held at Cambridge.
A Council Meeting was held at Hillside, Cambridge, on August
the 11th, the President in the chair, when Messrs. Edmund Gurney,
F. W. H. Myers, Edward R. Pease, and Frank Podmore were present.
The minutes of the previous meeting having been read, seven new
Members and six new AsSociates were elected, whose names and
addresses are given on another page.
Donations of £20 to the Research Fund from Mrs. H. Sidgwick,
and of £2 from Miss Balfour, were acknowledged with thanks.
The thanks of the Council were given to Professor Elliott Coues,
for a copy of his book, "Biogen: A Speculation on the Origin and
Nature of Life," presented to the Library.
The question of the furtherance of the work of the Society in
America was brought before the Council by a letter from Professor
Barrett. The Council were glad to hear that during his stay in America
he would be able to devote some time to furthering the cause of
Psychical Research, and left it to his discretion to decide in what mode,
whether by lectures or otherwise, t.his end might be best attained.
Digit
110 JO'IJII"IWl ojSociety JOT Psychical Research. [Aug., 1884.
ELECTIONS, JULY 23RD and AUGUST 11TH, 1884.
VICE-PRESIDENT.
THE RIGHT REv. THE BISHOP OF CARLISLE, Rose Castle, Carlisle.
MEMBERS.
BRETl', GEORGE, The College, Weston-super-Mare.
GARY, BARON RAYMOND DE, 17, Rue d'Anjou St. Honore, Paris.
LONSDALE, GLADYS, COUNTESS OF, 12, Bruton Street, London, W.
MAcCoLL, REv. CANON MALCOLM, M.A., 1, New Burlington Street,
London, W.
MILES, FRANK, Tite Street, Chelsea, London, S.W.
MONTBFIORE, F., 4, Great Stanhope Street, London, W.
WILD, CHARLES, Jesus College, Cambridge.
ASSOCIATES.
ABERCROMBIE, CAVENDISH, D., Scottish Club, 39, Dover Street,
London, W.
CRAWFORD, W. C., 1, Lockharton Gardens, Slateford, Midlothian, N.R
HILL, ARTHUR G., M.A., F.S.A., 47, Belsize Avenue, London, N.W.
LEIGH, W. AUSTEN, M.A., 2, Norfolk Crescent, Hyde Park, London, W.
MARINO, LA DUCHESSA DI, 46, Lowndes Street, London, S.W.
MILEY, M., B.A., Trinity College, Cambridge.
SWLTON, ALFRED JOHN, 40, Paradise Street, Birmingham.
N.B.-Members and Aaaociatea are requested to eend information of any ohange
of addreu to the Auiatant-Seoretary, 14, Dean's Yard, Westminster, S.W.· .
DONATIONS TO SPECIAL FUND.
Received since last month.
Professor H. Sidgwick (Second Donation)
Mrs. H. Sidgwick ...
Mr. J. Herbert Stack
The Countess of Haddington
Miss Balfour...
£ s. d.
60 0 0
20 0 0
600
220
200
Digitized by Google
Aug.,I884.] JO'U'I"TId Of Society fCYr Psychical Research. 111
SOME NEW EXPEIUMENTS IN THOUGHT-
TRANSFERENCE.
By REV. J. PAGE Hopps.
We are indebted to the Rev. Page Hopps, of Leicester, for the
following account of some experiments with entirely different subjects
from those hitherto examined :-
We were a company of about nine persons, serious, earnest-minded
from the first in trying our experiments. There were two subjects, both
grown-up daughters of our host, and both highly-cultivated, refined,
truth-loving women. In the course of the evening a great number of
experiments were tried-three, in particular, were very impressive at
t1!-e time. In the absence of one of the ladies, we agreed to will that
she should come in and playa few bars from Don Giovanni. These bars
were named, not rehearsed in any way, and most of us could not have
known them. On coming into the room, the subject stood close to the
door for about a minute, with two persona' hands on her shoulders;
then literally rushed to the piano and played the bars. I at once took
her aside and asked her how she came to do that. Her reply was that,
as soon as she came into the room, the notes seemed to come dancing
into her brain.
The other subject being out of the room, we agreed that she should
go to one of the company and say certain words. This was done, in
effect; for though the words used varied from those agreed upon, the
sense was the same; and the instant change from a very serious and
almost painfully grave manner to the joyous manner that fitlyaccom-
panied the words was very striking. In her absence, again, we hid a
tiny piece of paper and small pencil under a number of books and papers
already on the table, agreeing that she was to find these, and then write
a certain name. This was done, the rather prolonged fumbling about
the spot, for each article separately being specially noticeable; but the
name was soon written.
On another occasion the same subject, after a few interesting experi-
ments in finding or specifying articles, was taken in hand by two decided
sceptics, who both insisted that the persons who put their hands on the
shoulders of the subject guided her. In her absence we agreed upon a
certain flower, in one of several vases of flowers in the room, as an
-object to be pointed out. On coming into the room, the two sceptics
put their hands on the shoulders of the subject, who then went to an
entirely different part of the room and took from another vase a flower
of the same kind.
On another occasion we agreed that she should come in and put out
the light from a particular gas burner, and this was done. On the same
evening we agreed that she should come in and write a certain sentence.
Digitized by Google
112 Jo'lJl1"1W1- of Society for Psychical Research. [Aug., 18M.
This also was practically done, though the sentence varied considerably
from the one we agreed upon, but the same idea was expressed.
[Some of these experiments appear to be inconclusive, as contact
was used and action performed, but unconscious guidance seems fairly
excluded from the others when an idea was transferred. We have
made attempts to follow up this new avenue of inquiry, but regret to
state that owing to the disinclination of the subject or her parents no
further progress can be made at present.-ED.]
FURTHER EXPERIMENTS ON THE ALLEGED EFFECT OF
MAGNETISM ON THE HUMAN BODY.
By DAVID STEWART, Associate S.P.R.
Mr. D. Stewart, of Woodside, Wemyss Bay, writes to us as
follows:-
Jtdy 9th, 1884.
The following is a rollgh note of some hurried magnetic experiments,
tried on Tuesday evening last, with Miss McKenzie, aged 16.
1. StmSatiun. from magnet.-I first handed her a piece of iron 9in.
long (filed bright), leading her to believe it was magnetised. Said she
felt nothing. Changed the end. Felt nothing. Substituted bar
magnet same size. In a few seconds convulsive tremors in hand and
arm, and magnet dropped. This was with N. pole; reversed, same
effect, but said sensation was not so strong.
2. Luminous effect8.-Darkened room, and laid two powerful bar
magnets, 18in. long, on table. Nothing seen for long time. Mr. Fash
removed the magnets and moved them as noiselessly as possible across
the room. In doing so, the two magnets clinked together, when Miss
McK. said, "I see sparks."
The magnets were then struck together several times, each con-
cussion, according to the witness, producing a stream ofsparks, apparently
of great beauty. The same result, though not so marked, was obtained
when one magnet was struck by an iron body. No glmo was
observable.
Not having any unmagnetised pieces of steel for a blank experiment,
and no means of making the observer deaf, we cannot say to what
extent the sharp metallic sound may have suggested sparks to an
expectant imagination.
S. Miss McK. was told to shut her eyes and say when she felt any-
thing. After the lapse of about half a minute, one of the large
magnets was raised and approached noiselessly towards her forehead.
When about 6in. distant, she suddenly shook her head violently and
started back. This was repeated a second time with the same result,
but not oftener, the effect being so disagreeable.
The N. pole of one of the large magnets was then placed below one
Digitized by Google
Aug,l884.] Journal Of Society for Psychical Research. 113
foot, her boot being still on, when a strong tickling sensation was ex·
perienced. The S. pole was then applied to the other foot, when a
"lifting" sensation was felt, as if there was a repulsive force between
the foot and the magnet. The N. and S. ends were then guessed (from
the feeling caused) correctly four times in succeBBion, the fifth was wrong,
and Miss McK. said her feet felt so queer, she did not think she could
tell properly. Sa the experiments were stopped.
I forgot to mention that after the permanent magnets were tried
in the dark, an electro-magnet was brought in, and a current sent
through it. Nothing was seen till the magnet was struck or bumped
on the table, when MiBB McK. said she saw a light each time, but
that her eyes were getting sore and wearied. I broke contact and
again bumped the magnet when the SO/1M light was said to be seen. At
this point she said she could stand it no longer, and immediately went
into a mesmeric sleep, which lasted about five minutes. Whether this was
due to fatigue, or to the magnetism of the electro·magnet, I cannot say.
But the fact of her seeing the light when no current was passing
and even making one mistake as to polarity, shews the n6CeBBity for
repeating the experiment with a number of sham magnets, to see how
far imagination comes in; but that there is a magnetic effect seems
undeniable.
I can feel the strong permanent magnet myself when held for a
little about an inch from the forehead. The creepir.g sensation is most
disagreeable.
Since then, Mr. Fash has tried a few experiments on his wife
who is tolerably sensitive to all sorlis of mesmeric influences.
One foot placed on the N. of one magnet, and the other on the S. end
of a second, set both feet working up and down as if she had been on a.
treadmill. N. and S. tried separately produced the same "tickling,"
and "lifting" sensatioDB as with MiBB McK., but after a few trials they
got mixed.
A young gentleman named Jamieson seems to be the most sensitive
of all. He said he could detect a difference in the feel of the two ends ofa.
ha.zel stick, a quartz crystal put him asleep, and the mere proximity to
the electro-magnet made him feel unwell, so that we could not continue
the experiments with him.
We seem, therefore, to have four subjects here (including myself)
with a. magnetic seDBe more or leBB developed, and I eXpect to be able to
send you an account of further and more critical experiments before
very long.
[We hope Mr. Stewart will continue his interesting experiments so
as gradually to eliminate the misleading effects of" expectantattention ,I ;
we congratulate him on the present contribution, which we trust will
stimulate other ofour members and associates. -En.J
Digitized by Google
114 JO'UIrnal 01Society 1m- Psychical Re8earch. [Aug., 111M.
SPECIMENS OF THE CLASSIFICATION OF CASES FOR
"PHANTASMS OF THE LIVING."
IV.
SPECIAIJ8ED SENSORY HALLUCINATIONS.
In the present paper we must enter on the discussion of specialised
sensury kaUucinations of a veridical kind-intimations which no longer
consist of mere vague feelings but appeal to one or more of the ordinary
organs of sense.
And first as to auditory hallucinations. Between the soundlessinternal
formation of words, which was described in the Dowdeswell case, and the
cognition of some apparently quite external utterance, one or two inter-
mediate shades may perhaps be interpolated. "I am sure I hear Mrs.
F.'s alarm-bell ringing," said Mr. Eve (in a case quoted in Proceed-
ings I., p. 32), just awaking from sleep, at a moment when Mrs. F.,
alarmed by thieves, was on the point of ringing the bell to summon
Mr. Eve to her assistance. Here, again, the impression comes in the
borderland between sleep and waking. It is DO longer a merely diffused
impression: it connects itself with one of the senses specially; but it
is not as yet strong enough to repeat and enforce itself on the fully
awakened brain.
At this point, too, we may place the narrative ofMrs. C--w, already
given in Proceedings VI., where the phrase "I feel as if someone were
calling me" well illustrates the difficulty of referring thea.e quasi-audi.·
tory sensations to mind or ear alone. In this case the agent's distressed
excitement was of long duration, but Mrs. C--w became aware of
the distant trouble while she sat in church, a situation favourable by its
tranquillity and reCfUillement to t·he perception of these delicate
influences.
In the next case which we shall cite, the misfortune was a sudden
one, and the voice announcing it corresponded pretty closely, perhaps
precisely, to the event.
From the Rev. R. H. Killick, Great Smeaton Rectory, Northallerton.
January 23rd, 1884.
A good many years ago I was in Paris, and one Sunday afternoon I was
taking coffee in the courtyard of the hotel, when all at once I seemed to hear
a voice say, "Etta has fallen into the pond." The pond was an ornamental
piece of water in aur grounds, large enough for a boat, and ~eep, and sur-
rounded by a grass path and shrubbery, and was my horror for the children.
They were never allowed to go near it, unless with one of the family. At
once I seemed to /lee the whole thing, and I got 80 agitated that I could not
rest, and walked about till nearly midnight in Paris, to get fatigued and
.sleepy. The next day I felt just the same, and left for Brussels to get my
letters, and as all eeemed well I dismissed the subject. It was kept a
Digitized by Google
Aug., 1884.] Jowrnal ofSociety for P8yckical ReseaJrck. 115
profound secret, but it came out while I was at a dinner party. On my
return home I asked for the particulars, and was told that this little girl·feiT
into the pond one Sunday afternoon while I was abroad, and was rellCued by
the hair of her head, by the governess, and was carried into the house in a
very exhausted state i but received no injury.
I found that it happened on the very afternoon, and at the same hour,
4.30, that I had that impression in Paris. It was a remarkable circumstance,
and bey~nd my comprehension. R. H. KILLICK.
In this case, it will be observed, the announcement takes the form
of a monition, as if from some third person, anxious to inform the
father of his child's accident. From our point of view, however, this
apparent introduction of a third personality need not have any special
significance. It seems merely to be one way in which the impression
realises itself in consciousness, as one says to oneself when trying to
understand a perplexed message,-" This, then, is what must have hap-
pened." To hear an unrecognised voice saying, II Etta has fallen into the
pond," comes practically to the saIDe thing as if one heard Et!a's voice
saying, "I have fallen into the pond."
These internal voices are, of course, liable to be described by different
persons in somewhat different ways. They form a sudden and generally
a unique experience; nor is it always easy for the percipient himself to
describe the degree of externality which they seem to assume. When
we come to deal with phantasms of voices, apparently fully objectified,
but perceived by one person only of a company, we shall meet with
several cases which might perhaps have been placed kere as mere
aP1!'ozi1OOtions to auditory hallucination.
. In the case of visutJ,Z hallucinations, the transitions from. the purely
subjective mental vision to the apparently objective phantom are more
definite and easier to follow. We have elsewhere cited the experience
ofMr. Rawlinson, who saw, in his mind's eye, the face ofa dying fdend.
And there are one or two cases which seem to be most fitly placed
among mere approzi1OOtions to visual hallucination,-cases, namely,
where the phantasm is so 'fIU1fTl6'fIiary and so slightly defined that it can
hardly be said to be seen in any relation to the solid objects around it.
Persons who have never had experience of these evanescent quasi-per-
cepts may naturally find them difficult to describe, or even to imagine;
but the best illustration of our meaning will be found in some of the
accounts given in Mr. Galwn's "Inquiries into Human Faculty," by per-
sonS endowed with unusual powers of vivid visualisation.
We should expect that persons thus gifted (artists, for instance,)
would ,be rather more likely than other people to be the l5ubjects of
these incipient and still almost wholly 8'IIlJjectifJ6 forms of visual halluci-
nation. It is interesting, therefore, to note that the following case comes
from a lady whose artistic powers are well-known, and in whose expe-
Digitized by Google
116 Jou'l"nal of Society for Psychical Research. [Aug., 1884.
rience, as we understand, mere visualisation is often so vivid as to
become itself almost hallucinatory.
Miss Theresa Thornycroft sends us the following narrative :--
MiBB TheresaThornycroft, on October the 9th lR74, at two or three minutes
to 5 in the morning, woke with the strange feeling that her cousin was
Jead and that he was in the room. She then saw a vision of him; it was
quite momentary.
The boy died at that time, calling for MiBB Thornycroft, and saying that
he must see her. She knew that her cousin would not recover from the
illneBB he was suffering from, but his death was not expected so BOOn.
Moreton House, Melbury Road, Kensington, W.
Very few indeed (we may here remark), among our informants, have
ever experienced any other hallucination besides the one or more veridical
hallucinations which form the substance of their communication to us.
The truth-telling phantasm is often a unique experience in their lives; or
if they have experienced more phantasms than one, aU have been equally
veridical. From the evidential point of view this fact is, of course, of
immense importance. The veridical hallucinations would be far less
impressive if their percipients were habitually subject to delusive hallu-
cinations as well. But, nevertheless, we may once more remark, in pass-
ing, that the delusive and veridical hallucina~ions, though different in
their source, are similar in their opera~ion, and we should be disposed
aprimi to expect that a mind already prone to the one would, if the
occasion arose, be readily susceptible of the other.
The next case of visual objectification, where a scene seems to flash
before the percipient's eye, has already been briefly described elsewhere.
We have given exampIes of its two varieties; the first, where the scene
is a past one, and is transferred (as it would seem) from the agent's
memory to the percipient's sensation; the seetmd, where the scene is
actually passing at the time, and seems thus to be reflected directly
from the one mind to the other.
Curiously enough, since the report which appears in Part VI. of
Proceedings was written, we have received another narrative, much re-
sembling Mr. Rawlinson's, but supplying a delicate link between his
mind's.eye vision of a face and the }lashing of a scene which we are
about to discuss.
From Mr. John Hopkins, 23, King Street, Carmarthen.
May 2nd, 1884.
One evening in the early spring of last year (1883) as I was retiring to
bed-but whilst I was in full enjoyment of good health and active
senses-I .distinctly saw my mother and my younger sister crying. I was
here in Carmarthen, and they were away in Monmouthshire, 80 miles distant.
They distinctly appeared to me to be giving away to grief, and I was at once
positive that some domestic bereavement had taken place. I said to myself
Digitized by Coog
A.ug., 181H.] Jo'Urnal of Society for Psychical Research. 117
" I shall hear something uf this in the morning." When the morning Cd.me
the first thing which was handed to me was a letter from my father in
Monmouthshire. stating that they had, on the day of writing. had intelligence
that my nephew had just died. The little boy was the son of my elder
sister, living in North Devon. There was no doubt but that my mother
and younger sister had both given way to grief on the day of my strange
illusion, and it was in some mysterious manner communicated to my mind-
together with a certain presentiment that I was on the eve of intelligence of
a death in the family. I thought it most probable, though, that the
imaginative faculty added-in a. purely local manner-the idea of speedy
intelligence to the communication which the mind received in some strange
way from Monmouthshire.
It was the only occurrence of the sort I have ever experienced.
JOHN HOPKINS.
In answer to inquiries, Mr. Hopkins says ;-
I, at Carmarthen, had news on the following morning, as I thoroughly
expected to, of a death-that of a nephew.
Your first question is as to the reality of the scene in my mind. Speaking
as correctly as I can at this rlistance of time from the occurrence (about a
year ago), I don't think the affair did produce a picture on my mind more vivid
than might bave been summoned there by closing the eyes and putting some
strain upon the imagination. It certainly did not make the outward eye
fancy it saw something, as the Bishop of Carlisle has suggested may be the
case in some instances. But there was this peculiarity. The scene was
impre88ed upon my mind without closing of the eyes or any other induce-
ment to absent-mindedness and without the imagination from myself, KO far
as I can say, going out in that direction. It was also more firmly rivetted
upon my mind than any passing, or what one may term accidental impre88ion
~ould be. It was .fixed there. I could not get rid of it, and I felt certain it
meant something, which it certainly did.
Although the locale was familiar to me, I don't think there had been more
wanderings of memory to it than to other places I knew, and the state of
grief which my relatives were in may be said to have been the only
exceptional feature.
JOHN HOPKINS•
.May 15th, 1884.
Now, in this case we seem to catch the scene ill the very act of
shaping itself. It is more of a scene than of a message, for it does not
carry definite intelligence, and, as Mr. Hopkins himself says, the anti-
cipation of bad news is deduced from the picture rather than conveyed
along with it. Yet it has certainly nothing of clairvoyance about it;
there is no idea of displacement of the centre of consciousness, it is
simply that certain figures persist in appearing before the "inward
eye," much as "Dowdeswell, Pull Court," reiterated itself on the inward
ear.
The fa.ct that this scene is so manifestly (if one may so say) tele-
pathic in its origin, suggests the question as to the share in agency of
llS JOU?-nal of Society fm' Psychical Research. [Aug.,l~
the two women concerned. Are we to suppose that one only, say
the mother, was operative, and that the daughter's figure was a part of
the picture which the mother's mind transmitted 1 There would be
nothing incredible in this; since in other cases it seems clear that an
agent's mind can transmit a much more complex scene, containing many
living figures. But, on the other hand, experimental analogy seems to
show that it is quite possible for two agents to transmit impressions at
the same moment to the same mind. In an experiment (for instance)
of Professor Lodge's, recorded in Proceedings VI., it will be remembered
that two geometrical forms, on which two agents concentrated their
attention separately, were impressed simultaneously on the percipient's
mind. It is therefore conceivable that Mr. Hopkins' mind being in a
condition to receive a telepathic impact from his mother, may have
received a similar impact from his sister also.
However this may be, it is plain that the impression received was
not from the dying child, but from one or both ofthe mourners.
We shall meet with some other narratives where it will be important
to remember this possibility. The shock of hearing of the death of a.
beloved person constitutes in itself a crisis, and may often determine
the disengagement of the telepathic message from the over-stimulated
mind.
Passing on to cases where the scene does actually appea.r to be more
vivid than any voluntary visualisation could summon up, we may remind
the reader of Canon Wa.rburton's case in Proceedings VI., where the
percipient woke from a doze with the shock of what seemed a vivid
momentary glimpse of his brother falling downstairs. In that instance,
what seemed to be transferred was just such a flashing picture as
surges through the mind of a man in imminent peril. But there are
other cases where we shall find it less easy to maintain the distinction
between the mere impression of a scene on the percipient's mind, and
the actual transference of the percipient's centre of consciousness to
some distant place.
The following case will illustrate the way in which these two
hypotheses seem to shade into each other. It was communicated to U8
through Mrs. Swithinbank, of Anerley, who is well acquainted with
the writer.
Three years ago, when staying at Ems for my health, one morning after
having my bath I was resting on the sofa reading. A slight drowsiness came
over me and I distillctly saw the followillg :-
My husband, who was then in England, appeared to me riding down the
lane leading from my father's house. Suddenly the horse grew restive, then
plunged and kicked, and finally unseated his. rider, throwing him violentiy to
the ground. I jumped up hastily, thinking I had beel). asleep, andon my going
down to luncheon, I related to a lady 'who' was seated lIt'xt me what I had
A.ug., 1884.] Jou'1"nal Of SOciety for P8ychical Research. 119
seen and made the remark, "I hope all is well at home." My friend, seeing
I was anxiouB, laughed and told me not to be superstitious, and 80 I forgot
the incident, until two days afterwards I received a letter from home saying
my husband had been thrown from his horse and had dislocated his shoulder.
The time and place of the accident exactly agreed with my vision.
LAURA FLEMING.
October 17th, 1882.
Here there is more than a 'TTIl1Tnentary scene. There is a sequence of
incidents, leading up to a startling catastrophe. This looks (it may be
said) as though the percipient were 'watching the scene as it evolved
itself, not merely receiving an impact from its concluding moment.
We should, however, prefer to explain the experience in a different
way; as a transmitted impression, containing elements both of the
agent's merrwry and of his sensation.
Let us illustrate our meaning by the phenomena of ordinary dream.
A man is awakened by a pistol shot. He dreams a long series of
events, a quarrel, a duel, &c., culminating in the report which actually
awakes him. Now here his dream is a compound of memory and sensa-
tion; the sensation of noise evoking memories more or less congruous to
that particular noise, but, of course, confused and merely delusive. Now
suppose a telepathic shock to be propagated from a man's mind as he
falls from a horse. It seems to us easily conceivable that this shock
may carry with it a perception of the immediate train of events which
led up to the catastrophe. These events mayor may not be consciously
present to the agent's mind at the moment. They mayor may not be
accurately represented in the percipient's mind, or, as in the present case,
it may be hardly possible to prove whether the representation of them is
absolutely accurate or no. But they may well be imagined as forming
a part of the main telepathic impression, and the slight regression in
time which they involve, is precisely the kind of phenomenon for which
we must be on the watch as soon as we begin to deal with the manifes·
tations of mind, freed ever so little more than usual from corporeal
restraint.
And in the next case which we shall cite, we shall find what looks
like a slight touch ofpr~, just as in the last case there was a slight
touch of retrO'Vision.
From the Spectator, March 6th, 1869, p. 299.
Some years since my brother paid a visit, one Saturday evening, to a
family residing in one of the London suburbs. He was on the point of
returning to town, when the lady of the house (who had been unusually
vivacious during the evening) suddenly broke a blood-vessel in her head
A rupture had taken place once before in the same part, 80 a fatal termination
was momentarily expected. This impression was shared by my brother; but
he does not seem to have felt it acutely until the following Sunday evening,
when, under the gentle stimulus of an apparently tedious discourse, h~
Digitized by Coog
120 Jo'U'I"TUll oj Society JOT Psychical Reseo/rch. [Aug., 1~
thoughts reverted, for a short time, to the lady. Conversation, and a short
walk with a friend, however, directed his attention elsewhere; but after
reading at his lodgings and partaking of a meal, he was attacked, precisely
at 10 o'clock, by an extreme feeling of uneasiness. Again he thought of the
sick lady, and discUBBed the subject of her illness with a younger brother,
his anxiety now increasing. He retired to rest at 11 o'clock, and had scarcely
laid down, when, being still wide awake, he thought he saw the lady in bed,
with her servants and two men by her side. One of the men said: "She is
dead"; but the other, whom he took for a physician, gave her BOme
medicine. Hereupon the lady struggled, the vision vanished, and my
brother felt impressed with the notion that she was Perfectly well again. A
letter of inquiry ha,ting been sent the following Monday to his friends, my
brother was informed that, as the local doctor feared the worst, a City
physician WIloB telegraphed for at 11 p.m., and that until midnight, when
recovery took place, hope had been resigned. My brother had, therefore,
been affected at first by only a simultaneous impulse; but he had anticipated
the result of the crisis by three-quarters of an hour.
EDMUND J. MILLS, D.Se. (London).
Now here, in the first place, we have a feature which we have not
yet met with in this class of cases; namely, that the percipient's atten-
tion is strongly directed towards the agent, while there is nothing to
make us think that the agent's mind is turned towards the percipient at
all. Now it is true that in many of our cases we feel that we can dis-
pense with any such conscious direction of the agent's mind-that we
can appeal to the pre-existing rapport as a sufficient starting-point or
nidus for the telepathic communication. But there is a little more
difficulty in taking this view when an elaborate scene is transmitted.
One is tempted, at least, to suppose that Mr. Mill's energetic desire to
know how the lady was faring, had something to do with the momentary
vivification of ra1'Puri, and that this case, therefore, takes us to a
certain extent nearer to the cases of transference of the centre of the
percipient's consciousness, which we shall hereafter have to discuss.
Next, as regards the prevision of the lady's recovery, which Mr.
Mills felt, we may again seek our explanation (as we sought it in the
retrospective case) in something in the actual scene as realised by the
percipient. It would be plainly unphilosophical to assume that in these
cases of transference the scene thus psychically realised is necessarily
identical in all its details with the scene which a photographic camera
would catch and reproduce. The psychical scene has ez-hypothesi passed
through the mind of somebody, and must have been modified in that
transition. In some ways, no doubt, it must have lost: it must have
become vaguer and less accurate in detail, selective rather than complete.
But, on the other hand, the psychic scene may have 'I1/Q1"e in it than
the material scene, as well as less. Being in some way or other a reflee-
Digitized by Google
Aug., ]884.] JO'U'l"nal Of Society for Psychical Research. 121
tion of mind rather than of matter, it may contain elements which the
photographer's lens would not have detected. The percipient may per-
ceive not only what the agent perceives, but what the agent thinks
about those percepts. Here again, we shall perhaps get a glimpse into
the mechanism of the rare veridical scene-impression, by reflecting on
the prevalent character of the common illusory scene-impressions of
ordinary dreams. Now in dreams it is common to discern a scene
which in some unknown way explains itself: which involves a quasi-
intuitive knowledge of the events which have conducted the dream-
pieces to the places on the mental chessboard.
I am confronted (say) in a dream with a burglar, but I do not only
observe him as he stands before me; I somehow know how he got into
the house, and what he means to do next. Now the mind which I
am reading in my dream is simply a comer of my own mind;
I am evoking the scenes which my brain is prepared to picture, and
explaining them to myself by a confused selection from old memories,
present sensations, or forebodings of things to come. Now if I per-
ceive a scene through another person's mind, I am, in a sense, dreaming
his dream: the scene as it comes to me will bring with it his memories
and anticipations. Perhaps I shall not discern the way in which he has
arrived at them; the memories may come to me like an instinctive
knowledge that something 1uu happened, the anticipations like an
instinctive knowledge that something is aJxmt to happen.
In this way, perhaps, we may explain Mr. Mills' feeling ofassurance
that his friend had recovered. There may have been something in her
state or sensations at the moment--sub-conscious or conscious-which
implied the promise of recovery; and this incipient change of state
may have communicated itself to Mr. Mills as virtually already completed.
In the present narrative, indeed, the element of apparent fore-
knowledge is not very marked; and we should hardly have dwelt on it
but that it is important to note, when occasion oB'ers, any hint which
bridges over the distinction between things present and things soon to
come to pass. There are so many cases of apparent coalescence of
past, present, and future in supersensuous vision that we shall do well
to give all the elasticity possible to our conception of time-relation in
the psychic world.
Nor have we even yet byanymeans exhausted the questions connected
with the apparent flashing of a scene from one mind upon another.
It is in fact, among these cases, that we, for the first time,
meet with a difficulty to which, on the Thought transference theory, it
is very hard to find a plausible answer. That difficulty is that some-
times a transference of impression seems to exist between persons who
not only are not thinking of each other at the time, but who are absolute
Digitized by Google
122 Journal of Society for PsyChical Research. [Aug., 1884.
strangers to each other. In some ofthese cases it is hard to trace any pre-
existing channel ofconnection between the two minds. And in other cases
where there is some slight acquaintance, the rapport nevertheless seems
to dwindle down to a very vague and impersonal community of general
thought or interest. We will illustrate our meaning by two cases, in
one of which a slight rapport seems to have pre-existed, in the other,
none at all.
From Mr. Rowland Rowlands.
On another occasion, about 1868, when at the Pen-y-graig Collieries, I
had come from the works to my house, about dinner-time, 1 p.m., and
having been up all night had got into bed, when, just as I was dropping off
to sleep, and still between sleeping and waking, I saw the roof of the stall
belonging to a man Damed William Thomas moving, and the timbers which
supported it bending and breaking. I got up a.t once and ran off to the
colliery, just in time to meet William Thomas coming out of the works, the
roof of his stall having fallen in, just as I had seen it. My vision must have
taken place at the very moment of the accident.
William Thomas is now dead.
Now here the man Thomas may no doubt have thought of the
manager of the works, when he found himself in danger of death from
the colliery accident. But other experiences of Mr. Rowlands' look
rather as if it was the fact of a colliery ar.cident which affected him in
some unexplained way, than as if Thomas' mind was brought into any
personal contact with his mind. Or, at any rate, before we take for
granted that the impulse must have come from Thomas' mind, we are
bound to consider such cases as the following, where no pre-existing
rapport can even be suggested.
At a period during the formation of the Thames Tunnel, the date of which
I cannot recall without reference to the daily papers, my brother, Cyrus Read
Edmonds, was head-master of the Leicestershire Proprietary Grammar
School, at Leicester, and lived almost close to the school buildings.
On one occasion, when he was in bed, his wife was awoke (I think, at
somewhere about 5 or 6 if. in the morning) by a loud exclamation of terror
from my brother. She inquired the cause, and he in a state of horror, said
that he had seen the Thames Tunnel break through. That the workmen
rushed to the staircases or ladders, the means of exit, but one poor fellow
(leBS active than the others, who escaped) was overtaken by the rush of water
and ptlrished. My brother was in a state of tremor and distress, such as &
humane mau might be supposed to suffer as a witneBS of such a scene. He
begged his wife not to sleep, but to converse until it should be time to rise.
She urged that it was but a dream, and that the effect would pass off if he
could get a little sleep. " A dream," he said, •• it is no dream. I distinctly
sawall that I have described." My brother was a man of intensely sensi-
tive temperament, with an unusual shrinking from witneBSing pain, whether
• I don't aBBert this.
Digitized by Google
A.ug., 1884.] JournaJ, Of Society for Psychical Research. 123
indicted for good or evil results. He was a most accomplished scholar, a
great wit, and the finest conversationalist it has ever been my lot to meet,
and this statement is not a piece of brotherly partiality, but many well-known
men would endorse the statement, and others would-but some are fallen
asleep. At the same time I never considered him a superstitious man, but
he was a great thinker, and was not deterred from investigating'subjects
because they were unpopular.
On the day in the early morning of which this vision occurred, my
brother and his wife were engaged to a dinner party at the house of a
gentleman, whose name, I believe, was Whetstone. I was not acquainted
with him myself.
Before they left the drawing-room for the dining-room, his host said to my
brother, "Have you heard the sad news from London 1" He said, "No,
what is it 1" He replied, "The Thames Tunnel has broken in. All the
people in the works escaped, except one poor fellow who was overwhelmed."
My brother thought that his wife might have told their host, and that they
would rally him out of his depression. But on looking at her the look of
astonishment quite precluded this notion. He asked his host if he were
joking, at which he was much surprised, and asked how a joke could possibly
be elicited from such an occurrence.
My brother then said, "I saw it happen, just as you have related it,
so my wife will assure you, and I am yet su1fering from the exhaustion and
depression produced." He then told the company what I hlLl-e related above.
I heard the whole relation both from him and his wife, and many of our
friends were acquainted with the history.
My brother has been dead some years, and his wife also some years later.
I don't know that I can get any further confirmation in the case. My
brother's eldest daughter and her husband are living in Norfolk, but I doubt
if they could add anything of importance to the above relation.
Certainly, if it were a dream, it must be considered a most remarkable
one. I attempt no sort of solution of the occurrence, but submit the bare
facts for your consideration.
J. AUGUSTUS EDMONDS.
16, Waterloo Road South, Wolverhampton.
Now, in this case, which comes from a correspondent of scrupulous
exactitude, the impression produced by the visionary scene reaches its
maximum. It could hardly have been stronger had it been a 1Jrother
who was ·seen to perish. Yet the dying man was apparently an abso-
lute stranger to Mr. Edmonds. He was not recognised, nor does it
appear that his name was ever heard. It is, of course, conceivable that
he may have at some time worked for Mr. Edmonds; but this supposi-
tion is too improbable to be pressed. On a fairer view, the case of
which this reminds us is the cry of "Portland! Portland 1" uttered
by a stranger at about the time of the Duke's death. We there sug-
gested that the difi'used excitement evoked by the death might in some
way have communicated a stimulus-not consciously thither directed
'br anyone-to Mr. Marson's mind. If that were so, the case here is
Digitized by Google
124 Jowrnal of Society for P8ychical Research. [Aug", 1884.
greatly stronger. The Thames Tunnel, at the moment of the accident,
was probably the most vivid centre of excitement in England. A mind
conceived as lying blankly open to the invasion of minds at high
tension would be likely enough to receive 'an impression from this
quarter. Only, if we take this view, we must bear in mind that our
original standpoint is somewhat altered. The kind of communication
which we are now picturing to ourselves no longer resembles a whisper
along a tube, but a shout diffused in space and caught by a casual lis-
tener. It no longer recalls a thrill propagated along a wire, but rather
the circles of disturbance which widen from a stone's splash, and
which will agitate a straw which happens to be anywhere within their
radius. On the psychical side, the degrees of distance must of course be
represented by whatsoever in the psychical world corresponds to
nearness and distance in the physical~say potential rappurt or tele-
pathic consentaneity. Here, again, as in the case of the fusion of time-
relationships already hinted at, any descriptive phrases which we can
use must of necessity sound vague and unmeaning. It is, nevertheless,
important to miss no opportunity of adjusting our conceptions to a
state of things where space and time are no longer necessary forms of
thought. We may be obliged, in fact, to transcend the categories, but
let us do so in a way as little transcendental as may be. The
metaphysician transcends the categories, so to speak, aeronautically;
he soars above the apparently impassable barrier, and takes a bird's-
eye view of states of being unconditioned by space and time. We
must use the metaphysician's survey to inspire us with confidence, and
give us a notion as to our bearings, but our own attack on the mountain-
barrier must be made· in a different way. We must assail it as
mountaineers; step by step and in as many different places as possible;
armed with the ladders and clamps of evidence and argument, and
bringing our baggage of terre"a·terre conceptions and ordinary modes
of thought as far as possible along with us.
It is often useful, as we thread our way through these complicated
phenomena, with their manifold inter-relations and their obscure
analogies, to stop and ask ourselves what we can imagine that the next
step will be t what new aspect would the group of phenomena under
observation be likely to assume if one or other of the elements which
we have noted in it should develop itself beyond the restt
In the present case-the flashing of a scene on the mind-we
have felt ourselves nicely balanced between two alternatives. In
common life, if I am asked, "What do you see'" and reply "I
see an accident in a tunn"el," I mean either that I see a picture
of the accident painted on some definite surface, or that I am in
the midst of the accident, and see it actually going on round me.
But in Mr. Edmonds' case (for instance) the point precisely was that
Digitized by Google
Aug., 1884.] Jou1"nal Of Society fm' P8ychical Re8earch. 125
neither of these descriptions would have been accurate. The Thames
Tunnel scene was not perceived as depicted on any surface; nor did the
percipient imagine that he himself was in the midst of it. Let us now
consider each of these alternatives in turn. Let us see if there are cases
which take us onward in either of these two directions, either in the
direction of depiction of the scene on some definite surface, or in the
,direction of apparent transference of the percipient's own centre of con-
sciousness into the midst of the scene which he descries.
We shall find, in fact, abundance of cases to illustrate each branch
of this anticipation. And first, as to depiction of the scene on
some definite surface. Let us look first, as our custom is, for transi-
tional cases. Perhaps the most accurately intermediate case between
seeing a scene flashed in vacuo and seeing it depicted on some veritable
surface would be to see it through a u'intiow, localised to a certain ex-
tent by the window·frame, but yet not distinctly imprinted on any
superficies, but rather replacing the perspective view which would
otherwise have been visible. The kindness of M. Guizot (son of the
philosopher.statesman) has supplied us with a case where precisely this
condition seems to have been fulfilled. It will be interesting to cite the
passage, but the date of the occurrence-about A.D. 1700--excludes it
from a place among the narratives on wbich we shall rely for evidence.
and which we shall draw entirely from the present century.
Correspondance de Mme. la Duchesse d'Orieans.
(ed. G. Brunet, Paris, 1857, t. I., pp. 112, 113.)
Versailles, 2 mars, 1709.
On dit aUBBi que, parmi les sauvages du Canada, il y en a qui connaiBBent
I'avenir. II y a dix ans qu'un gentilhomme franQais, qui a eM page du marechal
d'Humieres, et qui a epouse une de mes dames d'atour, amena avec lui un
sauvage en France. Un joir qu'on etait a, table, Ie sauvage se mit apleurer
et a faire des grimaces. Longueil (ainsi s'appelait Ie gentilhomme) lui
demanda ce quil avait, et s'il souffrait. Le sauvage ne fit que pleurer plus
amerement. Longueil insistant vivement, Ie sauvage lui dit: "Ne me force
pas a. Ie dire, car c'est toi que cela concerne, et non pas moi." PreBBe plull'
que jamais, il finit par dire: "J'ai vu par la fenl!tre que ton frere etait
assaBsine en tel endroit du Canada" par telle personne qu'il lui nomma.
Longueilse mit arire, et lui dit: "Tu es devenu fou." Le sauvage repondit :
"Je ne suis point du tout fou ; mets par ecrit ce que je t'annonce, et tu
verras si je me trompe." Longueil ecrivit, et six mois apres, quand les
navires du Canada arriverent, il apprit que 1& mort de son frere etait arrives
au moment exact et a. l'endroit ou Ie sauvage l'avait vu en l'air par la fenl!tre.
C'est une histoire tres vraie.
This case which comes, after all, from what was certainly not an
"Age of Faith," is, in another way, remarkable. It is well·known
how large a part is played by clairvoyance, &c., in the shamanistic
religions of the Red Indian. The powers of the clairvoyant can rarely be
126 Journal of Society /0'1' Psychical Research. (Aug~. 1884.
tested with accuracy, since, for the most part, there are none but his
fellow-sav&ges to record them. But the vision, even of a savage, may be
proved veridical ifcivilised men are present to note the hour and compare
it with actual facts subsequently known; and the importation of Indians
into Europe-commoner in the early days of American discovery than
now-afforded opportunities of testing the red man's clairvoyant power--
opportunities of which this story, so far as we know, is the only outcome.
Our next case shall be a modem and first·hand instance of a similar
framing in a window of the psychical picture; consisting this time not
of a scene but of a single face.
February 9th, 1884.
I may remark first of all I am considered by my friends as possessing
iron nerves, am passionately fond of athletics, and certainly not given to
letting imagination or fear run off with my senses. But although I can with-
.out boasting say I hardly know what fear is, I am peculiarly susceptible to
mental impressions, that is, I can often tell what is passing in the minds of
.others (especially of my wife) when out walking with them, so much 80 that
I have almost frightened one or two people by offering to tell them the sub-
ject on which they were thinking, and in some cases exactly what they were
thinking about that subject. However, I dare say that is common enough,
but what I am particularlyjwriting you:on is to tellyou two facts, one of which
.occurred lot years ago, and the other seven years ago nearly. It seems a
long time ago to be produced, but to me the scenes are fresh as if they only
happened yesterday.
The first was this. I was going from the house I lived at to a shop kept
by my brother, and when about half-way it came on to rain very fast. I
.called in at the house of a lady friend and waited. some time, but it did not
.clear, and as I was afraid my brother would be leaving, I said I must go.
I rose to do so, and went into the hall and my friend rushed away upstairs
to get an 11mbrella, leaving me in the dark. In the higher part of the
·door was a glass window, and I all at once, in the darkneBB, saw a face look-
ing through that window. The face was very well known to me, though for
the instant I did not aBBociate it with the original, as she was 300 miles
.away. I instantly opened the door, found nobody there, and then searched
the ivy with which the porch and house are co.vered. Finding nothing, and
knowing it was impoBBible anyone could have got away, I then for the first
:time inquired of myself whose was the face I had seen. I at once knew the face
.was that of a married sister-in-law of my wife's. I told all our family of the
circumstance directly I got home, and judge of our dismay when the next
day we had a telegram to say she died at the very hour I saw her. .
T. W. GOODYEAR.
It is to be observed here that the face was seen in the darlcnus,
yet it was plainly not in any way luminous. This point seems to
.distinguish it from & thoroughly objectified phantom, which, ifseen in the
.dark, and not self-luminous, seemB generally to be seen as carrying a
.Jight. But here, as we conceive, the face:seen partook somewhat of the
Digitized by Google
.Aug., 1884.] JO'Urnal Of Society for P8ychical Research. 127
nature of the mere intra-cranial visualisations which the mind can
summon up as easily in darkness as in light. Nay, we can picture
faces to ourselves 'ITW/'e easily in darkness; and the dim light in this case
may have actually facilitated the vision. With this perception of a
face by inadequate light, we may compare the location of the vision in
an impossible place, ie., in a locality not normally seen by the percipient
at the moment. Here again, we take this confused location of the
apparition as an indication that it was seen as a phantasmagoric image
rather than as a three-dimensional form.
From Mr. H. Atkins, Royal Marine Office, 40, Spring Gardens, S.W.,
(First printed in Daily Tele.graph, and signed "Old Tar.")
In the year 1849 I was serving in H.M.S. Geyser, on the east coast
of Africa, and in company with H.M.S. Brilliant, anchored in Tamatave
Roads, Madagascar. The following facts I can vouch for. Some of our
officers were dining on board the Brilliant. A boat's crew were ordered to be
ready at six bells (11 p.m.) to fetch them on board. The lights were out on
.the lower deck and everything quiet. A messmate (T. Parker) and I, be-
longing to the boat, were sitting in the mess, abreast of the cook's galley,
and opposite each other, he with his arms on the table, and face resting on
them, and, as I thought, fast asleep, when all at once he jumped to his feet,
declaring that he saw his mother cross the deck in front of the
galley, and was very much excited. I pointed out to him that it was
quite impossible, as his face was towards the table, at the same time laughing
heartily at him for being so foolish. Our schoolmaster, Mr.·T. Salsbury, was
lying awake in his hammock, close by, and in the morning he made a note
of the circumstances, putting down time and date. On our arrival at the
Isle of France, BOme time after, Parker received a letter from home stating
that his mother died that very night. I am no believer in ghosts, but
think this a very remarkable coincidence.
From an interview with Mr. Atkins we gather that if Parker had
looked up he might have seen the place where he located the figure.
But he seemed suddenly to discern the figure, while his own head was
bent down towards the table. This was probably a kind of illusion
hyprtagogique, in a state between sleep and waking. Curious confirma-
tion is given to this view by the following CMe, where perplexity
as to the degree of objectification of the phantom pushes the percipient
almost into a contradiction in terms. The figure is seen as solid, yet it
does not obscure the objects behind.
After my marriage, I was sitting one evening in the Birmingham
Town Hall with my husband at a concert, when there came over me the
icy chill which usually accompanies these occurrences. Almost immediately
I saw with perfect distinctness, between myself and the orchestra, my
uncle, Mr. Ward, lying in bed with an appealing look on his face, like one
.dying. I had not heard anything of him for several months, and had no
reason to think he was ill The appearance was not transparent or filmy,
Digitized by Google
128 Journal of Society for PsychWal Research. [Aug., 1884.
but perfectly solid looking; and yet I could IfJfMIt01D IH tM Of'C!Iatra, nol
through but behind it. I did not try turning my eyes to see whether the
figure moved with them, but looked at it with a fascinated expression that
made my husband ask if I was ill. I asked him not to speak to me for a
minute or two; the vision gradually disappeared, and I told my husband,
after the concert was over, what I had seen. A letter came shortly after,
telling of my uncle's death. He died at exactly the time when I saw the
vision.
This is, evidentially, one of the best of our cases, coming from a lady
personally known to us, and of accurate habits of thought. And we
have here another illustration of the fact which we have often observed,
namely, that these cases grow more instead of less, noteworthy in pro·
portion as they are more accurately recorded. A less careful or a less
intelligent informant would probably have missed this point from want
of appreciation of its value, or from reluctance to write down what
might be ridiculed as self-contradictory. Yet it is precisely these in-
cidental touches of description-often self-contradictory or unintelligible
if treated simply as descriptive of normal phenomena of sensation-
which bring us nearest to a real understanding of the abnmmal condi-
tions under which such vision occurs. Here the figure (as we learn
from conversation with Mrs. T. the percipient herself), did not seem to
move with the eyeball: the want of adjustment between the phantom
and the surrounding world was of a more obscure and deeply-seated
kind.
This case may be said to carry our phantoms to the very verge of
complete objectification. The distinction between the manner in which
the phantom is seen, and the manner in which ordinary objects are seen,
though still felt to exist, has become almost incapable of being
described.
But, nevertheless, this case of Mrs. T.'s is not precisely the kind of
case which we are avowedly seeking; namely, the depiction of a
phantasmal scene or figure on some definite surface. Mrs. T.'s case is
analogous, in so far as the figure seen was not correlated by her with
the solid objects around it, but seemed to be represented to her in some
abnormal manner. But that abnormal mode of vision had, as we
shall hereafter see, as much analogy to claiTtJOYO-1I.C6 as it had to
depiction.
Let us go back on our steps a little, and lead up to depiction by a
somewhat different road. Instead of starting from a case (like Mr.
Goodyear's), where a face is seen in relief, but through a window-and
thus, as it were, has the picture's frame, but not its surface-let us
startfrom a case where aphantasmal representation moves along a definite
piece of wall, and thus (like a panorama) has a picture's SttII'face, but
not its stability.
Digitized by Google
Aug., 1884.] JO'UrnaJ, Of Society for Psychical, Ruearch. 129
From Mrs. Black, 6, Hazlitt Road, Weat Kensingaton Park, W.
(Who gave the name of her informant, but thinkB it would not be right to
allow it to be published.)
J/arc/t, 14th.
Mrs. V., whose hUBband was in the Artillery in India, told me the follow-
ing ~rred to herself. The story is well known in her family. She has
been dead BOme years, and it occurred when Bhe was comparatively a young
woman. I heard it from her 23 years ago last ChriBtmas, at Southampton.
One evening, Bitting in her drawing-room, she saw distinctly a military
funeral procession paaB at the further end of the room. The coffin borne on
a gun-carriage. The men with arms reversed. Directly it passed away, she
noted the circumstance, writing it down, and passed Bome months in greatest
anxiety. It was before the daYB of overland route. She heard of her hUB-
band's death, which had occurred that day, and allowing for the difference of
time, the funeral had taken place at the moment Bhe had seen the vision,
death and burial following each other within a few hours in India.
H. G. BLACK.
We interpret the Bomewhat vague phrase, "saw the procession pass
at the further end of the room," by the light afforded by the closest
parallel which we have, where almoBt the Bame words are used to
describe a phantasm plainly parwramie.
Miss Campbell was at church in Loudon with her mother. They remained
to the Sacrament, and while Btanding in the chancel with her back to the
church door, which was shut, Mrs. Campbell caught hold BUddenly of her
daughter'B arm, and in a terrified manner pointed to the wall opposite,
directly over the altar.
Miss Campbell looked, but could Bee nothing, and could not get her
mother to speak, and was much alarmed by the strange unearthly fear
expreased on her countenance, and with her eyea, wide open, fixed on the
wall.
She got her quietly back to her seat, and her mother then told her that
she had seen distinctly a funeral procession moving along the wall, but Bhe
could not tell who the people were.
Next day they heard that Miss Campbell's first cousin, a great friend of
theirs, brother to Lady A., had dropped dead suddenly in his room at
the exact hour when Mrs. Campbell saw the funeral paaB before her eyes.
He had no previoUB illneas, but was a very Btrong man.
A. BOLDERo.
We have placed these two caseB close together for another reason
also. They both of them suggest the question,-Why was a /uMI'al
seen1 Was it merely symbolical of death1 or was it a premonitory repre-
sentation of a scene about to take place 1 or was it a transcript of a
scene passing at the moment1 In the last two cases it would seem to
fall outside the scope of the present work.
Digitized by Google
130 JO'tJI1"1U11, of SOciety ffY¥' PsyChical Ruearch. [Aug., 111M.
Now, in Mrs. V.'s case, it is alleged that the funeral phantasm
coincided with the funeral. If we felt sure that this was so, we should
defer the case till phantasms caused by the detuJ, are discussed in a later
book. But death and burial confessedly came close together; and the
story being somewhat renote is likely enough to have been simplified in
the direction of making the phantasmal scene precisely correspond in
time with its actual prototype. The case could not, of course, be pressed
as evidence on either side, and it is only admitted here from its
analogy with the well·attested case of Miss C.
Now, in Miss C.'s narrative the phantasmal funeral lmdoubtedly
corresponds. not with the real funeral, but with the death. It is the~
fore either premonitory-if all the incidents of the procession were
afterwards precisely reproduced-or it is merely symbolical. Now there
is no evidence as to the correctness of the details of the scene;
and it therefore seems safer to consider it as merely symbolical, in just
the same way as the coffin in Colonel Jones' case (Proceedings VI.) was
symbolical of the agent's death, not a transcriptive representation of
the agent's actual state at the moment.
From these pa'lWl'amic cases we pass by a very short step to the
pictorial, of which we have already (Proceedings VI.) printed our
two best examples: Mr. Searle's case, where the appearance of his
wife's head was momentary, and Lady Chatterton's, where the phan.
tasmal ficture was of longer duration, and even resisted a move·
ment 0 the curtain. on which it appeared. This class of CasllS,-
whose existence we did not ourselves suspect until we received
the evidence which established it,-is one which we specially desire
to see reinforced. !fsuch a picture were to last for several seconds,
and to be carefully noted in all its detail, it is impossible to say
what instruction might not be gained. And here, too, we have the ad·
ditional interest of not feeling quite certain whether such a phantasmal
picture could or could not be perceptible to several persons· at once.
We have placed these pictures among the phantasms which are by their
very nature indiWlual, but this is rather because all our cases so far
have been seen by one person only, than because there is a olear logical
necessity (as there is in the case of the mind's-eye vision) for their limi·
tation to one percipient. There is indeed some little evidence (but not
of a kind to come within the scope of the present ·work) that panQrainic
scenes, at any rate, may sometimes be. seen by many.witnesses at once.
We would earnestly request our readers to be on- thew.atch for any
fresh cases which may throw light on this problem.
In our next paper we shall return to the point where our inquiry
into the flashing of scenes underwent a kind of biflircation. We have
followed up the instances where the phantasmal scenes become ~ore and
more pictorial; we will next pursue. the instances where the scenes
become more and more real; where the percipient is increasingly under
the impression that he himself is, in some sense, in the midst of the
events or objects which he descries.
F. W. H. M~
Digitized by Google
Aug., UJ84.] Jo'U".""m of SOciety for Psychical Re86t1I1'Ch. 131
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
'l'ke follo'llJing additiO'M have been made lines la&t mooth.
[&] indicates that the book is for referenee only.
ABBOT (Ezra) A Catalogue of Works relating to the Nature, Origin,
and Destiny of the SOul...........................................NIIW York, 1871
BEARD (George M., A.M., M.D.) The Psychology of the Salem
Witchcraft Excitement of 1692 ...............................NIIW York, 1882
CoLLYER (Robert H., M.D.) Exalted States of the Nervous System,
' . London, 1873
" " (a ItICO'IUl copy)
CoUE (Profeaaor Elliott) Biogen: A Speculation on the Origin and
Nature of Life ................................................BOItM&, U.S.A. 1884*
EvANS (Rev. W. F.) The Mental Cure .............. .................lorulcm, N.D.
PAJIPHLETS, English, for Vol. VI.
"BBINGJlIIG IT TO BooK": Facta of Slate-Writing through Mr. W.
EgJinton. Edited by H. Cholmondeley.Pennell..................Lmdon, 1884
OLmrTINB BAlmLBB (oontainiug "The Lyttelton GhOlt Story")
&ovrlJri,dge, l882t
TlmoBALD (Morell, F.C.A.) Spiritualism at Home.....................Lomlon, 1884:S:
PLoTINUs (The Five Books of) From the Greek. By Thomas Taylor,
London, 1794
PSYCHIC NOTE (NOB. 1 to 10) ••.•......•.•.......•...•..•..••..•.•••...Calcutta, 1882
THEOSOPHY (Hints on Esoteric) (Nos. 1 and 2) IBBued under the
Authority of the Theosophical Society .....................Calcutta, 1882·3
AGRIPPA (Heinrich Cornelius) Magiache Werke, ins Deutsche iibersetzt.
I) vol. ................................................................StuttgMt, 1865-6
BISCHOF (Jacob) Der Geisterseher. Eine Arabeake dramatisch
gedichtet ....................................2nd edit. Fiirth in Fro/Mm, 1806
[R] ECnlARTSHAUSBN (Hofrath von) Sammlung Visionen, Eracheinungen,
&C. .......................................................................•J[wlI:ich, 1792
HmmINGS (Justus Christian) Von den Traumen nnd Nachtwand-
lern ...................................................................... Weimar, 1784
HORST (Georg Conrad) Zauber-Bibliothek. 6 parts .............J/ainl, 1821-6
JUNG (Johann Heinrich) genannt Stilling. Seenen aus dem Geister-
relche .......................................................7th edit. StuttgMt, 1881
KERNER (Justinus) Blatter aus Prevorst. 12 vol..........KMl&rn/uJ and
Stuttgart, 1831-9
lUAl1SZ (Friedrich) Notbscbrei eines MagnetiBch- Vergifteten
StuttgMt, 1862
"
Nothgedrungene Fortsetzung Meines Notbschrei
StuttgMt, 1867
• PreaeDted by the Author. t Presented by Mr. H. A. Wusell.
~Preaented by the Author.
Digitized by Google
132 Jouf"lWl, of S0ci8g for PsychicaJ, Raearck. [A..,l884.
NOB (F.) Die Existenz der Geiater und ihre Einwirkung auf die
Sinnenwelt ............................................................ Weimar, 1841
JrirrrBBILUlI'GD aus dem magnetischen Scb1atleben der SomnambUle
Auguste K. in Dreaden. f'l'he preface ia signed by Johann Karl
Ba.hr and Rudolph Kohlachtitter as editors] ..................nr..u., 1843
PAlIPSLBTS, German, for VoL TIl.
BLIOO: Ill' Dm TBAulI mm GBIlITDW.LT ..... '" .....................LeijJzig, 1854
E-- (H. von) Geachiohten von Lebendig begrabenen Penonen
hclUforl, 1798
HOUT (Geora Conrad) Theurgie ..............................................Mlli"" l820
MBmB (Dr.) Gesohiohte der Hapeti8ch helhlehenden Auguate MUller
in Karlaruhe ................................................................8luUgarl, 11118
PuTT (Prof. Dr. Maximilian) Der jetzige Spiritualiamus .....•Leipzig, 1877
REICS DBa GEIBTBR {Das.).................................4th edit. Stuttgart, 1867
8ca11BERT (Dr. Gotthilf Heinrich) Ansichten von der Nachtseite
der Naturwiasenschaft ..............................8_ edit. DreIden, 1818
• " " " ,,3rd edit. Stuttgart, 1835
--Die Symbolik des Traumes........................3rd edit. Ltn.'pAg, 1840
SZ-Y (Franz Graf von) Ein Wort tiber Animalischen Magnetiamus
Leip.-ig, 1840
[B] TuZBL (Andreas) Medicina Diastatica, Herausgegeben von P. C.
LBip.-ig, 1753
BBRlI'HlWl (Dr.) De la Suggestion dansl'etat Hypnotique.........Pani, 1884
FABIUS (Everardus) Specimen de SomniuB .....................Af'IIII6rdam, 1836
[B] HISTOID DBS DIABLBS DE LoUDt1lI' ...............................AmIIerdam, 1716
PAlIPBLB'l'II, Latin, for Vol. I.
WlIDlWtJB (Erneatua HeDriOUl) Diaaerlatio Medica de Speotria ........T-. 1693
-----~ -----
TO OUR READERS.
The numerous additional and, in many cases weighty adhesions
to the S.P.R. are matters of interest and congratulation to all who
desire the welfare of the Society. At the same time we would urge
upon all our Members and Associates the importance of still further
strengthening the Society by enlisting the sympathy and the adhesion
of their friends. It will be borne in mind that in the case of Members
and Associates elected during the last three months of any year, a single
subscription covers the whole time up to the end of the following year.
Offers of assistance in any o~e or more of the special lines of work in
which the Society is engaged will be gladly considered, if addressed to
the Hon. Sec. or to the Secretaries of the respective Committees. Sug-
gestions and friendly criticism will at all times be welcome. If they
are addressed to the Editor of the Journal, please notify whether the
coJDIDunication is intended for publication in the Journal.
Digitized by Google
