{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mike_i_jr_nde.html","mytitle":"Mike I Jr. NDE 4919","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mike I Jr. NDE 4919  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mike I Jr. NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2518 Mike I Jr. NDE 4919  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in a near head on (45 degree angle) car collision, each of us traveling about 60 mph. From this near head on collision the car I was in crossed a highway median where another car hit me. A surgeon drove the second car that hit me after I went over the median, (from the same hospital I was eventually taken to). He drove his car intentionally (and sacrificially) into my path because he saw the initial crash and put his car in my path to keep it from going off the road into trees and a ditch. 

Then he got out of his car and came over to mine. When he saw my profuse bleeding and mangled leg, he successfully argued and convinced a policeman to allow him to intervene right on the scene. He reached within the wreckage to maneuver my shattered leg to help stop the bleeding. Later we were told his intervention saved my life because I lost five pints of blood, over half my total and that I would have unquestionably died at the scene had he not been on the spot and bravely intervened with his medical expertise. 

I realized I was bleeding to death because of broken bones and my heart was dis-functioning and I became very weak. I was trapped for thirty minutes within the wreck while the firefighters and others tried to free me with the Jaws of Life. I was in excruciating pain and was frightened beyond anything I had ever known. I feared that I was going to die and pleaded with those trying to help me to 'please get me out of here'. Just after telling the emergency medical service personnel that 'something is wrong with my heart' and several times saying that 'I am so tired', I finally gave in and just exhaled.  I let my head fall to the side so I could rest. I sensed I would die if I did that but was so exhausted I did so anyway.  

Immediately upon 'letting go' I instantly was at the edge of the earth's atmosphere and I was staring into space. I literally saw stars, and many beautiful and captivating galactic things. I have since seen the same or similar things when visiting the website of the Hubble Space telescope. Now I realize I saw novas, supernovas, quasars, black hole and other things. The first thing I felt was an absence of pain (pain that WAS unbelievably intense just seconds before).  I felt instant peace and stillness beyond words and anything I have previously known. I felt calm, assured, complete and absolutely, serenely wonderful. I felt LOVE...incredible perfect love, as if everything was just perfect, in order and so peaceful. I had a knowledge or oneness with everything it seemed. Everything was connected, a oneness I had never known.  Also colors were brighter and more distinct, vivid and enriched. Some were colors we don't have on earth or I've never seen before. While I was 'out there' I heard a fireman yell my name. He yelled 'Hey Mich'l, don't go to sleep!' 

Immediately, I came back to my body in the car and yelped with pain and again held my broken and bleeding leg. I remember telling them 'I left, I left', though I'm not sure they knew exactly what I meant. Shortly after that time, I again lost my strength and 'let go' of trying to hold on.

Again, I was immediately transported to the edge of earth's atmosphere. I again saw into outer space and saw a black hole or tunnel. I thought to myself 'Hey, is this the tunnel people see when they die'? (I had heard of such things). I looked at the black hole and thought, 'Shouldn't there be light in that tunnel?'  Because I was on an angle, it was not possible to look into the hole or tunnel. I thought that 'If only I was there (I eyed a space not far off the center of the hole), then I could see into that hole'. Well, as soon as I said that, I WAS THERE! 

Instantly, I understood that in space I could travel the speed of thought. I had never had that thought before. We can travel the speed of a thought. It was immediate travel, instant. As I was at this different place in space, I DID see partially into the black hole and saw swirling colors of light, kind of turquoise and yellowish and a blue type of shade, different from on Earth. I also knew somehow instinctively that I could not go near the tunnel or I would not come back. 

I was intrigued and wanted to go but also knew for some reason I should not or would not now. I experienced a connectedness to everything, a dimension like I've not ever known before. I cannot find the words to describe the place, feelings, and characteristics of this experience. My best word would be 'ah' or 'ha'. That sounds strange but the gasp of 'ah' and the stillness it represents is close to the best word or short description I could give this. Since then, I realized that Ha and Ah are in many spiritual things like Yahweh, Buddha, Allah, Messiah, and often in meditation chants there is an 'um' or 'ah' or 'ha' sounds.  

I experienced so much blood loss that they could not operate on me that night, but had to wait until they could replenish my levels to a safe or adequate level.  I had surgery the next day.  Surgeons reconstructed my leg by inserted a titanium metal rod.  After a long time in a wheelchair, I underwent extensive rehabilitation and I learned to walk again. 

One year later I met and hosted a celebration with the EMS employees that were there that night who helped save my life.  I was told by one of the officers that they 'saw me drift and fade'.  He frantically worked faster while everyone thought I would die. They also agreed, I did die or 'fade out' twice while in the wreck. 

After this experience, I feel love as never before, compassion, curiosity and obsession with Quantum Physics, astrophysics, spirituality, teleportation, divinity, healing, prophesy and many other celestial and divine matters. Not a day goes by that I don't think of what happened in the fall of 2005.I believe now that we are eternal beings. I have no fear of dying. I want to tell the world, to help others, connect with the divine and see Earth as a mere molecule among our vast universe. I also sense there is life on other planets throughout the universe. Actually, I feel it is arrogant and ignorant of us not to think of life elsewhere and of the afterlife. The many things that many of us stress about on Earth don't matter. They are insignificant in light of the reality of space and out-of-body life. 

I believe we are spirit beings that have an earthly body. I believe now that we are connected to an intelligent being I call God. We have an immeasurable power and possibilities within. I am a changed person from my NDE as I am more compassionate, confident, calm, caring, spiritual and obsessed with learning more about all of this. It is great to know that there is a group of NDE people. I want to learn and apply all I can in this life of mine here on Earth. There is no doubt anywhere within me that there is life after death. 

I have been more blessed by my 'tragedy' than anything I ever could imagine. Here is probably the greatest blessing and miracle of it all. While I was still in the hospital a month after the accident, I desperately needed to leave the hospital.  I needed to travel to a relative who was in a life-threatening crisis but I was told I could not go unless accompanied by a doctor or nurse.  I prayed to God for a nurse to become available and assist me in my travel. Well guess what? I found one or should I say God sent me one and we fell in love instantly, were married a couple years later and now my nurse Noelle is my wife and we have a blessed beautiful little boy named Alexander.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Oct 9, 2005
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) 'Broken bones, bleeding excessively, Stopped breathing, went limp, EMS workers brought me back while still in mangled car'  I was in a near head on (45 degree angle) car collision, each of us traveling about 60 mph.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I realized I could travel the speed of thought and when I first felt and knew and was a part of this perfect, complete LOVE.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I realized I could travel the speed of thought and when I first felt and knew and was a part of this perfect, complete LOVE.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There is no time, yet there is all time, if that makes sense. Initially I sensed no time but then realized that anytime is now and now is anytime.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     There seemed to be nothing that I could not see if I wanted to and had the time. I had a knowledge that surpassed collected information. I could see big and small. I saw colors never seen before. I could see far away. I mean light years away. I believe I could have seen anything anywhere but did not try that though I wish I had.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was not audible but more like inner hearing

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I saw it but did not go in. I think I would have loved it but would not have come back. This tunnel I think is real and astronomers call it a black hole.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Inside the black hole upon the right angle I saw colors unknown but close to teal, bluish and yellowish or golden, soft and vivid, swirling and non-descriptive forms. Also saw a brilliant yellow-gold-white light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     far away stars, galaxies, quasars, clusters, gases, black hole, novas, etc

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, love, joy, assurance, perfectness, oneness, connectedness, compassion, excitement, bewilderment, curiosity, tranquility

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Spirituality is real and alive and religion is man-made and ritualistic. Our tradition is to imitate man's religions and language in the best attempt to explain truth. We need to allow each other the space to experience reality of the spirit world without judging or killing each other in the name of religion. We are all from same source, which is perfect love.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Christian but study other religions and forms of spirituality

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Spirituality is real and alive and religion is man-made and ritualistic. Our tradition is to imitate man's religions and language in the best attempt to explain truth. We need to allow each other the space to experience reality of the spirit world without judging or killing each other in the name of religion. We are all from same source, which is perfect love.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I believe all knowledge now exists and we can access it through different realms I sense everything is connected and thus known by any and all if only we can access it. The purpose seems that we are preparing to be re-birthed elsewhere and that it is love, prayer, helping others and preparing our souls for higher consciousness.  Purity is a primary goal. Returning and staying connected to the giver and creator of life is my goal for the purpose of helping myself and others.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I married the nurse who took care of me while I was in the hospital. We now have a baby and all my relationships are rooted in love and peace. I have new love and care for others that is wonderful. I love life more but have no fear of death. I now love and care about people, when that wasn't the case before.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There are NO words in the English language to totally communicate the experience.  Much of what I saw, felt and experienced is ineffable.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have a spiritual kind of power within to heal, prophesy or give a word of knowledge to people, understand things I couldn't before, have an obsession with the spiritual or 'unseen' world and I want to help others through some God given gift.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Several parts are meaningful. God is real. Life after death is a fact.   We can access all power, knowledge, space, time, and people. We are barely aware of our own abilities and science has barely begun to merge with spirituality. God has a purpose for me though I am not yet sure exactly what and when that is to occur. Love is God and vice versa. Love is the most powerful energy existing. No fear or pain is reality 'out there'.  Any place can be every place and vice versa.  Any time can be all time and vice versa. One person is connected to all and all to one. With higher collective consciousness and awareness, we can have world peace, no hunger and stop self-destructive courses. Perfectness exists and can be now. Here and now is anywhere anytime and everywhere every-time (best words I can use).

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Immediately I shared with others. With great passion and vivid detail, I would go on at length to hundreds of people I have told. I thought about writing a book or making a movie out of all this. People are always moved, touched, inspired, become enthralled and some have changed their faith to one of belief in God and after life. One told me thanks, for they were afraid of dying until I shared my experience. No one has told me they don't believe me for my enthusiasm and humble gratitude must convince them. Perhaps within their spirit they know, for that is where they came from.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had heard a little about a tunnel of light but never really delved in to learn about it.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Because I left my body twice and saw the same things, I know it was and is real AND I have since seen photos that line up with exactly some of what I saw. Quantum Physics and other sciences are confirming the knowledge I thought and realize I now have.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The only thing is that I have talked about it so much that some of the freshness has dissipated.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I want to learn more and share NDE with others.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Yes, ask people what they are doing differently because of their NDE, what lifestyle changes they have made and what would they do to help others with their experience.  I compliment and congratulate you on a fine website, questionnaire and commitment to this field. Thank You, and God Bless You and Yours!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mike_i_jr_nde.html