{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ana_nde.html","mytitle":"Ana NDE 7596","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ana NDE 7596  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ana NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3895 Ana NDE 7596  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					There was internal bleeding. I know it was dangerous. "	"I got an ovarian cyst, and it turned out to be serious. During the preparations for the operation I asked the doctors if everything was going to be alright. They answered, 'Are you worried?' I thought, I’m afraid, but I’ll hope for the best. 

During the operation, I suddenly felt an unbelievable relief, lightness, and weightlessness. Prior to this I heard someone saying that there was a lot of blood. Then I stopped breathing, and the thought came to me that dying is not at all scary or painful like my fears since childhood. 

At this time, one of the doctors cried out that I wasn’t breathing and that I needed immediate intubation.  The word 'intubation' was not in my vocabulary before this. Then there was a lapse where I don’t remember anything, and then I remember a woman saying that the suture had to be done carefully since I was young and thin and the muscles of my abdomen needed room to stretch. Then they took me to a recovery room. 

The doctor who had operated came up to me and said that the surgery was successful, that I had really given them a scare, and that she was very surprised by what??? Then I remember what had happened, and a nurse later confirmed that I had stopped breathing.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  11 октября 2011

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   There was internal bleeding. I know it was dangerous.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I heard and saw the words of the medical personnel, which were later confirmed by the nurses when I awakened.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   There was more lightness, joy, an absence of being burdened by problems.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The moment right when my breathing stopped.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I took everything that was happening in a disconnected way, as if it didn’t matter, as if it were not me there on the threshold of life and death, but a movie with no connection to my fate.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     An absence of fear: disconnected-ness from what was happening.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Sound came not through the ears but rose up within me, but not in the 'me' that was lying on the operating table, in the 'me' that was observing this from above, from the side.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Relief, I realized that I had been afraid of death unnecessarily.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Do not know.   Верю, что есть энергия-дающая море возможностей, но не уверенна-что это следует ограничивать религиозными рамками.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Not important to me

What is your religion now?       Do not know   Мои убеждения не изменились.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I, as a theoretical person who supposed that there possibly existed somewhere, for example, an energetic connection among all living things, had never imagined such an experience, I had not read about anything like it. I had just lived.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I realized the value of life, of the smiles of children, of sunlight, of a warm breeze….I value the present.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     I realized that it doesn't make sense to fear death or life.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I saw everything that was going on and realized that this was death.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No     Осознала, что не стоит бояться смерти или жизни.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Uncertain     I had a feeling of confidence and was filled with an awareness of bright feelings.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life. I have always been spiritual from the time I was a small child, but I became much more so after this experience.  See my response to question #8.     Large changes in my life. I have always been spiritual from the time I was a small child, but I became much more so after this experience.  See my response to question #8.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I became more tolerant, nicer to people. If I can help them I try to do so.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  For example, events from my workplace or related to my ex-husband are dim, but memories of the events of my NDE and the period of time around it, the post-operation period, are clear in my consciousness.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I have come to understand that dying is not scary. That thought still makes my spine tingle.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told a lot of it, almost immediately after the operation, to my mother and boyfriend, then to friends, but everyone tried to avoid the topic, so there was nothing left to say to them. Sometimes it seemed like they took me for a girl who was kind of out-there. Some people close to me had similar stories to tell.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was my consciousness. I knew that everything was happening precisely at this moment that everything would be presented in the best way for me.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I experienced it. I feel that it all took place.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       At first I was ashamed that I had wanted to leave.  There were problems in my life with my credit, dissatisfaction, and the necessity of making an active businesswoman of myself.  Then I realized that my son would wake up and I wouldn't be there, that my mother would be crushed by the news. It’s not worth it in life to be sad or to make up problems. I learned to value life.  Now I want to have time to do something important with my life, to leave the world a better place.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I liked everything, especially how the program returns to the menu if it is not filled out.        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ana_nde.html