{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1963__clymer___natures_healing_agents.pdf","mytitle":"Natures Healing Agents","mylang":"de"}
NATURE'S
HEALING AGENTS
THE MEDICINES OF NATURE
(or THE NATURA SYSTEM)
,V
b
\J By
RS SWINBURNE CLYMER M.D.
DORRANCE and COMPANY
Philadelphia
Nature's
Healing Agents
Other books by R. Swinburne Clymer, M.D.
Diet, The Way to Health
Race Regeneration
Making Health Certain
Your Health and Sanity
S Copyright © 1905, 1926, 1960, 1963
by R. SWINBURNE CLYMER, M.D.
, ,-, /■
" All Rights Reserved
Library of Congress Catalog Card No. 62-21710
Manufactured in the United States of America
Author's Note
The dominant practice of medicine is known as the allopathic
system. What may be generally termed as the opposite of this school
is known as the homeopathic system. The early herbal system of
practice became the Thomsonian system, and out of this emerged, or
developed, the eclectic and later the physicomeddcal system. The
Natura system of practice combined the agents considered most
natural, as used by the Thomsonian, eclectic, and physiomedical
systems, eschewing practically all poisons. The term Natura was
preempted by patent No. 30,604, February 18, 1908 and used con
tinually since then. Numerous concerns and publishers have infringed,
and continue to infringe, on this right to the name for a system of
practice.
rv
?3- I?& elf
NATURE, THE GREAT PHYSICIAN
Nature, the great physician, if permitted and not interfered with,
will provide man's physical requirements. Sanitation will eliminate
all impurities, so frequently the cause of disease. Nature and sanita
tion, given the opportunity, will prevent disease, or where it is
present, help eliminate it.
The Natura Physician's Creed
The Natura physician is basically religious, spiritually inclined
as were all physicians in times past who loved and lived for their
profession. Their feelings are always with those who suffer, and
their idea is to bring as much relief to the ill as may be in their power.
The Natura physician sees this statement in Genesis 1 :29 as the
Divine law for man's well-being.
This statement as a Divine edict is now more pertinent than ever
in view of the late discoveries made by investigators, especially
biochemists, interested in : What is life? What will offer greater life?
What will sustain life? What will free man from illness brought
about by his own disobedience to natural law?
VI
The Statement of the Law
"And God said [the Law functioned], Behold, I
have given yon every herb bearing seed, which is upon
the face of all the earth, and every tree, in which is the
fruit of a tree yielding seed ; to you it shall be for meat.*
"And to every beast of the earth, and to every fowl
of the air, and to every thing that creepeth upon the
earth, wherein there is life, I have given green herb for
meat : and it was so.
' '
— Genesis 1 :29, 30.
i.e., food (Author's interpretation).
vil
PROLOGUE
Until very recently, vegetables, cereals, and fruits were simply
things to eat. In a way everyone, physician and layman, understood
that these substances satisfied the appetite and at the same time
supplied fuel to the body. Beyond this fact neither physician nor
layman had much knowledge or were greatly concerned.
All this has changed. Bio-chemistry, instituted by Schuessler of
Germany, discovered the fundamental fact that health and strength
do not depend so much on the specific substances we ingest as food
but on the vital organic and mineral contents of these substances.
When first cultivated the tomato was thought to be poisonous
even by medical men of standing and was considered a cause of
cancer and partaken of by few people. With its development into a
large, luscious fruit-vegetable, the old idea was thrown into discard
with many other erroneous popular opinions, and the tomato was
accepted both as a wholesome food and as a delicacy. What is the
real, though generally unknown, reason for its popularity? Nothing
less than its richness in organic and mineral elements, possessing as
it does an average of 82.50 potassium, 32.90 sodium, calcium, 29.40
phosphorus, besides other valuable elements, in each one thousand
parts.
Swiss chard, once not even considered either herb or vegetable
but a weed, is now almost as great a favorite as broccoli. Its contents
per one thousand parts are: 62.70 sodium, 44.92 potassium, 21.69
calcium, 19.39 phosphorus, besides other elements just as valuable,
though less in quantity.
Celery is possibly one of the most universally appreciated
vegetables. Not so long ago it was considered an herb, splendid as a
tea for the nervous. Celery, like the tomato and the apple, has
developed from a favorite medicine into a food. Its contents per
thousand parts are: 65.24 sodium, 48.60 potassium, 14.90 calcium,
14.49 phosphorus, and other elements, among which is chlorine,
17.80. Only one other vegetable is richer in this element. Tomatoes
contain 18.00 per 1,000 parts.
ix
PROLOGUE
Rhubarb is another vegetable that until recently was considered
a medicine of value in constipation. Gradually it was accepted as
good material for delicious pies, then as an appetizing sauce, and
finally, splendid for the making of wine. Its contents per thousand
parts are: 74.50 potassium, 12.55 calcium, 18.41 phosphorus, 6.80
chlorine, and other valued elements.
Lettuce, formerly good food for cattle and chickens, is now a
universal favorite and is preparable in many forms. Its contents per
thousand parts are 74.50 potassium, 26.56 calcium, 14.63 silicon,
13.82 chlorine, and other valued elements.
Beets once were cattle food, but due to their appearance and
appeal to the appetite, gradually found their way to the table as
food for man also. Their contents per thousand parts are 38.70
potassium, 9.00 chlorine, 9.00 sodium, and other elements.
Onions,1 universally liked and as universally despised, are rich
in potassium and phosphorus. They are the ideal remedy in the onset
of colds and all bronchial trouble.
Snap beans (green) now on almost every table contain per
thousand parts : 40.5 calcium, 60.0 magnesium, 99.7 potassium,2 28.6
sodium, 60 manganese, 227 iron, 69 copper, 0.26 cobalt.
There is the lowly and often despised cabbage, now believed
by experimenters to contain an element which will neutralize fall-out.
It contains 0.38 phosphorus, 60.0 calcium, 60.0 magnesium, 99.7 of
protective potassium, 8.6 sodium, 73 boron, 60 manganese, 277 iron,
69 copper, and 0.26 cobalt.
Lettuce, an everyday vegetable, contains at its latest analysis,
71.0 calcium, 49.3 manganese, 53.7 potassium, 12.2 sodium, 37 boron,
196 manganese, 227 iron, 60 copper, 0.19 cobalt.
All vegetables are not only food, but rich in various minerals
and vitamins that are as medicine to the body.
Although herbs, roots, and barks have not as yet been fully
analyzed, they are all rich in these elements, and it is possible that
1. Fifty years ago practically every mother knew how to roast or
bake onions until soft, then squeeze out the juice and sweeten with honey to
give to the children for colds, coughs, even croup or pneumonia. It has lost
none of its virtues. The family physician was called only as a last resort.
2. It is now generally believed that lack of Potassium in the diet may
be a cause of cancer, and that this mineral is required in the successful treat
ment of cancer.
PROLOGUE xi
these help in eliminating weaknesses since their medical properties
remove congestions and eliminate disease.
These vegetables are all accepted as desirable. They are decidedly
rich in medicinal elements and their value depends on the contents
of the vitamin, mineral, and vital medicinal contents of these sub
stances.
That universal delicacy, the mushroom, was considered a pure
and simple fungus, also a poison. Now it is a great favorite with
almost all people. Its richest element is iodine and, therefore, it is
the ideal food for those suffering from under-development and goiter.
Seaweed, also known as Irish moss and by various other names,
has the same value as the mushroom. It is rich in germ-plasm and
iodine.
Next to be considered are a few of those plant products which
still are classified as herbs. White oak bark was a universal favorite
with the early Thomsonian and physiomedical physicians. Potash
70.00 parts per thousand of its mineral elements. Gout, rheumatism,
intermittent fevers, chronic diarrhoea, and other sympathetic ma
ladies continue to be treated with it.
Broom herb, the kidney remedy of the herbalists, contains 40.00
Potash in every 1,000 parts. Shave grass, the favorite kidney remedy
of the German herbalists, is rich in calcium and silicon.
Who is there who does not like fruit and fruit drinks? Until
lately, fruits helped to satisfy appetite, and fruit drinks were
considered as soothing in fevers. Fruits also made appetizing wines.
What are the real facts?
Wild cherry juice, whether fermented or unfermented, was
always considered a tonic. The reason for this is its richness in
iron oxide, potassium oxide and phosphoric acid.
Just as wild cherry was known as a tonic, so the juice of the
black currant became known as an antiseptic, purifier of the blood,
restorative of the nervous system, and an equally valuable remedy
in anemia, malnutrition, and general debility. Why? Because it is
rich in vitamins and positive alkali and contains, among other mineral
elements, 13.70 potassium.
Who is not familiar with blackberry pie, blackberry wine and
brandy, and the use of blackberry, especially dewberry-root tea for
looseness of the bowels, particularly for children during the summer
PROLOGUE
months? What are the facts? It contains per thousand parts: 19.68
potassium, 3.76 each of sodium and phosphorous, besides other
valuable elements.
Consider the lowly parsley once used only to give an added
taste to food. Now we know that it is rich in calcium, iron, thiamine,
riboflavin, niacin and ascorbic acid. It is recognized by many phy
sicians as valuable in the treatment of high blood pressure.
Renewed Interest in Once Discarded Common Remedies
It was not so long ago that the use of herbs as medicines was
thought to be an old wives' tale. There has been a decided change in
this concept and many physicians are replacing the chemical and
synthetic preparations with them.
Roughly speaking, there are several reasons for the present
rapidly increasing interest in herbal (organic) medicines: First may
be the fact that it is becoming more and more difficult for the ill to
obtain medical attention during the night, on Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays, even if living in towns or cities. Hence, a return to home
(common) remedies.
Second, the fact that serious, highly legitimate newspapers are
publishing lengthy articles on the revival of the interest of physicians
in such remedies. In its October 28, 1959 edition, the Wall Street
Journal published a lengthy article on the discovery that Snakeroot
has great value in the treatment of high blood pressure, a condition
that in one form or another is killing millions. Snakeroot is found
in many states in America. Strangely enough, many whiskey drinkers
placed the roots of this herb into their whiskey and drank it regularly.
I noticed this habit with many men in my early years, and I know
of none of them who died either from high blood pressure or heart
disease.
Another lengthy article on the use of blueberry leaf tea or
tincture in diabetes was published in the National Weekly, March
17, 1928.3 Undoubtedly, hundreds of thousands of diabetics had
recourse to this tea. Many continue to use it regularly. The physio-
3. Fully described in the chapter on household and domestic medicines
and agents prescribed by liberal and natura physicians.
PROLOGUE
medicalist and Naturist prescribed the tincture (the fluid extract or tea
made out of the leaves) in association with other natural remedies.
Vegetables are not merely vegetable nor are simply herbs or
fruits simply fruits. They are what they are and serve their actual
purpose, because of the organized mineral and vital (vitamin)
elements they contain, and the various combinations of these elements
as found in each separate specimen of plant life.
The Naturist or Natura physician studies each fruit and vege
table, familiarizes himself with its contents and then instructs the
combining of two or more of them in order that the need may be
supplied in each individual case. The Naturist is an investigator, an
analyst, and a logician in arriving at his conclusions.
CONTENTS
Chapter Page
1. The Natura Physician's Basis of Procedure 1
2. The Thomsonian or Physio-Medical Treatment of
Disease 5
3. Basic Principles of the Natura System 13
4. Emetics in the Elimination of Disease 21
5. Steam, or Vapor, and Pack Baths 29
6. The Internal Bath 36
7. The Natura System 42
8. The Natura Physician's Armamentarium 59
9. The Medicines of Our Forefathers 120
10. Other Natural Agents Long Used in Household or
Domestic Practice 143
11. The Natura Treatment of Disease 166
Addendum 203
Clinical I ndex 206
General I ndex 225
XV
1.
THE NATURA PHYSICIAN'S BASIS OF PROCEDURE
Disease (dis—ease, an un-ease) of whatever nature, is the result
of some form of abnormal condition in a certain part, or parts of the
body, brought about by a lack of certain elements necessary to proper
physical functioning; procurable from the foods we consume and
the liquids we drink, or as a result of congestion due to poor
elimination.
It may logically be questioned : do not indiscretions frequently
result in illness —an unnaturalness, unbalance, or lack of equilibrium ?
Assuredly sol However, the last phrase, lack of equilibrium is the
answer.
Indiscretions or exposures use up, burn up, or consume. Life's
activities are a process of consuming —burning up, combusting —
certain elements in the body. If these elements are not immediately
replaced, there will result an unbalance, which we term sickness, ill
ness or disease. The reestablishment of balance demands immediate
attention to supply the system with the elements lacking.
Under the natural plan or—if you will —the Divine Plan
governing man, he continues strong, physically well, and virile by
supplying his body with the elements being consumed, but only those
required to maintain the balance, the equilibrium. All of these ele
ments are obtainable from the organic (organized) kingdoms,
principally the vegetables (this term including the herbs, roots and
barks of certain trees). As indicated by Biblical inculcations or
commands what are known as "herbs" are actually food that will
supply the body with elements required to maintain a balance. Fruits,
nuts, cereals, and even eggs, milk, and cheese come under this
classification. The latter —milk, cheese, and eggs —are merely pre-
digested and highly organized (vitalized) vegetables, grasses, and
grains that have been consumed and converted —a form of prediges-
tion —by the animal into proper food for man.
Certain plant life classified as herbals should no longer be known
1
NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
as herbs, but as vegetables rich in food value as so long indicated by
the Biblical statement in Genesis, a truth ignored because it was
not generally understood.
Under natural law and the Divine order, non-organic (non
organized, i.e., synthetic) products of whatever nature, are abnormal
and foreign to the human being (man as a body, mind, and Soul),
and therefore detrimental. As man becomes conversant with natural
laws and free from ignorance, he will be able to discard synthetics
as food and medicine, because he will be conscious that the unnatural
and unbalanced cannot bring about order and equilibrium in the
highly organized economy of man.
Those who themselves follow this natural and sane law, as also
those (physicians and teachers) who will help the weak and ignorant
(the ill and discouraged), might well be classified as "vegetarians"
though this term is too limited. Why not then call them naturists, since
they follow the laws of Nature, harmonize their activities with them
and refuse to accept the concepts of those who would set aside God's
divine fiats by refusing to make use of the perfect, highly organized
and correctly balanced element so freely placed before man for his
use and welfare.
Under a new dispensation, wherein will function God's law,
"medicine," as such: fruits, nuts, cereals, legumes, and vegetables,
because of their contents will be so combined as to be both food and
medicine, and among the now well known and frequently used
vegetables will be included all the herbs. The Naturist will be both
dietitian and herbalist, restricted by neither.
Experience taught early physicians the value of many plants/
Later the schools of practice commenced sending all plants to the
chemical laboratory for experimentation, and when no active principle
was found, discarded them.
The Naturist selects all of his plant life by their therapeutic
properties and their organic mineral and vitamin content. These
elements are assimilated by the human organism, carried throughout
4. This is not literally true. With few exceptions all the agents of which
he made tinctures, fluid extracts, and powders had been used correctly and
successfully by the crudely and unfairly dubbed "old wives" of Europe and
the Indian women in America. All the physicians did was to refine them,
establish accurate doses, and by experience find new uses for them. It is high
time that we begin to give credit where credit is due.
THE NATURA PHYSICIAN'S BASIS OF PROCEDURE 3
the systems to the various cells, and by the law of selectivity chosen by
these cells to be used for growth, for rebuilding themselves, and in
maintaining or reestablishing health (equilibrium). The Natura
physician does not attempt, or claim, to cure. He merely supplies the
cells with the food (vegetables, herbs, cereals, legume, and fruits i.e.,
their vital mineral elements), which they need. By doing this he
attempts to eradicate disease (cell weakness or cell congestion) and
to establish a state of well-being. This has always been our plan of
operation and the system we personally advocate.
Physical and Mental Reconstruction
The Natura physician does not profess to cure disease. In fact,
no man, whatever his system, can do that. Nature alone is capable of
curing (eliminating) disease, and she only can do so when the proper
elements are supplied with which to rebuild the part of the body
which has become weakened by disorganization.
All that we or any other man, however great he may be, can do
is to seek the cause of the weakness, learn what the deficiencies are
that brought it about, then proceed to supply the essential substances.
Nature can then do the rebuilding —the reconstructing. There is no
such thing as a physician as the word is commonly understood. The
true physician is a teacher, one who includes the laws of life—a
regimen of correct living, and who, if need be, supplies the substances
required to eliminate the deficiencies of the ailing body.
The essential materials are not medicinal, but organic (organized)
substances which we know as food (material ingested) that can be
digested and assimilated by the hungry cells of the body. Drugs,
those unorganized (nonorganized) substances so constantly pre
scribed, cannot be digested nor assimilated. They may be absorbed by
the cells just as dyes are absorbed by cotton, woolen, or silk goods,
but assimilation is not possible. As a result hungry cells are not
supplied with the foods for which they are in crying need. Such
agents are of no actual value, except in rare instances when they
stimulate weakened (hungry and starved) cells to make greater effort
to reestablish their lost balance.
The mistake of the modernists has been that they mistook
absorption for assimilation. The human body is kept alive, normal,
NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
and active, only by the elements which the cells of the body can
assimilate and build into themselves. Inorganic substances cannot be
assimilated, although they may be absorbed.5 Consequently, they
do not become part of the cells, and give neither life nor strength to
the cells. They may help in the elimination of congestions and in the
reestablishment of equilibrium.
A Look into the Near Future
In the Natura, or newer science of medicine, when any
abnormality (now known as a disease) manifests itself in an in
dividual, the physical self will be examined carefully and scientifically
and the lack—cause of the disease —discovered. The physician will
then be able to know as a result of his diagnostic analysis, which of
the many known elements are missing, and how to supply them.
The constituents (organic, mineral, and vitamin) of every
vegetable including herbs, roots, and barks, and even the grasses are
now well known, and the physician will prescribe them, either singly
or in combination, in their natural state; and this will quickly and
naturally tend to supply the need, the lack of which is the cause of
the illness or lack of balance.
The coming enlightened practice, because of its naturalistic basis,
will gradually replace all forms of serums and toxins now used
in the field of therapeutics. Nature and Nature alone, will be the
basis of all curative agents. This may appear to be a sweeping state
ment, but indications are already apparent that the change is taking
place.6
5. Frequently, when this absorption does occur, the foreign substance
remains in the system and forms a wedge between cells. This may be the
beginning of tumors, cancers, and other abnormalities.
6. No criticism of any one prescribing serums, toxins, or synthetics is
here intended. However, investigation quickly makes apparent that more and
more people are accepting the Biblical concept that there shall be no blood
pollution in any manner.
2.
THE THOMSONIAN OR PHYSIO-MEDICAL
TREATMENT OF DISEASE
After long experience and a thorough investigation and exam
ination of all the principal systems of medical practice, Prof.
Curtis, a graduate of a regular school of Medicine, an able
lecturer and founder of the first Physio-Medical College, said :
"There is a true science and practice called the 'Physio-Medical,'
the character of which is indicated by its title. Its leaders are not
men, but the immutable laws of Nature.
"It is not the gift or invention of any man or company, or
succession of men. It is the eternal truth, science and art of God and
his inestimable and unequalled gift to all who will receive and apply
it properly.
"Different individuals in all ages and countries have discovered
and promulgated more or less of its principles, and means and modes
of practice, for which we should render to each one due honor and
gratitude. And since, among them all, I know of no one who has
given us so much that is true and good, connected with so little that is
false and bad, as Dr. Samuel Thomson, so I know of no one who is
entitled to higher honor or deeper and more lasting gratitude from all
the sons and daughters of affliction than this man, of Alstead, New
Hampshire, who presented to the world its chief medical discoveries
and inventions in the ninth year of the last century.
"Other men may more clearly develop these God-given principles,
remove from them errors and crudities that still cling to them, dis
cover and devise better ways and means of applying them; but, I
repeat, the doctrines themselves, the general deductions from them,
and the character of the processes of medication which constitute the
Physio-Medical science and practice, are the immutable truths and
art devised by the unchangeable God for the benefit of the unchange
NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
able constitution of man, and can never 'progress' nor be supplanted
while man shall inhabit this earth and disease continue to vex him.*
"This science and practice is the system of principles properly
called physiological, or those that govern the formation and preserva
tion of the organized body.
"(1) Its doctrines are that the human body is formed and
controlled, preserved and defended, and, when injured, restored by
the action of an invisible agent called the vital force ; that, when all
its parts are in such condition that this force can act freely and fully
through them, this body is said to be in health.
"(2) The inability of any organ to perform its healthy function
denotes disease. Hence, anything which in any way interferes with,
or interrupts, this full, free and universal action through the body
may be a cause of disease.
"(3) When, by ignorance, inadvertency, or unavoidable ex
posure, the conditions called disease have occurred, it teaches the duty
of aiding the vital forces in its exciting, irritating and inflammatory
efforts to remove the obstacles to healthy action, by means and
process that do not further damage
it,
but tend directly to restore
it
[to supply requirements] and to heal the breach,
if
any.
"(4)
It
makes use of those articles and those only, which, in
their nature, harmonize with the organic tissues and the vital forces;
and, in the measure and mode of application required in any given
case, directly aid that force in restoring its equilibrium, by judiciously
removing or helping
it
to remove all the obstacles to its free and
universal action.
"(5)
It
regards as poison anything and everything that
is
certainly known, in authorized medicinal doses or degrees, to have
directly destroyed human life, or is, in its nature, calculated to
deprive the organs of the power to respond to the action of the vital
force in the production of irritation and fever, znz., antimony, arsenic,
mercury, belladonna, cantharides, cicuta, digitalis and other agents
of like nature, and rejects these in toto from its remedial means.
*
As long as man remains
a
physical creature, in part or whole, and as
long as food
is
essential to his continuance, the Physio-Medical system of
treatment
is
the natural and logical one, due to the fact that in each prescribed
remedy there are elements required by the body of man just as there are in
the food he daily consumes
in
order to rebuild the various parts of his body.
THE THOMSONIAN TREATMENT OF DISEASE 7
"(6) It adopts as remedial means and measures only those
agents whose inherent tendency, like that of food, exercise, warmth,
electricity and the influence of pleasant company, harmonize with the
organic and conservative force of the system, and, like food and
water, may and should be given or applied in the quantities and
modes required, till the objects of their use are fully accomplished;
till perfect health is established.
"There are three ways to aid man in the accomplishment of his
object or wishes. The first is to remove the obstacles to his efforts ;
the second is to supply him with means best adapted to enable him to
effect his purpose, and the third is to inspire him to exert all his own
power and potencies in the right direction.
"In all cases of disease, there are, in the diseased parts, obstacles
to the free and universal action of the nerves and circulating vessels,
which the vital force is endeavoring to remove. The whole science of
physiology consists in the knowledge of the character and uses of
the organs and powers of the system ; that of pathology so far as it
is a science, in the knowledge of its conditions and wants ; and the
whole art of practice of medicine lies in the knowledge of the modes
and the means of supplying the wants. In some cases, Nature
requires but one, in others, two of the aids above indicated ; in others,
all. In some cases, all can be applied and supplied, by one means ; in
others, more are required.
"The Physio- Medical school commends the use of heat and
moisture, bland diffusive stimulants, innocent astringents, of the
character that may be taken in perfect health, in all the ways and to
the extent ever required in disease, without seriously deranging the
physiological state. Thousands of means and many processes are of
this character, and may be used almost indifferently ; but some of the
best have been selected, as those that may be relied upon, since with
them alone disease is treated and cured with as much directness and
certainty as philosophical and chemical experiments are performed.
"Indeed, it can be easily proved that the best philosophers and
chemists fail more frequently in the performance of their projected
experiments, than do the well instructed and faithful Physio-Medical
practitioners in the cure of disease.
"The conditions of their experiments being right, and the
operators intelligent and skillful, both classes of operations are
8 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
certain to produce the expected results. But sometimes the instrument
or agent or both are defective, and then the results in neither case can
succeed. The chemist can do nothing if his instruments are imperfect
or his agents impure. So the physician can not cure a far gone case of
tuberculosis with any medicine, nor any disease with inert substances.
"It is wonderful and a most astounding fact, that such a man as
Samuel Thomson should have prescribed a hundred different remedies
for the elimination of disease (many of which had never before been
used), and yet among them all is not found a single deadly poison,
nor even a dangerous substance.
"The simplicity of the Physio-Medical practice Has been an objec
tion to its universal application. It should be its greatest recommenda
tion.
"The beauty and excellence of all science consists in its ability
to reduce confusion to order, to extract philosophy from mystery,
and to bring all the operations of art within the comprehension of
the ordinary mind.
"The human body is supported and health sustained by the
orderly process of digestion, circulation and disposition of a few
organized substances, composed chiefly of carbon, oxygen hydrogen,
nitrogen, phosphorus, lime and other organic mineral elements. All
the motions of all the organs are produced by the simple contraction
and relaxation of their constituent fibres.
"Disease is a condition that prevents this full, free, and regular
action. All that is necessary to bring relief and establish order, is to
remove obstacles to this action, and excite the organs to their proper
motions. Whatever will invariably, promptly, powerfully and per
manently relax, contract, and stimulate, will remove all obstructions to
vital action, and cure all forms of disease, is a true medicine. As
stimulation is nothing more than rapidly alternating relaxation and
contraction [an interchange of activity as in the storage battery], it
follows that the two motions in different ways and degrees of rapidity,
sometimes relaxing, sometimes contracting, with greater or less
velocity, are all that is necessary.
"We may discover new methods and means of carrying them
out, and new modes of application, but the principles are the laws of
man's nature and they cannot progress. Let these be adopted and
consistently obeyed, and no longer is there any trouble about the
THE THOMSONIAN TREATMENT OF DISEASE 9
'secondary' action of the remedies for disease; no longer is the
physician compelled to guess at the circumstances in which his
remedies may be converted into poisons nor poisons into breast-milk ;
no longer to lift his club and strike, nor to raise his gun and fire at
random, thus multiplying diseases and increasing their mortality. No
longer must he grope without a clue, like Homer's Cyclops around
his cave. But emancipated from the tyranny of the schools of physic
and guided by the Physio-Medical principles, he sees at a glance,
the character and conditions of disease; knows for a certainty the
requirements and processes by which it may be routed, and proceeds
to work in a scientific manner, with the same fixedness of principles
and certainty of success that he would bring to bear upon the practice
of any other art derived from the principles of its appropriate
science. He cannot, indeed, expect to prolong human life forever,
nor to reconstruct the organs of the body that may have been fatally
marred ; nor restore the functions of organs that are totally deprived
of the power to perform them ; but he can learn how to restore that
which is capable of restoration, and he is blameworthy if he does
anything to hasten dissolution, or entail upon his patient any chronic
malady.
"It is impossible to perform a surgical operation of any magni
tude without producing several injurious effects, each one of which
argues against operations as a means of cure save in exceptional
cases :
"1. The amount of vitality destroyed by the fear and dread of
passing through an operation, combined with the operation frequently
places cases beyond hope, a case that might easily have been cured
if the correct treatment had been prescribed.
"2. To cut into the deep tissues of the body makes a severe
wound in addition to the already existing condition. The amount
of vitality required to heal such a wound draws heavily on the vital
force of the patient.
"3. The anaesthetic usually administered under such circum
stances still further reduces the vital force of the sufferer.
"4. The pain and weakness caused by the operation has a sim
ilar effect.
"Any one of these detrimental influences frequently is sufficient
to bring about the death of a very weak patient.
10 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
"Consider for a moment the contrast: If, instead of fear, you
substitute hope; if, in place of pain, you give ease and comfort; if,
instead of benumbing and deadening the sensatory nerves with a
poison, you stimulate and strengthen with a real medicine, the life of
a patient is often saved when otherwise that life would be lost. It is
an appalling fact that actual murder is often committed by perform
ing needless surgical operations, and prescribing benumbing poisons as
medicine.
"Why have old modes failed? Simply because the means em
ployed were not adapted to accomplish the end desired.
"For instance, in speaking of a certain case, you will sometimes
hear a physician say : 'I have tried everything, but nothing seems to
do any good.' Now the real remedy or remedies suitable in the case
he may be wholly ignorant of, consequently, he has not tried every
thing. The number of agents tried, even if millions, count for nothing,
and most of them may actually have been harmful, if their tendency
was not in line with the objective aimed at. A physician should be able
to judge of this. Herein lies the test of his skill. The correct remedies
have a tendency to produce the results sought, but a million non-
indicated substances will have no power to bring relief and eradicate
cause.
"One such authority, from whom we have quoted, made the
claim that all medicines are poisonous. Now real medicines are not
poisonous at all. One might just as well, and with equal truth, say that
all foods are poisonous. The very nature of poison is to destroy
living matter. True medicine is a substance which tends to supply
necessary material to the bodily substances and to increase the life
principle in man.
"Poisonous substances irritate and provoke the vital centers to
increased activity, and frequently, in spite of being poisonous, if the
person to whom given possesses a goodly degree of vitality, a cure
will result. In such cases the drug, or drugs, act upon the inert system
as does the driver's whip on the fagging horse. But poisons never
add any permanent energy to the vital centers in man, and in cases
where the force in these centers is very low, their effect is to exhaust
it entirely and thus cause the death of the sufferer.
"Real medicine, whether in the form of an herb or a food, is a
substance that will increase the energy in the vital centers without
THE THQMSONIAN TREATMENT OF DISEASE 11
working any injury. Taking this view of the matter, a view which
is the opinion of the foremost investigators at the present time and
is substantiated by every experiment made by dietitians, it will be
readily seen why the old school of medicine has been so frequently
unsuccessful and has had to change from one theory to another,
changing from poisons to toxins and serums of animal origin, and
why they have been disappointed in the results obtained."
It will also be recognized by every thinking man, that if we are
to gain our object, we must take the right course, employing the
means and measures necessary to success. There are hundreds of
non-poisonous remedies now in use which are being more and more
substituted for the poisonous drugs formerly prescribed and to the
great benefit of all concerned.
Every one, whether physician or layman, who holds in his hands
the life of a human being, should seriously consider what an awful
thing it is to give a drug the tendency of which is to destroy, while
trying to cure. To say the least, it is an exceedingly contradictory,
and unreasonable act.
This is another confession made by some of the most eminent
physicians in their ignorance of the real nature of physiological
disorders called disease, and the uncertainty of the action of their
remedies ; hence, their conclusion, "medicine is not a science." It is not
to be wondered at, that they came to this conclusion, when we take
even a cursory glance at the unscientific remedial agents and methods
which they employ in their efforts to cure. There has been too much
false reasoning in regard to medicine. For instance, a physician or
patient complains that a certain remedy has lost its effect. If we use
reason and consider for a moment, we will quickly see that the
nature of a remedy, in itself, never changes. This is a fact of the
greatest importance. On this point, Prof. Kirk of Edinburgh, Scotland,
says:
"
'Circumstances change but essential natures never. A remedy is
always the same in nature, and will have the same effect whenever it
is used in the same circumstances. It is not wise, merely to say that
the remedy has lost its effect and throw it aside as useless. True
skill in such a case looks to the circumstances. The remedy has done
all it could reasonably be expected to do ; but the circumstances have
changed, and another effect is now required.
12 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
" 'When we take the common sense view of the matter we are
left free to discover the real remedy. We have seen the benefit of
this many times over when the actual remedy was found, applied, and
the patient cured. This remedy has often proved in many cases
exceedingly simple. For instance, we have placed a finger on the root
of a nerve supplying the muscles to the part in which the pain was
felt and that pain instantly ceased. We have continued the treatment
for perhaps half an hour or so and the pain did not return. We were
told that all our remedies had failed. Every one of those remedies
had had its true effect and had never lost that, only it was another
remedy that was required. What was needed was only a little
knowledge of the wondrous system of the living frame of man.
It is a most precious gift that is given to all who accept
it,
that of
knowing how to pass from
a
remedy when
it
is
not the right one,
and so be open to find the correct one. Let us gain
a
real understand
ing of the nature of all things with which we have to deal, and let us
work on that understanding. God himself [the functioning Law] will
teach us when we are willing to follow in the light offered us.'
"
3.
BASIC PRINCIPLES OF THE NATURA SYSTEM
1. Matter, in all its diversity of character, quality, form and
combination, may be classified into two great divisions, namely:
Organic and inorganic.
2. Organic matter includes the two vast kingdoms of Nature:
the animal (brute and man) and the vegetable.
3. Inorganic matter includes all bodies not possessed of conscious
life, or such as are not endowed with a capacity for life, that is, free
movement.
4. Inorganic and dead matter is controlled or governed by laws
of force, embracing chemistry and physics and natural philosophy.
5. Organic or living bodies, though influenced to a certain extent
by the laws which govern inorganic matter, are sustained in their
living state by vital laws. These laws hold supremacy over and control
those of physics and chemistry, which they modify and render sub
servient on many occasions to the purpose of vitality.
6. The principle of life is the same in all animated beings ; and
the human animal economy is governed by the same general laws as
that of the truly human economy.
7. Life, or the living state, is a series of actions and reactions,
or motions in animal matter, of which organized bodies are alone
susceptible, and it may be truthfully said of them that "activity is
life."
8. Without organization there cannot be life. Again, organized
bodies, though possessed of a capacity for life, require the aid of
stimulants (active agents) to call them into activity.
9. Animal life can be supported only by external means obtained
by it or supplied to it.
10. Life is created and kept functioning by the influence of heat
or caloric activity upon organized bodies.
13
14 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
11. Heat, or caloric activity, is the power or agency by which
other stimulants such as atmospheric air, light, electricity, galvanism,
food, drink, medicine, and all reconstructing agents are made to act
upon the system.
12. Caloric activity brings into play that power (an electro-
galvanic potency, since life is the result of action and reaction, nega
tive upon positive, acid upon alkali) which is the immediate agent of
those varied and complicated actions which form and fashion the
organs ; conveys to and appropriates nourishment to every organ and
tissue; sustains animal matter in a state of composition; selects and
expels effete or worn out matter by the pores of the skin, the kidneys,
and other depuratory organs ; carries on all the various secretions and
enables the organs to react against or resist the influences that tend
to their destruction.
These last two propositions form the cornerstone, or basis, of
the physio-medical art of medicine.1
13. In the early period of animal life (during the embryonic
stage) until the organs become developed, heat is derived from the
mother. As the organs become developed, they are endowed with the
power of producing or generating heat. After birth the supply of
animal heat is dependent upon this function of calorification, or heat
generating power ; thus vital action, first produced by heat, creates the
power, or generates the influence necessary to the continuance of its
action. Heat is evolved in every part of the system, and the amount
of caloric activity generated will be proportionate as the vital action is
greater.
14. As the heat of the system is lessened, vital action will dimin
ish in that proportion. If the system is deprived of caloric activity for
a certain length of time, all the preservative, recuperative, and sana
tive phenomena cease. It is the same with oxygen.
15. The stomach is the seat or "throne" of the vital powers;
the main center, or source, with heat and oxygen carries on and
governs the important vital functions of circulation, respiration,
digestion, nutrition, assimilation, and the activity of the various
secretions.
1. Presently the Natura system.
BASIC PRINCIPLES OF THE NATURA SYSTEM 15
16. The stomach is in almost every instance the seat of disease.
When this organ is disordered,2 the power of generating heat and
nervous energy is diminished, and consequently the actions and
functions of other organs, especially that of the liver, become
weakened or deranged. In fever (temperature due to the extra efforts
of the vital organs to throw out the enemies of life), although the
heat of the surface is increased above the natural standard, the
amount of heat generated may be less than is produced in a state of
health. The secretions and transpirations from the skin and mucous
surface being suspended, the heat is locked up in the system. This,
contrary to popular belief, is a wise provision for retaining the heat,
in order to sustain the recuperative actions, and thus effect a crisis in
disease. Experiments have shown that in most inflammatory diseases,
the blood contains less positive electricity than it does when taken
from one in health. As the functions of the stomach and bowels are
restored to a healthy condition, a natural warmth and activity become
established throughout the system.
17. The same means that will restore the natural temperature
of the system, as do pure stimulants (Capsicum, for instance) and
the vapor baths, will also increase the electrogalvanic, or nervous
power, which governs the circulation and all the vital functions. It is
to be noted especially that the healthy activity of the digestive powers
is due to the saliva—alkaline —mixed with the food we eat and which
comes in contact with the digestive acids in the stomach. There is an
electrogalvanic activity set in motion just as we find it in the modern
storage battery.
18. As the natural warmth of the system is reduced, either from
a disordered stomach or from any other cause, the nervous power
which maintains an equilibrium (equilibrium alone is health) in the
circulation is enfeebled ; hence in disease a loss of the natural balance
of equilibrium in the circulation of the blood is a common occurrence.
19. An undue accumulation of blood in any part of the body is
attended by a deficiency (unbalance) in other parts. Thus in fevers
there is an unnatural quantity of blood at the surface, and a cor
responding lack inwardly ; determinations of blood to the head are
accompanied with a loss in the lower extremities.
2. The importance of a proper diet which sustains, and supports but does
not congest, is here indicated.
16 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
20. The same means that will correct a disordered stomach and
"raise the heat" of the system to its natural standard will tend to
restore the natural balance to the circulation of the blood.
21. As the natural heat and nervous power are reduced, either
by a cold (congestion interfering with proper circulation), dis
ordered stomach (interference with the interblending of acids and
alkalies), or by any other cause whatsoever, the functioning of
digestion, nutrition, and assimilation becomes enfeebled or disordered.
The same cause also deranges the secreting organs, as the liver and
glands of the mucous membranes. In many instances in disease, the
liver (the most important organ in the body of man) ceases to secrete
bile ; and the excessive thirst accompanying fever arises from dimin
ished or suspended secretions of the glands of the mucous mem
brane.
Relative to this last proposition, it may be said in passing that if
the activity of the liver could be maintained at normal, man would
never know disease, would not grow old, would always be happy,
never know a "blue" moment, and quickly elevate himself to the
plane of the "gods."
22. Whatever will cleanse the stomach, restore the natural heat,
and produce perspiration will also tend to restore the digestion,
assimilation, secretions, and in fine remove every derangement which
occurs in disease.
23. The lower order of animals, as in the hibernating species,
can bear the abstraction of heat from their bodies without producing
disorganization; they sink into a state of torpor and insensibility
during winter, and on the return of warm weather are reawakened
into life and activity.
24. In the higher order of animals, and in man, the abstraction
of heat can be borne below a certain degree only for a limited period
without producing disorganization and death. Hence, they are
endowed with a power to react against cold and other deleterious
agents; and by thus establishing a counteracting force or influence,
life and organization are preserved against causes tending to their
destruction. Many of the symptoms which occur in disease, such as
pain and a state of fever, are caused by the recuperative, life-sustain
ing activity, the organs being driven, as it were, to a new mode of
BASIC PRINCIPLES OF THE NATURA SYSTEM 17
action with the design of counteracting the influence of offending
causes and regaining their lost vitality.
25. Fever (rise or fall in temperature) does not constitute a
disease but is always an evidence of the existence of an offending
cause in the system, a friendly warning that nature is struggling to
remove such a cause.
26. Living creatures are ever surrounded by agents or forces
which exert an influence in direct antagonism to the laws of life and
tend to subvert or destroy vital action. Thus the living state is held,
as it were, in a balance between opposing powers.
27. The direct effect of cold and other morbific agents upon the
system is to weaken vital action and to lessen the power of generating
heat: hence, disease of every form and variety commences with
symptoms which show that the vital powers are weakened ; these are
lassitude, general debility, coldtwss of the surface and extremities,
and chilliness. Cold and damp feet exert an influence in weakening
and deranging the natural and healthy order of activity in the system,
and thus prove a fruitful source of disease, yet would be powerless
if there were no congestions present in the system due to an improper
diet, inactivity, and various other causes. Dampness operates as a
conducting medium by which the caloric activity, and more especially
the electrogalvanic fluids, escape not only from the lower extremities,
but also from the digestive functions and all the viscera of the
abdomen by means of the nerves, which form a connecting chain of
conductors or channels throughout the system for the passage or
circulation of this nerve fluid. As the nervous influence escapes from
the system, the functions, over which it has control, become enfeebled
and deranged.
28. The first symptoms in disease prove a weakened condition
of vital activity. As the constitution reacts, a new train of symptoms
ensues. The pulse becomes quicker and stronger, the surface becomes
hot and dry, and the system is in a state of feverish excitement; in
other words, the patient has a fever —the battle between the destruc
tive and constructive agents is on. The constitution with all its
constructive agents struggles against disease and occasions the fever,
and it is by this power of reaction that disease is overcome.
Intermittent fever, as it is termed, commences with a chill. As
18 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
the system reacts, fever ensues ; and the recuperative efforts which
occasion the temperature, restore the heat, bringing on perspiration
and frequently other critical evacuations, more especially from the
kidneys, by which the disease is partly or wholly removed until the
return of the succeeding chill when the constitution institutes the
same preservative, recuperative activity. In the eruptive diseases which
are always of zymotic (inner filth) origin, as smallpox, measles,
chickenpox, and scarlet fever there is always in the commencement
a general debility, chilliness, and a disordered stomach. These are the
direct effects of the morbific agents that produce the disease ; and but
for a counteracting influence, vital action would be quickly overcome.
The constitution (stored vital force) establishes a reaction or fever,
by which the disease is thrown to the surface, producing an eruption
on the skin.
29. The design of reaction or fever is to restore the lost heat
and vitality, and to remove all morbific or deleterious agents and
their effects from the system, and thus preserve it from destruction.
30. A course of treatment that will cleanse the stomach and
bowels and restore their natural activity and at the same time remove
obstructions from the system will automatically eliminate fever, by
assisting to bring about what the fever is endeavoring to accomplish.
When the offending cause is removed, there will be nothing to excite
fever or reaction.
There is another and directly opposite plan (that at present almost
universally practiced) for subduing fever, to wit: Reduce the vital
forces or the recuperative efforts of nature. This, though the fashion
able and accepted practice, is nevertheless directly against nature's
laws, is frequently unsuccessful, and is hazardous to future health,
if not to the life, of the patients on whom it is tried.
There is hardly a person who has never had nothing more than
the la grippe or influenza, who is not suffering from some weakness.
This is absolutely nothing less than the aftereffects of the fashionable
treatment frequently prescribed.
31. One of the most important indications in the treatment of
all acute diseases attended with high arterial excitement or violent
fever, is to overcome the contracted or spasmodic condition of the
capillary vessels by relaxing the system and cleansing the stomach
with the one universal and non-harmful agent—Lobelia.
BASIC PRINCIPLES OF THE NATURA SYSTEM 19
32. To effect such a relaxation of the system there is probably
no agent of equal value. This medicine exerts a surprising influence
in equalizing the nervous power and in relaxing the system without in
any way weakening the vital properties. In many instances, however,
fever and its cause may be removed by the same means that alone will
overcome a chill, i.e., pure stimulants and vapor or hot baths, vapor
baths preferred. According to the physio-medical philosophy, medical
men of the dominant school have not made a proper distinction
between true stimulants that strengthen and promote a healthy action
and those agents which occasion morbid excitement, at the expense
of the vital forces. Brandy and other alcoholics, frequently excellent
medicines at the very onset of a cold, generally aggravate fevers, and
hence it has been inferred that all stimulants are improper in such
cases. A patient who would be injured by brandy would be benefitted,
in the same condition, by taking one grain of Capsicum every 30
minutes.
33. As a consequence of a reduction and derangement of vital
action, there are, in disease, thickened, morbid secretions, termed
"canker" by Dr. Thomson. These are formed on the lining membrane
of the stomach and bowels and indicated by "cold sores" in the mouth.
In acute diseases, as in dysentery, pleurisy, various forms of eruptive
diseases, and all other febrile affections, there is a tendency more or
less, to putrefaction, which proves deleterious to the constitution. The
stomach becoming coated with thickened, tenacious secretions or
"canker," is a general cause of a disease being protracted as this
indicates a "low" state.
It was an observation of Dr. Thomson, that "where there is a
settled fever there is canker seated in the stomach." The tongue, as
stated, is more or less coated with cankerous or morbid secretions,
and its appearance affords a criterion by which to judge the condition
of the entire mucous membrane. The tendency to soften and clean
off this canker from the edges of the tongue is usually one of the first
and most favorable signs of the successful passing of a crisis.
34. To free the mucous membranes from canker is the primary
importance in the cure of disease. This requires, in the first place, the
use of agents that will excite the secretions and restore the inward or
natural heat by which, as Dr. Thomson expressed
it,
"the canker
is
20 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
brought to a point," and as these morbid secretions soften they may
be removed.
First of all then, the stomach should be cleansed thoroughly by
the reasonable use of Lobelia and warm water. After the stomach
is freed of its foul contents, always present in fevers of every descrip
tion, the vital forces are reinforced with capsicum and the morbid
condition of the entire system is protected by Echinacea. Here we
have three sovereign remedies, and all of vegetable origin. In fact,
these are not medicines, but true foods supplying the system with
material that it requires to balance itself.
35. In violent local determination of blood to a part or organ, as
in croup, inflammation of the brain, violent pleurisy, inflammation of
the kidneys, apoplexy, and other like diseases, one of the most im
portant indications in the treatment is to overcome this undue
determination of the blood to the affected part by relaxing the system
with Indian tobacco, either via the stomach or administered by means
of the internal bath.
36. Finally, we believe that the physiomedical system3 fulfills
all the important requirements for the treatment of the ailing; and
when scientifically applied (with reason and understanding), it will
bring about a balance and equilibrium, which is, generally speaking,
a cure.
3. The present Natura system which includes the Thomsonian and physio
medical.
4.
EMETICS IN THE ELIMINATION OF DISEASE
In the Thomsonian system of practice, emetics constituted the
most effectual agency employed in the treatment of disease (the relief
of indispositions). There is scarcely a form of sickness in which the
use of emetics as a prompt cleansing agent will not prove beneficial,
and in many instances they are indispensibly necessary to the recovery
of the patient.1 Previous to the discoverey of the medical properties
of Indian tobacco by Samuel Thomson, poisonous substances were
employed almost exclusively as emetics.
In many cases of slight or sudden attacks of disease, all that is
required by the operation of an emetic is to throw off the foul
contents of the stomach which had oppressed and deranged its
functions. But where disease has become chronic, other important
remedial agents are essential. They relax the system, and in this way
overcome obstructions, equalize the circulation of the blood and the
nervous influence —invigorate the energies of the stomach, and re
move morbid secretions from its mucous surface; restore the secre
tions, and in fact, assist the constitution in resisting disease, and thus
aid her efforts in reestablishing a state of health.
If there is a general fever pervading the body, it is evidence of an
abnormal condition of the stomach; and hence at the very onset of
fever, the use of emetics is particularly indicated. Whenever a fever
arises from the cause of undigested food, worms in the intestines,
the stomach's energies sunken or its functions prostrated by poisonous
influences or previous exposure to cold, emetics are indicated.
In measles, scarlet fever, and smallpox the disease will be
rendered more mild in character, less dangerous, and frequently of
1. From mother nature learn wisdom is one of God's greatest commands.
For instance, watch the action of a sick animal, especially the dog. First of
all, it refuses all food; next it will eat grasses or herbs until it is able to
empty its stomach, then it rests until the normal functioning of the organ is
established, when it will again accept food. Animals who follow this plan
seldom die of disease.
21
22 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
shorter duration by the early administration of emetics to thoroughly
cleanse the stomach.
In the disease of children, emetics constitute by far the most
efficient remedy. Vomiting is nature's method of relieving the stomach
in infancy. The vomiting of a child after feeding is the most certain
indication that its digestive organism is functioning properly. We
can not do wrong in giving emetics to sick children, more especially at
an early stage of disease. In sudden attacks of fever, croup, convul
sions, or in cases of acute indigestion (so-called heart failure),
Lobelia should be given, either in powder in warm teas, in tablet form
with warm water, the tincture in warm water, or the third preparation
of Thomson. The latter is particularly adapted to cases of spasms
and when the heat of the system is very low, as also in advanced
stages of disease. No danger need be apprehended from vomiting a
child too much in croup, nor in any other form of violent attacks of
disease.
In protracted chills, where the patient is in a stupor, the third
preparation of Lobelia should be freely given, with the application of
external warmth and friction to the surface with a view of bringing
on a reaction. When there is unconsciousness, any preparation of
Lobelia may be freely given via the bowels by the use of the internal
bath or Murphy drip.
Emetics administered in the early period of scarlet fever will
frequently exert a powerful influence in moderating the violence and
in shortening the duration of this dreaded disease.
In bleeding from the lungs, the effect of the operation is to attract
blood from the lungs and diffuse it through the system, by which the
bleeding will be checked. Warm foot baths, or the vapor bath, should
be employed to aid in restoring the natural equilibrium of the
circulation of the blood.
In bleeding from the stomach, in which blood will be raised by
vomiting, the employment of active emetics are indicated, not only to
dislodge accumulations of blood in the stomach, which may have
oppressed its energies, but to cause a distribution of the blood through
out the system and to strengthen the weakened capillary vessels of
the mucous membrane of the stomach. The third preparation of
Lobelia given freely, together with the application of the vapor bath
when possible, is generally successful in the treatment of bleeding
EMETICS IN THE ELIMINATION OF DISEASE 23
from the stomach, and it is not known ever to have failed in checking
the hemorrhage.
In uterine hemorrhage the flow of blood frequently may be
controlled by active emetics, aided by the injection of geranium and
bayberry directly to the parts, or packing with cotton which has been
saturated with this combination.
In severe colds and sore throat, either from inflammation or the
existence of ulcers, emetics are of great benefit.
Emetics are more effectual than any other remedy in the relief
of bronchitis and other forms of disease of the chest. The most severe
paroxysms of asthma may be overcome by a thorough emetic, more
especially when the emetic is preceded by the application of a vapor
bath, rendering the system more sensitive to the impression of
medicine.
In pleurisy and inflammation of the lungs, emetics may be
employed with great advantage, especially in the early period of the
disease. The act of vomiting is not attended with any great pain or
difficulty in the most violent attacks of pleurisy or inflammation of
the lungs. As the patient becomes nauseated from the action of the
emetic, the system is relaxed, which is the explanation why a patient
may vomit with so little pain or difficulty in active inflammation in
the pleura or lungs.
In their wide and pervading operation emetics subdue, or have a
tendency to subdue, vascular activtity to remove cutaneous constric
tion, promote absorption from the lungs, facilitate expectoration,
lessen dyspnoea cough, and sanguinous discharge, also calm the
system by equalizing excitement, and thus reestablishing that just
balance in the distribution of the blood, on which the restoration and
maintenance of health so materially depends.
In whooping cough more benefit may be derived from the use of
emetics than from any other single remedy. In violent cases an emetic
should be given daily, or even two or three times a day. In those cases
when violent paroxysms of coughing are observed to come on at
certain periods, it is a good practice to place the patient under the
influence of Lobelia, even giving the amount necessary to induce
vomiting previous to the time at which the paroxysms of coughing
usually occur.
Emetics form an important part of the treatment for rheuma
24 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
tism, lumbago, gout, neuralgia, etc. No remedy under my observation
produces so much relief in these forms of disease as an active emetic,
and the efficiency is greatly enhanced by the previous application of
a vapor bath. The reason why these emetics are of so great a value is
due to their power to establish a balance in the system—an equilib
rium.
Of the various remedies that have been employed in the treat
ment of dyspepsia emetics have proved the most successful. Even in
those cases where there is extreme tenderness at the pit of the
stomach, an emetic after a vapor bath will afford more and quicker
relief in general than any other remedy. In the early stage of
dyspepsia, digestion in most instances may be restored by one or two
active emetics followed by the free use of Capsicum with the meals.
Sick-headache, depending upon a disordered condition of the
stomach, may be speedily relieved by an emetic.
Emetics are well adapted in the relief of every variety of colic or
cramp of the stomach. In diarrhoea, dysentery, and cholera morbus,
digestion is nil, and the stomach contains more or less foul matter,
and its mucous surface is coated with thickened secretions interfering
with its functions, which naturally increases the distress of the latter
and favors the disease. To excite free vomiting is particularly indicated
in the treatment of such disorders. Besides relieving the stomach of
foul matter and giving tone to the organ, such emetics exert a
beneficial influence upon the secretions, causing a determination of
the blood to the surface, restoring capillary circulation, and aiding the
efforts of nature to restore healthy activity in the mucous membrane
of the bowels.
Epilepsy, or falling sickness as it is most generally known, is in
many instances traceable to a congested or otherwise disordered
condition of the stomach and indicates the employment of emetics.
By exhibiting them just before the time for the onset of a paroxysm,
they will frequently prevent
it,
and even
if
they fail wholly to do this
they render the spasms milder and of shorter duration. Nor
is
this all
they accomplish
;
for by the strong and direct impression made on
the stomach and nervous system, the commencement in that organ
of the wrong association constituting the disease
is
broken, and
it
will
yield more readily to indicated remedies.
Nearly the same view may be taken of hysteria. Even admitting
EMETICS IN THE ELIMINATION OF DISEASE 25
that the disease is mostly the result of a congested uterus, it frequently
does proceed from gastric irritation and demands to be treated
accordingly. Whatever may be the immediate cause of the paroxysm,
no remedy is so quickly effective as an emetic. It promptly allays the
convulsive agitation of the nervous system and creates a state of
mental composure that invites restorative sleep.
The best plan is always to give an emetic during the paroxysm
to shorten its duration, and afterwards treat the cause which will
usually be found to have its seat in the uterus. It may be an irritated
or ulcerated womb, which directly affects the nervous system and
brings about the paroxysm. Lobelia is of immense value in preventing
the tension of the nervous system. The uterus, in the meantime, must
be treated for the cause. When that is removed, the effect will cease.
Apoplexy, brought on as it so frequently is by a mass of
undigested food in the stomach, calls for a free exhibition of emetics,
of which the third preparation of Lobelia is appropriate. It should also
be administered by enema and allowed to be retained in the bowels to
assist in exciting vomiting, to relax the system, and equalize the
nervous system. Even if the seat of apoplexy should be in the brain,
and considered incurable, the treatment indicated will be of benefit,
and it is always harmless. Many forms of mania or neurotic symptoms
are frequently the result of a disordered condition of the stomach,
and many cases have been permanently cured by first freely prescrib
ing emetics and then restoring the tone and functions of the digestive
organism.
In chronic dyspepsia, as in other forms of deeply-seated diseases,
the mucous membrance of the stomach becomes more or less coated
with a false and morbid membrane; a general torpor then pervades
the system, the nervous energy is protracted, and the activity of the
mind is greatly depressed. In such cases there is no plan of treatment
that offers equal success comparable with that of the frequent use of
the pack bath and stimulating emetics. This plan will prove the most
effectual in restoring the secretions and bringing about the detach
ment and removal of false membranes lining the stomach. Without
effecting this in some manner, the functions of the stomach cannot be
permanently restored. It has been observed, and this should be borne
in mind, that patients who have long been affected with dyspepsia are
very liable to experience severe pains under the operation of an
26 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
emetic and complain of feeling worse about the time the disease is
taking a favorable turn.
Affections of the head, in general, proceed from derangement
of the stomach ; so that not only in sick -headache are emetics indicated,
but also the most violent neuralgic pains in the head, accompanied
with extreme tenderness of the scalp, will be relieved promptly by an
emetic which acts freely in emptying the stomach. Even genuine tic-
douloureux, the neuralgia of the face, has been overcome by the
same practice, and with such facility as to place it decidedly above
all other modes of treating this most painful, and hitherto nearly
unmanageable, affection.
The operation of emetics in conjunction with the vapor or pack
baths are applicable to cases of dropsy. Besides cleansing the stomach
and placing the system under the relaxing influence of Lobelia, they
promote the action of the absorbent vessels, and consequently the use
of the remedy is particularly well adapted to such conditions.
Emetics form an important part of the treatment in the cure of
jaundice as it is of the utmost importance to free the stomach of all
morbid matter, thoroughily cleansing and toning it. Many cases of
this disease are quickly cured by the administration of Lobelia and
followed by stimulating compositions. Cases that are deeply seated
will require, as do other forms of settled (chronic) disease, a repeti
tion of the course of medicine together with the indicated intermediate
treatment.
Torpor of the liver, which attends jaundice and bilious fever, is
generally removed, and the functions of this important organ restored
through the influence of vapor or pack baths and active emetics. To
restore the natural temperature of the body, impart electricity, relax
the system with Lobelia; and together with the influence of straining
efforts to free the stomach of congestice matter, this constitutes the
most effectual means of relieving congestion of the liver and of
quickly restoring its functions. Lobelia administered via enema and
retained exerts the same beneficial influence upon the system as when
administered via the stomach, and if for any reason the stomach will
not retain a medicine this is the proper way to administer it. Many
sufferers will not permit any medicine to be given to them to cause
vomiting, as they labor under the mistaken impression that such a
medicine is not indicated in their case. The physician will, therefore,
EMETICS IN THE ELIMINATION OF DISEASE 27
be wise when dealing with this class of patients and administer
Lobelia by means of the internal bath, the enema.
Whenever the system experiences a severe shock, as by falling
from a height, a violent blow, or by a severe burn or scald, digestion
will be suspended ; and if the accident should occur soon after, or
even within an hour or two after the patient has partaken of a heavy
meal, the stomach should immediately be evacuated by an active
emetic. This may save the patient a great deal of suffering and will
materially lessen the danger of the injury.
Emetics like Lobelia may be employed with perfect safety dur
ing every stage of pregnancy. Most of the derangements of the
system consequent upon that state, such as a feeling of fullness,
dizziness, or violent pain in the head, pain and distress in the back
and loins, extreme sickness, water brash —that most disagreeable
affliction —and distress at the stomach, may be quickly relieved and
entirely eliminated by the active Lobelia emetic preceded by the use
of an enema and the sheet ablution. Women carried through several
complete courses of medicine during the two weeks preceding their
confinement, inz'ariably derive great benefit and complete relief from
distress by this method. A full course of medicine administered
just before confinement is incomparably the best plan that has ever
been adopted for insuring an easy and safe labor.
Puerperal fever, convulsions, and other forms of disease which
sometimes are resultant on confinement may, in the greater number
of instances, be prevented or at least the system be placed in a far
better condition to resist the influence of the exciting cause of the
disease by a course of medicine.
The condition of the stomach always excites a controlling
influence over local diseases, such as painful swellings in every part
of the body, swollen breasts, swellings in the groin, neuralgia, local
inflammations, gout, diseases of the kidneys, carbuncles, affections of
the spine, and abscesses. In the early stage painful swellings can be
brought to a crisis and dispersed without suppuration taking place
by giving vapor or pack baths and emetics, together with a proper use
of the enema to assist the action of the bowels in cleansing the system
of impurities.
Just in the proportion as the stomach is disordered, will local
diseases become more difficult to cure. On the contrary, indolent
28 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
ulcers of several years standing have been healed in a few weeks,
chiefly by improving the condition of the system generally and more
particularly that of the stomach by courses of medicine of which the
emetic constituted the most important part of the treatment ; elimina
tion of morbid matter being the first requisite in the cure of disease
irrespective of its nature or location.
Even when the seat of disease is located principally in the brain,
emetics may be given with great advantage. This is because the brain
is actually the positive section (station) of the nervous system—the
solar plexus being the other —the negative. Whatever affects the
nervous system, even in a small way, will most certainly and directly
affect the brain. Lobelia has its greatest influence on the nervous
system, and consequently its effects on the brain are just as great as
on any part of the nervous system.
The stomach possesses a very low degree of sensibility so that its
functions may be greatly depleted or disordered without the patient
experiencing any symptoms of disease, except in parts remote from
the stomach. One who is subject to a weakness in any part of the
spine will experience an increase of the trouble when the stomach
becomes more disordered than usual. In many instances disease of
the spine has been eliminated by the use of pack baths and emetics.
Eruptions of the skin, such as scald head, nettlerash, and eczema,
are frequently occasioned by derangement of the digestive functions,
and these eruptions may be effectually treated by emetics followed
by proper medication.
Only a sufficient amount of Lobelia should be given to cause the
sufferer to vomit freely; immediately thereafter tonics prescribed to
give heat and strength to the patient.
Lastly every man, woman, and child would benefit beyond
expectation by fortnightly cleansing the stomach by the use of
Lobelia, and this followed by a stomach bitters.
STEAM, OR VAPOR, AND PACK BATHS
Although the use of the vapor or steam bath as a means of curing
disease was employed many centuries ago, the principle upon which it
operates in removing disease was not fully explained, nor its utility
in aiding the operation of medicine recognized or appreciated, until
Dr. Thomson began to utilize it in the elimination of those factors
which cause disease in the human system.
The vapor or steam bath constitutes an important part of the
Thomsonian system of practice fulfilling several important indications
in the relief of the ailing. It diffuses warmth through the system,
equalizes the circulation, imparts electricity to the blood, and increases
the sensibilities of the system to the impressions of medicine.
"In all cases," said Dr. Thomson, "where the heat of the body
is so far exhausted as not to be rekindled by using the medicines, and
being shielded from the surrounding air by a blanket, or being in bed,
and chills or stupor attend the patient, then applied heat by steaming
becomes indispensable. Heat caused by steam in the manner I use it is
more natural in producing perspiration than any dry heat that can
be applied to the body in any other manner, for a dry heat will only
serve to dry the air and prevent perspiration in many cases of disease,
where a steam by water, or vinegar and water, will promote perspira
tion and add a natural warmth to the body, thereby increasing the
power of life and motion and aid greatly in removing disease."
There is scarcely a form of disease or a condition of the system
in which the steam bath may not be employed not only with safety
but with decided benefit. One of the most important results of the
application of the bath is adding warmth to and invigorating the
blood. It has been ascertained that in disease even of the most
inflammatory character, the blood contains less electricity than it does
when in a healthy condition, and by the employment of these baths
in the early stages of many diseases, they may be quickly removed.
To diseases of an inflammatory character preceded by colds, with
exception of erysipelas, vapor or steam bath bring quick relief.
29
30 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
These baths may also be employed with immense benefit in
diseases of the urinary organs (strangury, gravel, and retention of
urine) and inflammation of the lungs.
Slight attacks of jaundice can be relieved in many instances by a
single vapor bath, followed by an emetic and then a stimulant. In
croup, where the disease has continued several hours, the vapor bath
(vinegar added to the water) is almost indispensable in order to
restore the natural warmth of the blood and assist the operation of
medicine.
In asthma when the system is in a cold and torpid condition,
medicine will frequently fail to afford much relief. In this form of
disease, it has been found that the hot air bath is as effectual as the
vapor bath, and this may be administered with much less trouble.
In eruptive diseases, such as smallpox, scarlet fever, varioloid,
and measles, the vapor bath may be used with benefit at any stage of
the disease though, in these cases, the pack bath is to be preferred. If
the eruption is slow to appear, applying a vapor bath will bring it to
the surface. Or if there is a tendency to retrocession of the eruption,
the vapor bath should be applied, or at least a moist heat applied,
around the patient; and a powerful stimulant administered, such as
the third preparation of Lobelia; and a stimulating injection given.
In every stage of smallpox, the vapor bath is grateful to the patient
and aids the constitution in throwing out the disease. In the later
period of eruptive diseases, when scabs are forming and the patient
is much distressed, the steam bath will afford more relief than any
other means that can be employed, and when the scales are dry and
falling off there is no better remedy for restoring the natural healthy
condition of the skin. Scarlet fever and measles are very liable to be
followed by dropsy, running of ears, swelling of glands, etc. arising
in part from an unhealthy condition of the skin, which may be
remedied by steam baths.
In violent colds and catarrh where the breathing is greatly
oppressed and the skin dry and drawn, or cold and clammy, and the
patient is much distressed, the employment of vapor baths becomes
highly beneficial not only to relieve the distressing symptoms but to
facilitate to operation of medicine.
In peritonitis, which is a most fatal form of disease after it has
progressed to a certain stage, the vapor bath should be promptly and
STEAM, OR VAPOR, AND PACK BATHS 31
perseveringly applied, besides giving Lobelia to relax the system and
such remedies as Echinacea and Myrrh to overcome the morbidity.
In inflammation of the lungs, liver, stomach, and bowels, or
any other of the internal organs, the vapor bath will be found to
relieve pain, assist the operation of medicine, and shorten the course
of the disease.
In "low fevers," as they are termed by the laity, where the heat
and vitality of the sufferer are far reduced there is a marked benefit
from the use of these baths. A patient too weak to sit up or even
raise his head will bear steaming on a couch or mattress, provided
provided proper attention be given to bathe the face and surface of
the body occasionally with alcohol.
These baths form an important auxiliary in the treatment of
rheumatism, gout, lumbago, palsy, hysteria, chlorosis, neuralgia,
consumption, all fevers, scrofula, etc. Finally, the application of
warmth to the body by means of steam aids the efforts of nature to
overcome every kind of disease that is curable.
The steam bath affords a protection to the system against the
invasion of disease, and when applied in the early stage of many
forms of disease will effectually prevent it becoming settled, by
restoring the lost heat, promoting the secretions, and removing
obstructions.
If the efficacy and safety of the steam bath in midwifery were
generally known, the practice of giving ergot and other agents of like
nature, would eventually be substituted. By means of the vapor bath
and Lobelia, the muscles may be more effectually relaxed than by any
others means and at the same time the secretions are promoted and
nature assisted without the least possible degree of danger to the
patient. For pain in the back and loins during pregnancy, the steam
bath may be used with great benefit.
As a course of medicine has so frequently been mentioned, it is
well to state here what is meant by it and the most satisfactory way
to give it.
First, give Formulas 2 and 3 (see Chapter I), or composition,
adding a teaspoonf ul of Formula 6 ; then steam. When in bed repeat
the medicine, adding Formula 1, which will cleanse the stomach and
assist in keeping up a perspiration. When this has finished operating,
give an injection made with the same articles. Where there are
32 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
symptoms of nervous affection, or spasms, add half a teaspoonful
of the nerve powder in each dose given and in the injection. In
violent cases, where immediate relief must be had, Formulas 1, 2, 3,
and 6 may be given together. Injections may be administered at all
times and in all forms of disease to great advantage ; they can do no
harm, and in many instances they are indispensable, especially where
there is an inflammatory and morbid state of the bowels, and danger
of mortfication. In the last condition, Formula 6 should be added.
Many will consider this heroic treatment. However, it is both
harmless and effective. Other and more simple plans of treatment
will be outlined as we proceed.
The employment of the steam bath is as desirable as a preventive
of sickness as it is in curing it. When a person has been exposed to
the cold and is threatened with sickness, it may be prevented, and a
long illness and expense saved, by steaming until free perspiration
takes place, and at the same time taking the heating medicines such
as Capsicum, pleurisy root, and skullcap.
It is to be noted that if a patient is carried through a course of
medicine and steamed, and he has been long under mercurial treat
ment, then while under the operation of the steam when the heat is
at its highest, the face may swell. To overcome this, add some
vinegar to hot water and soak cloths in this. Wring out dry as
possible and apply to swollen parts as hot as can be borne, and also
permit the patient to inhale the vinegar fumes. As soon as one cloth
cools, apply another hot one, and continue until swelling subsides.
In many instances it may be found inconvenient or even impos
sible to give the vapor or steam baths. In such cases the bath tub
should be half filled with water as warm as the patient can com
fortably bear. Immerse the entire body in the water, and permit the
patient to remain in it for five to thirty minutes, according to the
condition to be overcome. Dry the body well, and give an alcohol rub.
In high temperatures it is the modern practice to use ice caps or
packs. This lowers the resistance of the system and is a shock. Vapor
and steam baths, as well as immersion, will do all that ice packs can
do, and besides it will help to eliminate poisons and congestion and
reinforce the vital forces to help them maintain life until the enemy
disease is overcome. Immersion is indicated whenever the tempera
ture rises above 101° F. When the temperature reaches 102.5° to 103°
STEAM, OR VAPOR, AND PACK BATHS 33
these baths may be given every 5 hours. Care must be exercised to
avoid chills. This is readily done by quickly drying the body after
leaving the warm water and following this by a rub. In cases where
there is extreme weakness, only a part of the body at a time should
be bathed with tepid water, and this followed by a rub. The vital
forces must be reinforced by natural stimulants such as will be
described.
The Pack Bath
In chronic congestions known as tumors and cancers, and in
blood diseases such as syphilis and scrofula, as also in wasting diseases
such as tuberculosis, the pack bath is preferred. This will gradually
draw out all poisons from the system and establish a normal activity
—an equilibrium.
A couch without a back is best for the purpose. Spread five to six
woolen blankets of large size over this. Dip a linen sheet, which is
large enough to cover the body from neck down, feet included, in
cold or cool water. The temperature of the water should depend upon
the strength of the patient, the ailment, the desired result, and the
tolerance to cold applications. Wring the cloth out thoroughly, and
wrap around the entire body. The patient now lies down on the
covered couch, and first a blanket on one side is drawn up closely
over the body, care being taken that the feet are thoroughly wrapped
up and the neck tightly tucked in, then a blanket from the other side,
and this continued until all blankets are wrapped over the patient. In
a few minutes reaction will set in, and the patient will commence to
perspire. Give all the cold water or fruit juices desired, and permit
the patient to remain until perspiration ceases. Remove the blankets
and sheets, give a quick shower or sponge bath, dry off thoroughly,
then complete with an alcohol and witch hazel (equal parts) rub. If
patient is strong enough, exercise should be taken to cause reaction.
If too weak for this, then place in bed and permit him to sleep.
The wet sheet will act as an extra skin and will gradually draw
out all poisons from the system. This improves the circulation of the
blood. As a result the dead cells, acids and other waste materials are
carried off, and new material is carried to the diseased parts for the
construction of new cells and tissues.
34 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
Dr. August Reinhold said, "The toxins that cause practically all
diseases can be eliminated successfully by the wet pack, and any fever
can be controlled by this simple application. The body is hot when
feverish and, therefore, the cool or cold sheet feels refreshing. It is
cooling yet stimulating, and usually the patient falls asleep, and when
he awakes the temperature is reduced, and he feels like a new person.
Why has the fever left? Because the waste or disease producing
materials have been drawn out by the pack, and there is no fuel
(congestion) to burn (set up irritation)."
A pack may be given to any part of the body where there is
congestion. However, in all conditions where the temperature is above
normal the entire body pack should be given. Generally, one pack a
day is sufficient, though it may be repeated if necessary to reduce the
temperature. Packs may be given in practically all cases where the
vapor or steam bath is indicated and is safer and more desirable. As
already indicated, it should form part of the treatment in all cases
of cancer, tumor, syphilis, scrofula, tuberculosis, and like conditions.
DISEASE
"Disease is a condition that prevents full, free, and regular
action. All that is necessary to bring relief and establish order is to
remove obstacles to this action and excite the organs to their proper
motions. Whatever will invariably, promptly, powerfully and per
manently relax, contract, and stimulate will remove all obstructions to
vital action and cure all forms of disease is a true medicine. As
stimulation is nothing more than rapidly alternating relaxation and
contraction (an interchange of activity as in the storage battery),
it follows that the two motions in different ways and degrees of
rapidity, sometimes relaxing, sometimes contracting with greater or
less velocity are all that is necessary."
35
6.
THE INTERNAL BATH
ALSO KNOWN AS INJECTIONS OR CLYSTERS
This manner of administering medicine (or food) is of the
greatest importance in the eradication of disease and the maintaining
of strength and will frequently bring relief when all other methods
fail.
According to the plans which we have formulated and put into
practice for the past fifty years,1 there are certain objects aimed at in
the administration of substances termed medicines for the elimination
of disease: to raise the internal heat and maintain
it,
to promote
perspiration, to remove morbid matter from the surface of the mucous
membrane, to guard against mortification, and restore the powers of
digestion. To best accomplish these objects, the medicines necessary
to remove the complaint must be applied to that part where the
disease
is
located. If in the stomach only, then by taking the medicine
through the mouth the disease may be reached, but
if
in the bowels,
the same combination should be administered by means of the enema.
Whatever
is
good to eliminate disease when taken into the stomach
is
doubly beneficial for the same purpose when given by injection, for
then
it
is
not changed by the process of ordinary digestion —the inter
action on
it
of
alkalies and acids. In all cases the grand object
is
to
ceate
a
natural heat and remove congestions and morbidity.
In all cases of dysentery, colic, piles, and other complaints where
the bowels are badly affected, injections should never be dispensed
with.
It
is
safe to give them in all cases, and far better that they be
given many times, even unnecessarily, than once neglected when
actively indicated. In many violent cases, particularly where there
is
danger of mortification, patients may be treated by administering
medicine in this way, when there would be no chance in any other
1.
This method was one of three; oral medication, direct medication by-
infusion using the Galvanic current, and in the enema, forming the International
System
of
Direct Medication.
36
THE INTERNAL BATH 37
way. We, therefore, most seriously advise that these considerations
be always borne in mind, and that when quick action is desired the
medicated internal bath offers the safest manner.
In many complaints peculiar to women, the internal bath is the
most direct means of giving relief. The remedy should be suited to
the condition.
The best position is the elbow and knee posture. This permits the
easy flow of the medicated water and will reach a greater portion of
the mucous membrane of the bowel than any other method. When
the greatest amount of activity of the medicine is desired, then it is
best first thoroughly to cleanse the bowels by taking a plain internal
bath of Castile soap suds using two or more quarts of warm water.
After passing this off, the medical mixture may be added to an eighth
of a pint of water, injected and retained and absorbed by the mucous
membrane directly into the circulation.
Extreme Morbid Conditions
In all extremely morbid conditions, as when there is the forma
tion or accumulation of pus, danger of gangrene or mortification, then
one-half ounce of tincture of myrrh and 15 to 30 drops of tincture of
Echinacea should be added to the quart of warm (not hot) water
and this injected into the bowels and helds as long as possible to
permit absorption. In the treatment of appendicitis and every other
affliction of the alimentary system where there is acute inflammation
or congestion which may give rise to inflammation and the forma
tion of pus, this is the ideal treatment. When the affliction is less acute,
only the Echinacea need be added to the water. These short (2 to 4
ounces of water) enemas may be given as frequently as every hour
depending on the severity of the case. If this plan is followed, all food
prohibited and only fruit drinks in abundance permitted, then ap
pendicitis will lose its terrors and operations become a rarity except
in emergencies.
Ordinary Diarrhoea
In ordinary diarrhoea, whether of adults or infants, the method
of procedure is very simple. To a quart of moderately cool (not cold)
water, add two tablespoonfuls of tincture of witch hazel and use as
38 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
an enema. Retain as long as possible to permit absorption and cleans
ing of the mucous surface. Repeat every one or two hours according
to the severity of the case. In children use same proportion of witch
hazel with an equal part of water which is to be retained.
If there is a temperature and indication of internal disturbances
other than simply diarrhoea, add 15 drops of tincture of purple cone-
flowers, and in case where there is a show of pus or blood, a tea-
spoonful of tincture of myrrh. Tincture of purple cone-flowers
controls the pus formation and danger of pus poisoning, and the
tincture of myrrh will help to prevent mortification and gangrene.
There is no more potent combination than that of witch hazel, myrrh,
and purple cone-flowers.
Cathartic Action
To evacuate the bowels, no less than a quart of lukewarm water
should be used. Adults may safely take two or even more quarts
especially if a long tube is used. To the quart of water add a table-
spoonful of dark brown (New Orleans if to be had) sugar, and a
very few grains of potassium permanganate, being certain the
potassium is completely dissolved. It is best to first add the potassium
permanganate being careful that the water is never more than a
medium violet in color. The sugar is a relaxant and the potassium
permanganate is a splendid antiseptic.
In the case of children only the sugar should be added, and if
there is colic in conjunction with the constipation weak catnip tea
should be used, to which a small amount of brown sugar has been
added. Use only a 1 or 2 ounce rectal (bulb) syringe to avoid the
danger of inflating the bowels too much. In all cases where evacuation
does not follow within an hour, repeat the enema.
The Enema as a Relaxant
In all conditions where the body is tense and a feverish condition
present, no plan of procedure is of greater service than the warm
enema. In the beginning of colds and fevers, 15 to 30 drops each of
Tinctures of Asclepias (Pleurisy Root) and Eupatorium (Boneset)
and 10 to 30 drops of Tincture Lobelia, depending on the severity of
the case. When prepared for children, it is best to eliminate the
THE INTERNAL BATH 39
Lobelia, or to add only one-third the amount. These enemas may be
given every hour until equilibrium is established, and the patient
rests easily. In convulsions the same formula should be employed,
but the strength of the tinctures increased.
The Enema as a Stimulant
In all depressed conditions such as sudden collapse or shock the
Thomsonian formula may be used or instead, 10 drops of tincture of
Zingiber ginger, 5 drops of Capsicum, and 15 drops of myrrh to
the quart of water. The water should be as hot as can be borne
comfortably by the hand, and the enemas repeated every hour until
reaction takes place; reaction is usually preceded by a thorough
activity of the bowels.
The Enema as a Nervine
In all severe prostrations such as apoplexy, meningitis, lockjaw,
and similar conditions, the enema, to which has been added powerful
but non-poisonous nervines, is of great importance. Among the very
best of these agents is cypripedium. To each quart of warm water,
30 to 60 drops of tincture of lady's slipper should be added, and the
enema repeated every two to three hours. Where the nervous condi
tion is extreme, 15 drops of the tincture may be added to 3 ounces of
water, or even less, and this retained to be absorbed. In appendicitis,
when there is great nervousness or irritability, lady's slipper should
be added to the enema. Other good nervines may be used instead
when it is not procurable.
Antiseptic Enemas
In all conditions where an internal antiseptic is indicated, tincture
of purple cone-flowers is the best. If this is to be reinforced, then
tincture of myrrh may be added. As already mentioned, potassium
permanganate is also a splendid antiseptic but in all but the smallest
amount it is a poison. Plain water should never be employed as an
enema since it is weakening.
Astringent Enemas
In dysentery, cholera morbus, and like complaints, it is desirable
and of great value to administer astringent and tonic enemas. In mild
40 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
cases, tincture of witch hazel is the choice, or if this is not handy, an
infusion of cherry bark will serve as well. When there is danger of,
or an indication of pus, tincture of myrrh must be added. In cases
where blood is present, 15 to 60 drops of tincture of bayberry must
be added. To recapitulate : In ordinary dysentery, tincture of witch
hazel in cool water, or cherry bark infusion should be used. When
pus is present, however, tincture of myrrh with tincture of witch
hazel and even tincture of purple cone-flowers can be used. When
blood is present in the stool, all the above is used with the addition
of tincture of bayberry. All enemas in cool water and repeated every
1, 2, to 3 hours, according to the severity of the case.
When there is extreme soreness in the bowels, then it is best first
to prepare barley water, and to this add the medication. For this
purpose the barley should be boiled, and the water carefully passed
through a cloth to remove all particles that might irritate the sensitive
surface of the bowels.
Nourishing Enemas
In many conditions of the system, and especially in cancer and
ulcers of the stomach, in wasting diseases, in unconsciousness and
when the stomach refuses to accept food, it is of great value to feed
the patient via the rectum. First of all, it is necessary to cleanse the
rectum by giving an enema composed of warm water and Tincture
Echinacea to which also has been added 3 drops of Tincture Capsi
cum. After this has been voided, then barley or oatmeal water with the
white of an egg well beaten and filtered may be injected and retained
to be absorbed. The amount should be no greater than 3 ounces at a
time and this may be repeated every 2j4 hours. Beef broth, malted
milk, milk in which Irish moss has been boiled, or any other nourish
ing food, which can be liquified and filtered, may be given.
In anemic conditions it is of utmost importance to boil vegetables
in water, and then boil down this water to one-third the quantity, and
inject this so that the organic mineral elements may be absorbed and
help establish equilibrium.
Important Note
Practically every disease may be treated and every organic
remedy utilized via the rectum, and in most instances, the response is
THE INTERNAL BATH 41
quicker and more favorable than when medication is orally taken.
This procedure (singly or in combination, in 2 teaspoons, 4 ounces of
water) may be known as direct medication and thoroughly covered
in texts of that title.
7.
THE NATURA SYSTEM
(ORIGINALLY KNOWN AS THE
THOMSONIAN SYSTEM)
The original formulary of medication as taught by Dr. Samuel
Thomson is first given. Followed by the more modern practices of
the eclectic, physiomedical and later Natura physicians. Investigation
clearly indicates that in the more rural districts when it is often
difficult to obtain the services of a physician, or where the people
still have the original faith in nature's remedies, they continue to
follow the original Thomsonian system with some modification,
because the eight formulas can be prepared in advance and are at
hand for immediate use.
First we will discuss Lobelia, the most important agent of the
Thomsonian system and its eight formulas.
Indian Tobacco
Lobelia Inflata
The present newly awakening interest in organic medicines made
from vegetables, herbs, roots and barks, and more especially Indian
tobacco, requires that a more complete description be given than in
the original book based on the teachings of the Thomsonian, eclectic
physiomedical and/or Natura school, in the present edition.
Common Names: Lobelia, emetic herb (Thomson), pike weed,
gagroot, vomitroot.
Parts : Leaves, tops, and seeds.
Preparation: Tincture or infusions.
Dose : Adults : 10 to 60 drops ; children, 3 to 20 drops.
Average Dose: 10 to 30 drops minimum of tincture of 10 per
cent drug strength.
42
THE NATURA SYSTEM 43
Recognized Specific Indications
Angina pectoris, apoplexy, asthma, bronchitis, croup, infantile
convulsions, epilepsy, diphtheria, hemorrhagic diphtheria, dysmen
orrhea, acute heart attacks, heatstroke, hysteria, migraine, ovarian
spasms, intestine spasms, spinal meningitis, tetanus, tonsillitis, whoop
ing cough.
Symptomatic Indications
In short, labored breathing, sense of suffocation; dyspnoea;
precordial oppression; pain in chest of heavy, sore, or oppressive
character ; dry cough, either with scant or over secretions ; asthmatic
seizures; short, lacinating pain radiating from the heart center to
left shoulder and arm; spasmodic muscular contraction; muscular
rigidity ; infantile convulsions due to some form of internal irritation ;
hysterical convulsion ; rigid os uteri accompaned by rigid rim ; perineal
and vaginal rigidity during labor, angina pectoris.
ACTION
The action of Lobelia is upon the central nervous system and the
sympathic nerve ganglia. It is generally classed as a gastro-intestinal
irritant because in sufficiently large doses it produces emesis.1 The
action of small doses is upon the cardiac area slowing heart action
and is followed generally by a more or less accelerated pulse. The
action of small, frequent doses (as indicated) is to stimulate; of
large doses to relax first and then followed by stimulation to the
organic action. Small doses stimulate digestion, the secretions, and
poor circulation, especially when due to enervated states. When
Lobelia is combined with other appropriate remedies, its tendency is
to establish normalcy of the entire system and stimulate all the
organs of the body ; hence it is of great benefit in all chronic or semi-
chronic conditions. In acute ailments, such as acute indigestion, the
onset of diphtheria, croup, scarlet fever, smallpox, tetanus or the
bites of poisonous insects where immediate effect is imperative, doses
large enough to produce emesis should be given, to be followed by
small doses in combination with such stimulants as Capsicum.
1. Our experience with Lobelia does not bear out this conclusion. Improper
use of any drug may produce undesirable symptoms.
44 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
In angina pectoris, neuralgia of the heart, and pulmonary
apoplexy, doses of 20 drops should be given and repeated as necessary.
It is a cardiac stimulant and acts as a sedative. In markedly slow
pulse-wave, Lobelia in small frequent doses is the remedy; it is
indicated in all full, oppressed, or sluggish pulses, especially if asso
ciated with precordial oppression, thoracic pain, difficulty in breathing,
soreness of chest, nausea and coated tongue, and fullness of tissue.
In obstetrical cases, Lobelia relaxes muscular rigidity and readily
overcomes rigis os during parturition, and also relaxes the perineal
tissues protecting the parts against lacerations.
In loss of appetite and slow digestion, this agent is of great
value. It is best given in small doses and may be combined with other
indicated agents. It is decidedly valuable in the atonic types of
indigestion and dyspepsia associated with sick headache due to
gastric disturbances; in such cases it is best given in small frequent
doses. In chronic respiratory disorders it increases or decreases the
secretions according to the dosage. In dry, barking, or hacking
coughs, where mucous rales are heard and there is difficulty in raising
the sputum. Lobelia is most valuable, and is equally serviceable in
chronic coughs if combined with other indicated agents. It is of great
service in the coughs of measles where sluggish circulation is present
and eruptions are slow to appear or fail to fully develop. In scarlet
fever and measles, Lobelia causes determination of the blood to the
skin, promotes tardy eruptions, and helps reestablish natural balance
when dangerous retrocession occurs for some reason. In whooping
cough, where secretions of a stringy character have a strangling effect
on the sufferer, it should be given in small frequent doses. Lobelia is
an invaluable agent in all stages of la grippe and epidemic influenza.
It is a vital stimulant, regulates imperfect circulation, and controls
cough and expectoration.
LOBELIA EXTERNALLY
Lobelia is a valuable ingredient in all forms of poultices where
relaxation is desired. Infusions or alcoholic extracts may be used or
powdered substituted. It well combines with flax-seed or slippery
elm in the relief of insect bites, bruises and sprains and of various
pains. Powdered Lobelia is well combined with lard and applied
warm in acute thoracic diseases or any form of soreness of the chest.
THE NATURA SYSTEM 45
Lobelia in any form may be effectively combined with other agents
and used as a poultice in the pains and inflammation present in
pneumonia, broncho-pneumonia, bronchitis, croup, pleurisy, acute
pharyngitis, tonsillitis, orchitis, ovaritis, arthritis, inflammatory rheu
matism, and for all localized pains in the joint and muscular structures.
Personal Remarks
The number one agent on the Natura physician's armamentarium
is Lobelia. Lobelia is one of Nature's few dual agents in the relief
of human ailments. It is both a relaxant and a stimulant; depending
altogether on how it is prescribed, hence if the Natura physician had
to choose one remedy from all others, it would be Lobelia and he
could practice successfully. So many claims have been made for this
agent, and so many more could be honestly made for
it,
were its
virtues fully understood. Most unfortunately
it
has been called
a
quack remedy, and mosf unjustly, Lobelia has been, and continues
to be—labeled
a
poison.2 If this
is
to indicate that an unlimited
amount may not be prescribed without harmful reactions then such
labelling
is
justified, otherwise not. In an experience of fifty-six years
(at the writing)
I
have prescribed
it
for children and people advanced
in age
;
in amounts of three drops to new born children
;
fifteen drops
every fifteen minutes for hours, or maximum doses of 60 drops, to
older persons with never any but the best results.
I
have given
it
where immediate relaxation was an absolute necessity to be followed
by
a
stimulating effect, and
it
has not failed me. If there were such
a thing as
a
general panacea,
I
would say that Lobelia comes nearer
to being such than any other agent
I
have used in all of these many
years.
The Experience with Indian Tobacco of Practicing Physicians
of Renown —
Ellingwood, of Chicago, internationally recognized as an author
ity, gives Indian tobacco
a
foremost place in the treatment of many
cases of disease such as angina pectoris, anuria, apoplexy, asthma,
2.
The pharmacy law of Pennsylvania requires that any drug that may
be considered deleterious to normal health in doses of
1
fluid dram or 60 grains
by weight must be labeled "poison."
Merck's Index, Seventh Edition, does not cite Lobelia either as a quack
remedy or
a
poison, simply as an expectorant or an emetic in large doses.
46 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
bronchitis, pneumonia, croup, infantile convulsions, diphtheria, hemor
rhagic diphtheria, dysmenorrhea, epilepsy, acute heart failure, heat
stroke, hysteria, migraine, rigid os, ovarian pains, spasms in the
intestines, spinal meningitis, tetanus, tonsillitis, tuberculosis, whoop
ing cough.
Not long ago because of misconceptions relative to Indian tobacco,
its value and proper use, many physicians would not have had the
courage to use it as much as the most ethical physicians do today. The
following item, which appeared in the public press, will be of interest
to Natura and all liberal physicians.
"Heart Action Had Stopped When Surgeon Injected Fluid."
Baltimore, Md., July 22, 1925. —A new-born baby, given
up for dead, now lives, and is thriving as a result of an
injection of lobelin solution.
Dr. Walter Cox, of the Franklin Square Hospital,
injected the drug, the operation being described as in
volving great risk.
Lobelin is derived from Lobelia inflata, a form of a
large common blue flower which, for a century, has
been known as a heart stimulant.
"We could not start the baby's breathing," Dr. Cox
said. "Finally, we concluded it was dead. There seemed
to be no way to revive life. Its heart had stopped beating.
"Since I was convinced the baby was dead there was
nothing to fear in using the drug. I plunged the hypo
dermic into the baby and almost immediately it started
to breathe, and heart action was restored. This marks
the opening of a new avenue in obstetrics."
There is nothing new in this. Dr. Samuel Thomson used Lobelia
—in the infusion form —for the same purpose (restoration of sus
pended animation) almost from the very beginning of his practice,
and was wholesomely condemned for using such a "deadly poison."
Eclectic and physio-medical physicians have used Lobelia consistently
in powder, tincture, and hypodermic form and without a single
recorded fatality.
THE NATURA SYSTEM 47
Tablets: 1 to 60 grains. In chronic conditions, 1 to 5 grains
together with 1 or 2 grains of Capsicum is the approved dosage. In
acute cases, 15 to 60 grains may be safely given and repeated in 30
to 60 minutes. The larger doses should not be given except in an
emergency when the aid of a physician is not to be had.
Tincture: Specifics only should be prescribed. The dosage is
the same as for the tablet.
Hypodermically : To be used only by physicians, and seldom in
other than acute cases.
To disabuse the mind of the laity as to the danger of Lobelia we
cite the following cases :
"A girl, thirteen years old, took a violent chill and soon
became unconscious. Instead of resorting to the usual
remedies I gave her 30 minims of Lobelia and wrapped
her in a hot blanket. In half an hour she regained con
sciousness. An hour later she was again unconscious. I
then gave her 60 minims Lobelia. In half an hour she
began to show much warmth and commenced to sweat
profusely. She recovered promptly. I have used Lobelia
perhaps a hundred times in congested chills, and when
it seemed that the patient was at death's door. Results
have been uniform."—A. W. B., M.D.
"In a case of scarlet fever, with complications, Lobelia
proved of the greatest benefit. General dropsy appeared ;
breathing was difficult, pulse almost imperceptible.
Little hope for recovery. I gave a hypodermic of 30
minims of Lobelia. In forty minutes, 40 drops more.
In one hour another 30 drops, after which I could see
some change for the better. In the afternoon she was
was much better ; she was warm, pulsation at the wrist
weak, but plainly found. There was great improvement
in breathing. Next morning the patient was much better
and resting. Convalescence was slow but continuous
and in the end complete." —E. H., M.D.3
3. The Gleaner, September, 1925.
48 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
When emesis (vomiting) is sought, 15 to 30 grains or as many as
50 grains, Lobelia in tablet form, or that many drops of the tincture,
should be given in water of the body temperature. If vomiting does
not follow within a very short time, give half a cup of water of the
same temperature every 5 minutes until emesis does occur, then
follow immediately with 3 to 5 grains of Capsicum every half hour
until three doses have been taken, and then the remedy indicated by
the condition.
According to Drs. Thomson, Scudder, Lyle, Greer, Stephens and
modern Natura physicians:
Lobelia is indicated when the pulse is full and oppressed, or small
and feeble, oppression in the precordium, labored action of the heart,
cardiac (heart) pain, oppression of the chest with difficult and labored
respiration and the accumulation of mucous in the bronchial tubes.
Lobelia is a specific in most cases of angina pectoris and neuralgia
of the heart. It is the indicated remedy when the patient complains
of oppression in the chest and difficult breathing. It is the remedy
in laryngitis in both children and adults. It is directly indicated in
all conditions where there is a morbid congestion of the mucous mem
branes. Lobelia is one of the most direct and valuable stimulants to
the sympathetic nervous system, and it favorably influences every
organ and function supplied or controlled by these nerves.
Where there is lack of vitality to combat the invasion of disease,
Lobelia is always indicated.
Lobelia is dual in its activity. In small doses it stimulates. In
large doses it relaxes and must be followed by a stimulant such as
Capsicum.
In all conditions of congestion, wherever they may be, Lobelia,
due to its influence on the blood vessels, lessens the depression through
the vaso-motor, and strengthens the muscular action of the vessel
walls which propel the blood onward, overcoming the condition.
For spasms in children, Lobelia is the ideal remedy. It will give
quick relief, after which the cause must be sought and relieved by the
indicated remedies.
In whooping-cough, false heart spasms, spasmodic coughs, and
many forms of asthma, it is the ideal remedial agent.
THE NATURA SYSTEM 49
Lobelia is a powerful anti-spasmodic acting on the nerve and
respiratory centers, thereby improving oxygenation of the blood.
In the convulsions of childhood, as in all other forms of convul
sion, it should be the first remedy given.
In pnuemonia and all other conditions of the congestion of the
lungs when breathing is difficult and painful, the pulse rapid, and the
expression of the countenance drawn, Lobelia is the first remedy to
be given to induce relaxation and equalize the circulation of the blood,
thereby removing the congestions.
On the contrary, when the circulation is feeble, the extremities
cold, face pallid, and there is oppression, it is equally efficient with
the aid of Capsicum to restore normalcy.
In all cases of zymotic (inner filth) diseases such as scarlet fever,
chickenpox, measles, and smallpox it is of supreme importance. First,
a large dose to cleanse the stomach of poisonous matter, then in con
junction with other remedies cleanse the entire system of congestions
and establish equilibrium.
Lobelia acts directly upon the regulating centers of the system
(thus its influence to establish equilibrium), those of heart, circu
lation, nervous system and digestive organs. It supports the heart,
overcomes excessive blood pressure in any portion of the body, and
restores interaction between the functions of the various organs.
Lobelia is a restorative to the nerve force at the several centers,
acts directly upon the heart and the lungs, restores the resisting
potency of every center to the invasion of disease, and establishes
harmony between the nervous and circulatory systems.
When the heart is weak, Lobelia is a restorative, and following
its use the pulse becomes strong and natural.
In the dreaded diphtheria, Lobelia hypodermically given is of
greater potency, and in every sense far more valuable, not to mention
being more natural, than almost any other agent.
In all bronchial difficulties, whether asthma, croup, or pneumonia,
Lobelia should be given in a relaxant dose —sufficient to cause free
vomiting and thus cleanse the stomach and then be given as part of
the aftertreatment.
In epilepsy and all other contractive ailments, Lobelia should be
given first in doses large enough to cleanse the stomach and relax
50 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
the system, and then be followed by corrective treatment. Spasms,
whether of the chest, spine, muscles, or sex organs should be treated
in the same manner.
In many forms of digestive disturbances, Lobelia is an ideal
remedy. This is especially true in nervous dyspepsia where there is
a feeling more of nausea than of pain, an oppressive feeling, like a
dead weight, after eating. Also, in those conditions where there is a
feeling of coldness, or a faintness at the pit of the stomach. In such
conditions, a few grains of Lobelia and an equal amount of Capsicum
(tablet form) may be taken directly after eating. In acute indigestion,
a condition which has killed countless people and where the verdict
has nearly always been "heart failure," Lobelia given in a dose suffi
ciently large to promptly empty the stomach will hardly, if ever,
fail. It is the one agent that one may safely rely upon. It should always
be followed by a stimulant and nervine.
Lobelia is essential in labor. It will allay and regulate the violent
pains in the loins during labor due to rigidity of the passages, and is
far safer and much to be preferred to ergot or other agents generally
employed.
In disorders of the menstrual period, it
is,
with the addition of
such agents as pennyroyal, the ideal agent to relieve contraction and
pain and establish normalcy.
In hysteria, whether due to congested ovaries, swollen uterus, or
other cause Lobelia with nervines may be safely relied upon to bring
relief.
Important
:
Whether Lobelia
is
given in the powdered, tinctural,
or tablet form (most desirable when given alone),
it
is
always to be
remembered that the full dose should be given at once. If emesis
does not occur promptly, follow with slightly warm water every
5
minutes until there
is
free vomiting. This plan
is
followed in all
cases where emptying of the stomach and relaxation
is
desired, as in
spasms, congestions, fits, and infectious diseases. As soon as the
vomiting ceases, stimulants and nervines must be given.
When stimulation
is
desired, then the dose
is
always small, from
one to five grains in conjunction with
a
stimulant such as Capsicum.
These instructions follow closely the original. The various herbal
agents are fully described in the chapter on family and household
remedies.
THE NATURA SYSTEM 51
Formula One, The Emetic—Lobelia
1. The powdered leaves and pods. This is the most common
form of using it; and from one-half to a teaspoon may be taken in
warm water, sweetened ; or the same quantity may be added to either
of the other numbers when taken to cleanse the stomach, overpower
a cold, and promote a free perspiration.
2. A tincture made from the green herb. This is used to counter
act the effects of poison (taken either internally or applied externally)
and for asthma and other complaints of the lungs. For a dose, add a
grain or two of Capsicum in a half teacup of warm water, sweetened,
and in all cases of nerve affection add one-half teaspoon of nerve
powder. For the external effects of poison, take the above dose with
the tincture, and bathe the parts affected, repeating until relieved.
3. The seeds reduced to a fine powder and mixed with Formulas
2 and 6, is for the most violent attacks of spasms and other complaints,
such as lockjaw, bite of dog with hydrophobia, fits, and in all cases
of suspended animation where the vital spark is nearly extinct. For a
dose, give a teaspoonful, and repeat till relief is obtained ; then follow
with a tea made of No. 3 for canker.
For children, the dose must be regulated according to their age.
If very young, steep a quarter of a teaspoonful of the powder in half
a teacupful of warm water, or in a tea made with raspberry leaves,
and give a teaspoonful of the tea at a time. First strain through a
cloth, and sweeten, repeat the dose every 15 minutes until it operates.
Give pennyroyal or other herb tea, for a drink.
4. Tablets may be substituted for the herb. Ten to 15 grains
in one-half cup of warm water every 15 minutes until the stomach
has l>een completely relieved of all its contents.
Lobelia will do quickly all that the stomach pump can do and
do it as efficiently and with better results.
Formula Two— Cayenne Pepper (Capsicum)
Nature's stimulant without any reaction, Cayenne pepper is the
most pronounced natural stimulant in the entire materia medica. It
cannot be equalled by any other known agent where a powerful and
prolonged stimulant is called for as in congestive chills, heart failure,
and other conditions calling for quick action. The entire circulation
52 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
is affected by this agent, and there is no reaction. In this it stands
alone as ideal.
In congested, ulcerated, or infectious sore throat it is an excel
lent agent, but should be combined with myrrh to relieve and remove
the morbidity.
Cayenne pepper is antiseptic, and therefore a most valuable agent
as a gargle in ordinary sore throat or diphtheria.
In uterine hemorrhages it is ideal combined with bayberry and
will do more than any other remedy could.
Cayenne pepper has the power to arouse the action of the secreting
organs and always follows the use of Indian tobacco.
When there is inactivity of the entire system, as in "spring fever,"
Cayenne pepper is indicated. In fact, whenever there is disinclina
tion to activity it is an ideal stimulant, arousing the sluggish organism
to action.
In indigestion where gas is present, it should be given in con
junction with small doses (1 to 5 grains) of Indian tobacco. Cayenne
pepper increases the glandular activity of both stomach and intestines.
In all so-called "low" fevers where the temperature is subnormal,
Cayenne pepper is indicated and should be prescribed consistently.
At the onset of a cold, when there are chills, cold, and clammy
feelings, the feet damp and cold, Cayenne pepper should be taken in
full dose (5 to 10 grains). In these cases Cayenne pepper is more
efficient than quinine and there is no reaction —no undesirable after
effect.
Even in cholera morbus and atonic diarrhoea where stimulants
are usually contraindicated, Cayenne pepper is valuable in that it
"tones" up the organs and establishes natural activity.
In all diseases prostrating in their nature, whether pneumonia,
pleurisy, or typhoid fever, Cayenne pepper is invaluable in the pre
scription as the toning agent which helps the system to throw off the
disease and reestablish equilibrium.
In all acute conditions where Cayenne pepper is indicated, the
call is for the maximum dose —from 3 to 10 grains, preferably in
tablet form —followed by a large drink of hot water. In chronic and
sluggish conditions, the small dose frequently given is 1 to 3 grains
with either hot or cold water.
Cayenne pepper plasters are valuable in pneumonia, pleurisy, and
THE NATURA SYSTEM 53
other acute congestions. Combine with Indian tobacco and bran or
hops. One hour is the maximum time to keep them applied.
Formula Three —The Canker Remedy
Combine Bayberry root bark, white pond lily root, and the
inner bark of hemlock equal parts, and pound them well, mix thor
oughly; steep 1 ounce of the powder in a pint of boiling water and
give a common wineglassful (2 to 4 tablespoons) sweetened for a dose.
Note : It is desirable to have this preparation always on hand and
ready for use. To do this, take 1 ounce of the powder, add to a quart
of water and boil until it is reduced to 1 pint. Strain, sweeten with
honey, and add 3 ounces of grain alcohol. This will keep indefinitely.
When needed, add one-half wineglass to a cup of hot water.
If the ingredients suggested cannot be had, substitute sumach
bark, leaves or berries, red raspberry or witch hazel leaves, marsh
rosemary, or either of the other articles mentioned before. This may
be prepared in the same manner.
When the violence of the disease requires a course of medicine
add 5 grains of Formula Two, 15 grains of Formula One, and an
equal amount of Formula Eight. This dose is to be given three times
at intervals of 15 minutes, and the same combination in a quart of
warm water, as the internal bath. This course of medicine may be
repeated if found necessary. If mortification is known to exist, sus
pected or feared, a teaspoonful of Formula Six, may be added to
the combination for internal bath.
After the patient has recovered sufficiently from the operation
of the medicine, which is usually in 2 or 3 hours, give the steam
or pack bath. This is heroic treatment and indicated in severe illness,
and when the aid of a physician is not to be secured. It is in no sense
a dangerous procedure and in many instances will save life.
This operation is sufficient for one time and must be repeated
each day, or every other day, as the circumstances of the case require
until the disorder is removed. Three times will generally be sufficient,
and sometimes once or twice will answer the purpose, but in severe
cases it may be necessary to continue to carry the sufferer through
a regular course two or three times a week, for a considerable length
of time.
54 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
After the patient has been taken through a course of the medicine,
great care must be taken to keep up an internal heat, so as to pro
duce perspiration by giving occasionally Formula Two or the com
position powder.
During the period of treatment give milk porridge or gruel,
well-seasoned with cayenne pepper. In cases where the liver is at
fault, clam broth should be the only food given during the entire
course of the treatment.
A teacup of the tea of Formula Two, should be given night and
morning to prevent a relapse and during the day a tea made of poplar
bark. If constipation exists, a tea of bitter root.
As soon as the disorder is under control, give bitters, Formula
Four, to correct the bile and restore the digestion ; and half a wine
glass of the syrup of Formula Five, two or three times a day which
will strengthen the stomach and assist in regulating the digestive
organism and its functions.
These instructions are to be followed only in the more violent
attacks of disease and such as have become settled. Among these are
apoplexy, severe cases of asthma, bronchitis, pneumonia, croup,
and convulsions which require heroic treatment. Diphtheria, ovarian
and uterine cramps, spasms, meningitis and tetanus, and in tubercu
losis where all other treatment has failed.
Formula Four —Bitters
Bitter herb, or balmony, barberry and poplar bark equal parts,
pulverized, 1 ounce of the mixed powder added to a pint of boiling
water, and steep for one-half hour. Filter, and add one-half pint of
grain alcohol. Dose: a tablespoon in hot water every few hours.
Where stimulation is necessary, 3 grains of cayenne pepper is to be
added to each dose as taken.
These bitters will help correct the bile and restore a natural
appetite by improving the digestion. It may be freely used as a
preventative of disease and a restorative after illness.
Formula Five—Syrup
Poplar bark and the root of bayberry, 1 pound each. Ground or
powder, and boil slowly in a gallon of water for one-half hour ; strain
THE NATURA SYSTEM 55
and add 4 pounds of sugar or 5 pounds of honey. Bring to a boil and
skim. Add one-half pound of either ground peach stone meats or
cherry stone meats. When cool, add 1 quart of good brandy and bottle
for future use. Dosage : one-half a wineglass, two or three times a day.
A smaller amount may be prepared by observing the same proportions.
This syrup is of exceptional value to strengthen the action of
stomach and bowels, and to restore vitality during and after an ill
ness. By using this syrup in combination with Formula Three in the
first stage of dysentery, it will generally bring quick relief.
Formula Six—Special Drops
Formula Six is made by combining one-half gallon of good
brandy, or one gallon of first class wine, one-half pound of powdered
gum myrrh, 1 ounce of Formula Two, all heated in a stone jug to
140° drained and bottled.
These drops are prescribed and of great benefit where pain is
present in morbid conditions which might result in mortification. One
or 2 teaspoons of the drops may be given alone, or the same
quantity added to the dose of any of the medicines previously men
tioned. They may also be used to bathe external swellings or morbid
sores. It has proven an excellent remedy in rheumatism when taken
internally and applied externally; and depended on as a household
remedy for bruises, sprains, swollen joints, and old sores, as well as
to allay inflammation, reduce swellings, ease pain, and create a
tendency to healing old sores. In the application of Formula Six for
sprains and bruises, it is well to add gum camphor.
In modern practice, the Natura and liberal physician substitutes
tincture of coneflower, 5 to 30 drops is the ideal and dependable
remedy in all acute septic infections. In septicemia (blood poisoning),
in the bites of poisonous snakes and insects, in gangrenous conditions
and malignant ulceration, in peritonitis and morbid conditions of the
bowels, such as are present in typhoid fever, cholera morbus, and
cholera infantum, it is the one remedy that does not disappoint.
Tincture of myrrh: For external applications in cold sores,
gangrene, and all forms of poisoning and morbidity, myrrh is the
indicated remedy and may be applied freely without dilution. Dose
3 to 5 drops also may be added to purple coneflowers for internal use.
56 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
Formula Seven—Composition Powder
Two pounds of bayberry root bark, 1 pound of the inner bark
of hemlock, 1 pound of ginger, 2 ounces of Cayenne pepper, 2 ounces
of cloves, all pounded fine and sifted through a fine sieve and well
mixed together. For a dose, a teaspoon of the powder in one-half
teacup of boiling water; permitted to stand until sufficiently cool,
strained, then 1 tablespoon of honey added, patient put to bed or in
a pack bath, and the remedy given.
This remedy is ideal in the first stages of diseases such as colds,
chills, and fevers. It is a remedy of great value, and may be given
safely in all complaints of men, women and children, and it will pre
vent, at the onset, the greater part of acute diseases.
It is excellent to relax (in dysentery), pain in the stomach and
bowels and to remove obstructions caused by cold or loss of inward
heat and vitality. By taking a dose on retiring and applying a hot
water bottle or electric pad to the feet, it will ward off or cure a cold ;
and repeated several times quickly, will cut short an attack of
pleurisy and other lung affections. When the symptoms are violent,
with much pain, add to each dose a teaspoon of Formula Six, and
5 grains of Formula One. In nervous symptoms add one-half tea
spoon of the nerve powder, and in giving an internal bath do likewise.
In very severe attacks, and where the services of a good physician
cannot be had, a regular course of medicine should be given.
Formula Eight—Nerve Powder
American valerian or lady's slipper. This is sometimes called
umbil, or male and female nervines.
There are four species of this valuable vegetable, one male and
three females. The male is called yellow umbil, and grows in swamps
and wet lands. It has a large cluster of fibrous roots matted together
joined to a solid root, which puts forth several stalks that grow about
2 feet high ; it has leaves resembling the poke leaf. The female vari
eties are distinguished by the color of the blossoms, which are red,
red and white, and white. The red has but two leaves which grow
out of the ground, and lean over to the right and left, between which
a single stalk shoots up to a height of from 8 to 10 inches bearing on
its top a red blossom of a very singular form that gives it the name
THE NATURA SYSTEM 57
of female umbil. This kind is found on high ledges and swamps. The
red and white and white umbils grow only in swamps, and is in larger
clusters of roots than the yellow, but in a similar form; its top is
similar to the red, except the color of the blossom. The yellow and
red are the best for medicine; the roots should be dug in the fall
when done growing, or in the spring, before the tops put forth. If
dug when growing, the roots will nearly all dry up. When the roots are
dug, they must be washed clean, carefully dried, and then ground
into a powder, sifted through a fine sieve and preserved from the
air for future use.
This powder is composed of the best of known nervines. It will
produce the most beneficial effects in all cases of nervous affections,
as also in hysterical symptoms. It is perfectly harmless and may
be used in all cases of disease with safety; and is much better than
the dangerous and habit forming narcotics which number their victims
by the millions. This powder has a tendency to promote sleep and is
highly soothing, but this is due to its potency to quiet the nerves and
to create a state of ease, permitting sleep during which naure may tone
up the system and heal the afflictions. One-half a teaspoon may be
given in hot water and the dose repeated as often as necessary. The
same quantity may be mixed with doses of any of the other numbers
and also used in the internal bath. In general practice the tinctures
should be substituted.
NATURAL MAN
Under the natural plan or—if you wish —the Divine plan, man
continues strong, well, and virile by supplying his body with the
elements and only such which it requires to maintain a balance—an
equilibrium (health being equilibrium). All these elements are obtain
able from the organic (organized) kingdoms, principally the vege
tables (this term includes all herbs). As indicated by biblical author
ity, what have been known as herbs are actually vegetables—foods
that supply the body with required elements to maintain a balance.
Fruits, nuts, cereals, and even eggs, milk, and cheese come under
this classification. The latter —milk, cheese, and eggs —are merely
/>r£-digested and highly organized (vitalized) vegetables, fruits, and
cereals, having been consumed and converted by an animal organism.
58
8.
THE NATURA PHYSICIAN'S ARMAMENTARIUM
The agents and prescriptions, the effectiveness of which have
been thoroughly tested by Thomsonian, Eclectic, Physio-Medical, and
during the last 50 years, by Natura Physicians.
Both the minimum and maximum dosage of the single agent
and each agent in the prescription is given. It is generally best, except
in emergencies, that the physician start with the minimum dose. In
all instances, dosage should be graduated according to age and
symptoms.
BARBERRY, COMMON
Berberis Aquifolium Vulgaris
Common names : Oregon Grape, Mountain Grape.
Barberry is a common herb because its red berries have been used
by housewives in preserving certain foods. Its bark, the only part
used in medicine, is intensely bitter and has been known as one
of the "old woman's" medicines because of its general use in infusion
as a stomach and liver agent.
Because it is so intensely bitter, the dosage should be small,
though there have been no reports of harmful results following its
almost universal use as a stomach bitters.
The natura physician uses it chiefly in the relief of torpid con
ditions of the liver and in very small doses for the spleen. It is
indicated in all placid conditions of the stomach, but should be used
only in chronic condition. Country people, not having easy access
to physicians, gathered the herb, added a portion, usually not meas
ured, but generally about 2 ounces to a quart of good whiskey,
permitted it to steep for 3 or 4 days, then took a tablespoon of it before
meals. This we find, on investigation, is still continued in many
families.
59
60 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
In jaundice, accompanied by loss of strength and poor appetite,
it is valuable. It is likewise of good service in malarial diseases
(where Quinine cannot be had or is counter indicated) when com
bined with such remedies as Capsicum, Lobelia and Hydrastis, these
agents modifying its more drastic influence. A small proportion may
be added with benefit to all preparations for stomach and liver con
ditions.
In the early stages of tuberculosis it is of much value if combined
with:
Tincture of Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) 7 to 10 drops
Tincture of Barberry (Berberis vulgaris) 3 to 7 drops
Tincture of Cayenne Pepper (Capsicum frutescens) or
(Capsicum minimum) 2 to 4 drops
Dosage : According to condition and age.
This same combination is excellent in catarrhal conditions of the
upper passages leading to the lungs, and as a tonic in weak and debili
tated conditions of the system, and in convalescence following serious
illness.
Dosage of the tincture Berberis alone, 3 to 4 times a day in water.
BAYBERRY
Myrica Cerifera
Common names : Myrtle, Wax Myrtle, Candle Berry, Waxberry.
In foulness of the mucous membranes, it is by some considered
even superior to Myrrh. It is more pleasant to take and not as harsh
in its action ; useful and indicated where Myrrh might be considered
as too active.
In scrofulous diarrhoea, chronic cholera and goitre, Myrica is
one of the best agents.
Its influence on the uterus is very positive, and for this reason
it is the one dependable remedy in uterine hemorrhages, whether due
to abortion, miscarriage, or any other cause. Fifteen to 60 drops every
15 to 60 minutes, depending on the severity of the condition, is the
dose. The uterus also may be packed with cotton saturated with this
tincture.
THE NATURA PHYSICIAN'S ARMAMENTARIUM 61
In prolapsus uteri it is splendid, and in parturition it cannot well
be excelled. It induces better contractions, and when given near the
end of the confinement it will anticipate flooding, and should there
be excessive lochia it will assist in stopping the excess. Its in
fluence is also good in controlling the flow during menstruation
and hemorrhages from other parts of the body and is a valuable agent
in the treatment of female complaints.
In hot infusions or tincture in hot water, it gradually arouses
the circulation and favors an outward flow of blood ; a free perspira
tion, so desirable in many high temperatures will generally follow,
and this will be even more abundant, if Zingaber is added :
Tincture of Bayberry (Myrica cerifera) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Ginger (Zingiber officinale) 8 to IS drops
In water three times a day.
When the stomach is very foul in conjunction with Lobelia, it
will be useful as an emetic, which is very desirable in all cases where
this condition is present; as well as in conditions frequently present
in mercurial cachexia, acrofula, and secondary syphilis:
Tincture of Bayberry (Myrica cerifera) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Indian Tobacco (Lobelia inftata) 3 to 10 drops
In hot water every 15 minutes until emesis.
Dosage of tincture of Myrica alone 10 to 30 drops in water as
indicated.
"Myrica is both a general and special stimulant to the mucous
membranes. It is one of the few astringents which does not provoke
a rise in temperature. Increased flow of mucous, whether in broncho-
pulmonic disease, sore throat, or disease of the stomach or bowels
calls for its action. It aids digestion, nutrition, and blood-making,
and is useful in chronic gastritis, muco-enteritis, chronic catarrhal
diarrhoea, atonic leucorrhoea, and dysentery with typhoid symptoms.
It is a useful stimulant in typhoid and other low fevers, and is indi
cated particularly in the sore throat of scarlet fever, when the tissues
are feeble and swollen. It is indicated in feeble circulation, useful in
in sore throat, sore mouth, sore and bleeding gums when spongy and
flabby."— Dr. Wilmeth— Lloyd.
62 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
BEABBERRY
Arctostaphylos Uva-Ursi
Common names: Upland Cranberry, Arberry.
Best known as the diabetes remedy. Uva Ursi is especially
astringent and tonic depending upon these qualities for the most of its
good effects. It is particularly useful in chronic diarrhoea, dysentery,
profuse menstruation, piles, diabetes, and other similar complaints.
It possesses rare curative principles when administered for diseases
of the urinary organs, more especially in chronic affections of the
kidneys, mucous discharges from the bladder, inflammation of this
organ, and all derangements of the urinary passages. It is also a
valuable assistant in the cure of gonorrhoea of long standing, gleet,
whites (fluor albus), ulceration of the cervix uteri, pain in the vesical
region. Many physicians rely upon Uva Ursi as the basis of their
treatment for gonorrhoea, when accompanied by mucous discharges,
and for kindred afflictions. Its tannic and gallic acid give it great
power in rectifying and extirpating the obstinate and disagreeable
complaints mentioned.
Uva Ursi is best combined with Populus:
Tincture of Upland Cranberry (Arctostaphylos Uva-Ursi 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Quaking Aspen (Populus tremuloides) 2 to IS drops
Dosage: Three or more times a day either in hot or cold water
depending on desired effects.
Dosage: Tincture of Uva Ursi alone, 10 to 20 drops in water
3 or 4 times a day.
When given in the treatment of diabetes, Vaccinum Myrtillus
should be combined with it:
Tincture of Upland Cranberry (Arctostaphylos Uva-Ursi) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Blueberry leaves (Vaccinum myrtillus) 20 to 40 drops
In water 3 or more times a day.
In domestic use the procedure was to cover the leaves of either
or both with 3 times the amount of the Bearberry leaves with good
brandy, permit to infuse for a week, then add a teaspoonful to a cup
of the infusion.
THE NATURA PHYSICIAN'S ARMAMENTARIUM 63
BEARSFOOT, AMERICAN
Polymnia Uvedalia
Common names: Leaf Cup, Balsamic resin.
Called the mammitis remedy. There are not too many natural
agents indicated in this condition, Uvedalia, therefore, should be in
the medicine case of every Natura physician.
It is an alternative and stimulant. The liver, spleen, and stomach
are greatly influenced by this agent.
The important influence of Uvedalia is in the treatment of non-
malignant, indurated swellings, such as mammitis and enlarged (en
gorged) cervical nodules.
Dosage: Tincture of Uvedalia alone, 10 to 25 drops, three or
more times a day. Dosage and frequency depend on condition for
which it is prescribed.
BITTER ROOT
Apocynum Androsaemifolium
Common name: Bitter Root.
Often called the gall-stone remedy.
The root is extremely bitter and is considered one of the best
correctors of the bile ; equal, if not of greater value than bile usually
given for this purpose. It is of much value in correcting costiveness
producing, as it generally does, natural bowel movement. Given in
large doses, it will act as a cathartic or as an emetic often desirable
in jaundice. It is a splendid substitute for Lobelia as an emetic for
those who are still under the impression that Lobelia is a poison.
In jaundice, gall-stones, and chronic sluggish conditions of the
liver, Bitter Root is unexcelled, but should not be employed if the
stomach is in an irritated condition. Bitter Root is best when com
bined with other less harsh agents:
Tincture of Bitter Root (Apocynum Androsaemifolium) 5 to 10 drops
Tincture of Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) 7 to 10 drops
Tincture of Fringe Tree (Chiolanthus virginica) 3 to 7 drops
In water between meals.
64 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
Dosage: Tincture Apocynum alone—5 to 10 drops in water
before meals.
In small doses, Bitter Root is a laxative. As a tonic, 2 to 10
drops of the tincture before meals will stimulate the digestive
organism. Bitter Root is an alterative in rheumatism, but is best
combined with other agents for that purpose.
For emesis, 10 to 30 drops repeated every 30 minutes as neces
sary with plenty of water between doses.
Not as valuable as Lobelia Inflata for emesis.
BITTERSWEET
Solanum dulcamara
Common names: Woody Nightshade, Felonwort, Fever Twig,
Violet Bloom, Scarlet Berry.
Generally known as the glandular, lymphatics medicine.
Bittersweet belongs in the old family domestic medicine chest,
but is as effective today as it was when used only in infusion (when
properly used), in glandular diseases and is especially soothing in
irritable conditions. It is generally given in the form of syrup made
with infusions, but is more certain when the tincture is used in
conjunction with Queen's Root and various other alternatives. It
has been found to be highly beneficial in the treatment of eczema,
scrofula, and syphilis:
Tincture of Bittersweet (Solanum dulcamara) 10 to 15 drops
Tincture of Queen's Root (Stillingia sylvatico) 10 to 20 drops
In water 3 to 4 times a day.
Solanum is a mild narcotic and, for extreme nervousness and in
somnia due to febrile conditions, it is best combined with Passiflora:
Tincture of Bittersweet (Solanum dulcamara) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Passion Flower (Possiflora incarnata) IS to 30 drops
In water between meals and on retiring.
Bittersweet ointment is soothing and healing to irritable skin
affections, piles, burns, scalds, and ulcers. Ointment is made by
boiling 1 pound of the green crushed bark in 1 pound of lard or vase
THE NATURA PHYSICIAN'S ARMAMENTARIUM 65
line. The home folks desire lard instead of vaseline, believing lard
to be more effective.
1
Dosage : Tincture Solatium alone, 10 to 20 drops in water 3 or 4
times a day.
Specifically: Solanum is a glandular, lymphatic agent and of
much service in skin and blood diseases.
The infusion, long a household or domestic medicine, is made
by boiling a tablespoonful of the cut or powdered root in a pint of
water for a few minutes and let steep one-half hour, 2 tablespoons
4 times a day.
BLACK COHOSH
Cimicifuga racemosa
Common names : Black Snakeroot, Rattlesnake Root, and Squaw
Root. It must not be confused with Squaw Vine, though like Squaw
Vine, it was an Indian remedy.
Black Cohosh is a relaxing nervine and expectorant. It acts
directly on the spinal nerve, and because of this action has been
much used with success in the treatment of St. Vitus dance and
spinal meningitis. So potent is the action of Cimicifuga that too
large doses of it may produce a dizzy feeling in the head, though it is
in no sense poisonous.
The Indian women depended almost wholly on it to relieve pain
during the menstrual period, and its use for this purpose has con
tinued even among the general medical profession who still follow
a natura system of practice.
Cimicifuga is slightly narcotic ; a sedative and an antispasmodic.
Due to its potency in relieving pain, Cimicifuga is frequently
combined with other agents for sciatica and rheumatism.
Dosage of the tincture of Cimicifuga alone, 10 to 20 drops when
and as indicated.
Cimicifuga is specifically a woman's remedy. Indicated in ovarian
neuralgia, rheumatic dysmenorrhea, and convulsions as a result of
nervous excitement, feeling of heavy weight in the sacral and lumbar
66 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
region, and hysterical spasms before or during menstrual period,
melancholia and deep feeling of depression; dull aching headache.
Best given in conjunction with Pulsatilla. SMALL frequent doses.
BLACK WILLOW
Salix nigra
Common names: Pussy Willow, Calkins Willow.
The woman's remedy:
Salix is an astringent and antiseptic and of much value in
inflamed, ulcerated surfaces, hence indicated as a douche in viginitis,
leucorrhea, and proctitis, for which either the infusion or tincture in
warm water may be used.
Salix is a sedative in eroticism due to genito-urinary irritations
such as prostatis, urethritis, and clitoric adhesions.
In domestic medicine it was and is used as a remedy for rheuma
toid disorders and in inflamed joints, muscles, and nerves.
Dosage of tincture Salix Nigra alone, 10 to 20 drops according
to symptoms.
Black Willow may be used as an infusion, but the tincture or
fluid extracts are more certain in their action.
BLUEBERRY
Vaccinium Myrtillus
Other names: Bilberry, Whortle Berry, Burren Myrtle,
Huckleberry.
Although Blueberry and NOT Huckleberry leaves have been a
folk remedy in many parts of the world (from Pennsylvania to the
Austrian Alps) in the treatment of the control of diabetes, the
medical profession generally did not admit that it contained any
ingredient or active principle of value in diabetes.
It was not until an Austrian physician, Dr. R. U. Wagner came
to America, and in association with Dr. Frederick M. Allen at the
Psychiatric Institution of Morristown, New Jersey, reported in
Collier's, March 17, 1928, and engaged in serious experimentation
THE NATURA PHYSICIAN'S ARMAMENTARIUM 67
and research and discovered an active principle with a "remarkable
potency to reduce excess sugar in the blood" which they named
Mythillin.
These physicians found that, though this acted slowly, it was
wholly harmless even in excessive amounts, generally efficient, though
it could not replace insulin in chronic cases.
The results of these experiments, and cases treated with good
results according to the National Weekly were reported before
the American Medical Association and in the Journal of the American
Medical Association.
While the leaves of Huckleberry may be used, the Blueberry
leaves are to be preferred by far. An infusion —always freshly made
—by the infusion of a teaspoon of the leaves in a cup of boiling
water, for one-half an hour and taken two to three times a day.
Many, so afflicted, combine Strawberry leaves and Thyme
(Thymus Vulgaris) with Myrtillus, one teaspoonful of each in 8
ounces of boiling water, dividing into three portions, one portion
each forenoon, afternoon, and evening.
Dosage of tincture Myrtillus alone, 15 to 40 drops in water 3 or
more times a day. The infusion is to be preferred in domestic use.
BLUE FLAG
Iris versicolor
Common names : Flag Lily, Liver Lily, Water Flag, Snake Lily.
Called the lymphatic and thyroid gland remedy. It is indicated
in most non-malignant enlargements.
Natural agents for this purpose are few—among them more
especially iodine and foods containing
it,
kelp and thyroid. This
is
a
valuable and welcome addition.
It
is
also clearly indicated in hepatic conditions, when due to the
ingestions of congesting foods causing constipation and indigestion,
headache, and dizziness.
It
is
one
of
the very few remedies that has any influence in
correcting milk-colored, clay-colored stools in adults.
Dosage of tincture alone, 10 to 25 drops in water,
3
times
a
day.
68 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
BONESET
Eupatorium perfoliatum
Common names: Thorough wort, Indian Sage, Ague Weed.
Eupatorium is largely of the nature of Asclepias, but is harsher
and more powerful in its action. It should be used in place, or in
conjunction with, Asclepias to combat miasmatic and malarial influ
ences. It is especially indicated in fevers, where there is aching of
the bones.
The cold infusion or tincture is a tonic and aperient. The warm
infusion is diaphoretic and when given in too large an amount is
emetic, for which Lobelia is superior.
As a tonic it is useful in remittent, intermittent and typhoid
fevers, dyspepsia, and general debility. In intermittent fever a strong
infusion, as hot as can be comfortably swallowed, or the tincture in
hot water, is to be administered for the purpose of emesis, if Lobelia
is not procurable.
During the intermission, the cold infusion, or tincture, in cold
water is given every hour as a tonic and antiperiodic. In epidemic
influences (la grippe) the warm infusion is of much value as an
emetic and diaphoretic, likewise in febrile diseases such as catarrh,
colds, and like attacks.
For influenza or the grippe, give:
Tincture of Boneset (Eupatorium perfoliatum) 15 to 30 drops
Tincture of Pleurisy Root (Asclepias tuberosa) 20 to 40 drops
Tincture of Skullcap (Scutellaria Lateriflora) 12 to IS drops
In hot water every 1, 2, or 3 hours. It is well to immediately
cleanse the stomach by emetics at the onset of the disease, and then
give only sufficient of the above to control the chills, and produce a
cleansing perspiration. Where chills are extreme, Capsicum, in 2-, 4-,
or 5-grain doses may be given with this preparation. Hardly a case
need be lost by death, and there are no aftereffects of the disease.
Tincture of Cinchona, Peruvian Bark: 10 to 30 drops may be
added to this formula in severe cases, where there is much pain.
Infusions of Eupatorium, given hot and in fairly large doses,
is an active agent, producing copious diaphoresis, and in the treat
ment of catarrhal colds and acute malarial fevers, is productive of
THE NATURA PHYSICIAN'S ARMAMENTARIUM 69
much good. It has always been a domestic remedy, formerly familiar
to mothers in districts where medical aid was not easily obtainable.
It is part of the Natura physician's armamentarium.
Dosage tincture of Eupatorium alone, 15 to 40 drops as indicated
by age and condition.
Infusion : One teaspoon of the powdered herb ; steep in a cup of
boiling water for half an hour. One teaspoon every 3 hours. More
or less frequently, and either in hot or cold water, according to
condition.
Eupatorium may be combined with the various agents as in
dicated by Asclepias.
Eupatorium is invaluable in the treatment of every type of
illness, where there is a temperature and aching of the bones.
Specifically: intermittent fever, "la grippe," especially where
there is soreness of the bones and muscles, catarrhal, and bilious
fever accompanied by thirst for cold water causing vomiting and
lack of perspiration. In coryza with sneezing, a long used, valuable
agent. Combines well with Geranium Maculatum, Cranesbill.
BUCHU
Barosma betulina
Common name: Bookoo.
Best known as a gravel and chronic prostatis remedy.
Barosma is an aromatic and a stimulant, a diuretic, and a
diaphoretic. It is frequently prescribed in chronic inflammation of
the bladder, irritation of the membrane of the urethra, uric-acid
gravel, diabetes in its first stages, and incontinence of the urine. It is
of benefit in chronic prostatis.
Dose of the tincture, 10 to 60 drops.
It is best when combined with the more active remedies indicated
in the conditions mentioned.
Buchu, because of its mild action, was formerly a much used
household remedy in the form of infusion: one teaspoonful of the
herb to the cup of boiling water, steep half an hour. Drink when
cold. Two cups a day, or more often when indicated.
Dosage of tincture of Barosma 10 to 20 drops in water, 3 times
a day.
70 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
BURDOCK
Arctium Lappa—Lappa Major
Common names: Clot-bur, Bardana, Lappa.
The root and seed of Lappa Articum is a soothing demulcent
tonic alternative. It slowly, but steadily, influences the skin, soothes
the kidneys, and relieves the lymphatics. It is of great value in the
treatment of all skin diseases and in scrofulous affections. It is
soothing to the mucous membrane throughout the entire system, hence
is valuable in irritated conditions. Its soothing character is also ex
tended to the serous membrane and is valuable in rheumatism
especially if combined with more stimulating agents like Hydrastis
and Barosma Crenata:
Tincture of Burdock Root (Arctium Lappa) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) 8 to 12 drops
Tincture of Buchu (Barosma betulina) 10 to 15 drops
In water, 3 to 4 times a day.
The infusion or tincture in hot water influences the sebaceous
glands and is of importance in scarlatina, other exanthema, and also
in typhoid fever. In all these conditions it should be combined with
coneflower.
Tincture of Burdock Root (Arctium Lappa) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Coneflower (Echinacea Angustifolia) 20 to 40 drops
In warm water as frequently as indicated by the symptoms.
Moisture of the skin must be controlled by the addition of tincture
of scullcap 2 to 5 drops.
When this formula is used in the treatment of typhoid fever,
tincture of wild indigo, 2 to 5 drops.
In domestic practice, an infusion is made with 1 teaspoon of
the powdered root to a cup of boiling water, steep one half hour,
strain. One to 2 cups a day.
Dosage of the tincture of Burdock alone, 10 to 25 drops in
water, 3 to 4 times a day.
CACTUS
Cereus grandiflorus
Common name: Night-blooming Cereus.
General indications: Cardiac disorders of an inorganic nature.
THE NATURA PHYSICIAN'S ARMAMENTARIUM 71
Feeling of constriction of the heart as from iron bands. Feeling of
heart weakness. Heart action rapid, short, irregular with possible
great difficulty in breathing, or chronic slow action.
The dominant effect of Cactus is that of an antispasmodic upon the
heart in a chronic condition. It is indicated in angina, or pseudo-
anginal conditions, cardiac spasms, spasmodic asthma, and wherever
the heart muscles are concerned. It cannot substitute for digitalis or
glonoin in acute heart attacks.
Dosage: Two to 10 drops, 3 or 4 times a day. It is best com
bined with Crataegus oxyacantha.
Specifically: Cactus Grandiflora is indicated by a frequent feel
ing of constrictions of the heart where there is no organic condition.
Short, rapid, irregular heart beat. Acute pain or "stitches" in the
heart. Difficulty in breathing. It is a dependable non-toxic heart
remedy.
CHAMOMILE, COMMON
Anthemis nobilis
Common names: Chamomilla; German, Chamomile; Camomile.
In general use Chamomile has maintained a well-earned reputa
tion for unknown number of years, and its usefulness is as fully
recognized by the Natura physicians as it has been in family use.
In action it is a soothing nervine and a mild stomach tonic to be
given where there is weakness and poor appetite and the tendency to
melancholy.
In some respects it has been called a "children's remedy," of
much use in light fevers, restlessness in children, and to make
certain that in such ailments as measles and other children's illnesses,
the usual rash is not retarded. In all such ailments the infusion is of
greatest service. A tablespoon of the herb in a half pint of hot water
and steeped for half an hour. Dosage : One teaspoon every half hour
for results. For this purpose the common garden variety, therefore
called an "old woman's" remedy, is most desirable, though both the
Roman and German varieties are good.
When given in the warm infusion, a teaspoon to part of a cup
of warm water, Chamomile will promote perspiration, so desirable
in most cases of fevers, and may be given in connection with almost
72 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
every other herbal medication. In women, it helps promote the
menstrual flow, though the tincture in hot water will serve the same
purpose. The cold infusion is a tonic and suitable in stomach diffi
culties in conjunction with other agents. It serves well as a drink
during convalescence from febrile diseases. Before the advent of
fruit juices, it was the standard liquid drink in practically all diseases
where a temperature was present. It serves just as well now.
In extreme nervous conditions, where the stomach is at fault,
best results are obtained by making use of the formula :
Tincture of Chamomile (Anthemis nobilis) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Valerian 10 to 20 drops
In water every three hours or as indicated according to age and
symptoms. Always best given in warm liquids.
In doses of from 5 to 10 drops of the tincture, it relieves the
nervous irritation and false pains of the later months of gestation.
Equal part of Squaw Vine may be combined with it. It is also of
great value in cases of nervous dyspepsia and sick headache during
the menstrual period and is well adapted as a mild antispasmodic to
neurotic women. Motherwort combines well with it.
Anthemis may be classed as a stimulant, tonic, and antispasmodic.
It is especially useful as a child's remedy, being of much service in
flatulent colic so frequently met with in small infants.
"Atony of the entire system is another reason for employing
this agent, its action being more pronounced in cases of atony or
debility of any parts of the digestive apparatus.
"Wrongs of the menstrual functions, caused by debility, are
frequently righted by the use of this medication. Atony is the key
to its specific action." Dr. Gowes —Lloyd.
Anthemis, in combination with hops, made into a poultice will
relieve sprains, bruises, and swellings and also help to restore
shrunken sinews. Lobelia combines well with it:
Tincture of Chamomile (Anthemis nobilis) 15 to 30 drops
Tincture of Indian Tobacco (Lobelia inflata) 3 to 9 drops
Tincture of Hops (Humulus Lupulus) 20 to 40 drops
Apply warm, change every few hours.
Specifically: Matricaria has long been a household or domestic
remedy for many uses and is a dependable agent. It is a nervine,
THE NATURA PHYSICIAN'S ARMAMENTARIUM 73
stimulant and dipthoretic, hence its manifold indications. It is of
much value in functional disorders in both children and women.
During dentition it reduces nervousness, irritability, and emotional
manifestations, as well as restlessness and sleeplessness. It is equally
valuable in flatulence and colic during this period. In the beginning
of colds, in combination with Asclepias, Pleurisy Root, it is of utmost
value. In these conditions, it is best given as an infusion.
It has long been used by women during premenstrual and
menstrual periods to relieve dysmenorrhic spasms, and promotes the
menses when due to exposure to colds, uterine spasms or nervous
tension.
Matricaria is indicated and dependable in neurotic and emotional
manifestations, muscular twitchings, general uneasiness, and sleep
lessness. In all of these manifestations, it may be taken in infusion or
tincture and combines well for other agents for the same purposes.
Externally, it frequently relieves or eliminates eczema when ap
plied in an infusion, alone or combined with Calendula, Marigold. It is
indispensable in the Armamentarium of the Natura physician.
Dosage of tincture Anthemis alone, 10 to 20 drops in water, 3 to
4 times a day.
OLIVERS
Galium aparine
Common names: Cleaverswort, Bed Straw, Catchweed, Goose-
grass, Cleavers.
A diaphoretic in fevers where a free outward circulation should
be quickly established. It is a highly valuable refrigerant and diuretic,
and beneficial in suppression of the urine, calculous affections, in
flammation of the kidneys and bladder, and in the scalding of urine
in gonorrhoea.
During certain stages of scarlet fever and like infections where
there is a tendency to irritable conditions of the kidneys, Clivers will
prove highly beneficial as a tea or tincture in which other more active
agents may be given. For children and adults who suffer from
scalding urine, it is the remedy. In the inflammatory stages of
gonorrhoea, it will relieve the irritation and sooth the nervous
system.
74 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
Indicated in all conditions where the mucous membrane in any
part of the system, is in an irritated condition:
Tincture of Clivers (Galium aparine) 20 to 30 drops
Tincture of Buchu (Barosma betulina) 10 to 12 drops
In water 3 or 4 times a day.
Dosage: Tincture of Clivers alone, 20 to 30 drops in water as
indicated.
CONEFLOWER
Echinacea angustifolia
Common names : Wild Niggerhead ; Purple Cone Flower ; Black
Sampson ; Kansas Niggerhead ; Brauneria pallida ; Rudbeckia pallida.
Thomsonian, Physio-Medical and Nature physicians have always
maintained that Echinacea is a herbal, natural antitoxin. Orthodox
physicians have not generally been willing to accept it as such, though
many do. It is a controversial agent.
"Echinacea is a corrector of the deprivations of the body fluids,"
was Dr. Niederkorn's opinion, and this, whether the morbific changes
of the fluids of the body are internal, or caused by external introduc
tions. Its use is indicated in septic infections, septicemia in its various
forms, blood poisoning, adynamic fevers, typhoid fever, cellular
abscesses, salpingitis, carbuncles, cancerous cachexia, and in fevers or
conditions where there is a bluish discoloration of the mucous mem
branes, tongue brownish or almost black, or when discharges are
foul —in fact, in any or all conditions which point to sepsis.
Discriminating physicians of all schools have found it invaluable
in infections, both internal and external, strumous conditions (where
an alternative is indicated), peritonitis, acute fevers, syphilitic con
ditions, puerperal infection, infections with tendency to abscess, bites
and stings of poisonous insects and reptiles, typhoid infections, blood
perversions, toxemia with and without fever, septicemia, erysipelas,
acute infections, gangrenous conditions, diptheria, or wherever there
is a formation of pus suppurations as in tonsilitis, infected sores, and
wounds.
THE NATURA PHYSICIAN'S ARMAMENTARIUM 75
CORN SILK
Stigmata Maydis
Common name : Indian Corn—the silk.
Stigmata Maidis possesses great virtue in irritated conditions of
the urinary organs and is believed to be the only known remedy
capable of cleansing the kidneys from the dangerous deposits of brick
dust in the urine and removing the condition which is the cause of it.
Frequently referred to as the brick dust remover.
"Stigmata Maidis is indicated in cystic irritation, due to phos-
phatic and uric acid concretions. In these cases the urine is usually
scant and of a strong odor. The remedy not only relieves the bladder
and urethral irritation, but tends also to prevent the formation of
gravel and calculi. It is an important and favorite remedy in the
treatment of urinal disorders of the aged, especially where the urine
is strong and scant, and shows a heavy sediment. Stigmata should
always be thought of in inflammatory conditions of the urethra,
bladder, and kidneys, where it is evident that the inflammatory
trouble is due to the presence of urinary concretions." —Dr. Neider-
korn —Lloyd.
Where there is a tendency to the formation of gravel, or where
it is known to exist, give :
Tincture of Corn Silk (Stigmata Maydis) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Couch-Grass (Triticum repens) 5 to IS drops
In water as required. Dose of Stigmata Maidis alone, 10 to
60 drops.
As a domestic remedy, a syrup is made of 4 ounces of Corn
Silk, and one-half pound of Dandelion root. Steep in quart of boiling
water half an hour, then add 2 ounces Goldenseal. Dose, 1 teaspoonful
in half cup of water, every 3 or 4 hours or as needed for relief.
For bedwetting :
Tincture of Corn Silk (Stigmata maydis) 15 to 30 drops
Tincture of Agrimony (Agrimonia Eupatoria) 10 to 30 drops
In water between meals and bedtime.
Dosage: Tincture of Stigmata Maidis 15 to 30 drops in water,
3 or 4 times a day.
Stigmata Maidis is indicated in practically all formulae for
urinary disorders.
76 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
COUCH-GRASS
Triticum or Agropyron repens
Common names : Quick-Grass, Dog-Grass, Durfa Grass.
Called the kidney, bladder and gravel remedy. One of the old
domestic remedies.
Medically, Triticum is classed as a mild, stimulating demulcent
acting chiefly upon the kidneys, bladder, and urethra, and is especially
valuable in gravel, many experienced physicians claiming that its
timely use has dissolved small calculi. It is indicated by catarrhal and
purulent discharges from the urethra, in purulent cystitis, incipient
nephritis, stangury, enlarged prostate (when due to chronic
gonorrhoea), gout, jaundice, and rheumatism. In incontinence of the
urine with intense burning sensation and constant desire to urinate,
it is splendid in its results. Dose 5 to 30 drops. To help calculi to
pass, the maximum dose of 40 to 60 drops in hot water should be
given.
In chronic gonorrhoea :
Tincture of Couch-Grass (Triticum repent) 5 to 20 drops
Tincture of Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) 7 to 10 drops
Tincture of Sandalwood (Santolum album) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Buchu (Barosma betulina) 10 to 20 drops
Dosage: In water three or more times a day.
For enlarged prostate (non-operative) :
Tincture of Couch-Grass (Triticum repens) 5 to IS drops
Tincture of Fringe Tree (Chiolanthus virginica) 3 to 7 drops
Tincture of Saw Palmetto (Sarenoa serrulata) 5 to 20 drops
In water, three or four times a day.
In rheumatism complicated with prostatic involvement:
Tincture of Couch-Grass (Triticum repens) 5 to 20 drops
Tincture of Motherwort (Leonurus cardiaca) 9 to IS drops
Tincture of Scurvy Grass (Cochlearia officinalis) 7 to 15 drops
Tincture of Black Cohosh (Cimicifuga racemosa) 1 to IS drops
In water, three or four times a day. Black Cohosh should be
used with caution.
Dosage : Tincture of Couch-Grass alone, 10 to 20 drops in water,
2 or more times a day.
THE NATURA PHYSICIAN'S ARMAMENTARIUM 77
Specifically: One of the most important symptoms for the pre
scribing of Triticum is a burning sensation and constant desire to
urinate.
CBOWFOOT
Geranium Maculatum
Common names: Dove's-Foot, Crowfoot, Wild Alum Root,
Spotted Geranium, Wild Geranium, Cranesbill.
Caution. It is not to be confused with Ranunculus Bulbosus, also
of the Crowfoot family and undesirable as a medical agent.
The root is a pleasant, positive tonic astringent. It is only
moderately drying, but is persistent and effective—one of the most
potent and excellent astringent agents. Its chief influence is upon the
alvine mucous membranes. It is applicable in the treatment of a sore
mouth or gums, mercurial salivation, spongy gums, catarrhal
ophthalmia, leukorrhoea, gleet, dystentery, and diarrhea.
It is a splendid and dependable local and constitutional styptic
for hemorrhages from the nose, lungs, stomach, bowels, or uterus, and
for this purpose is best combined with Bayberry:
Tincture of Cranesbill (Geranium Maculatum) 10 to 30 drops
Tincture of Bayberry (Myrica Cerifera) 13 to 30 drops
Tincture of Myrrh (Commiphora myrrha) 2 to 4 drops
In typhoid fever where there is excessive discharge, whether
fecal or canious, this agent is one of the most valuable. In this con
dition it should be combined :
Tincture of Cranesbill (Geranium Maculatum) 10 to 30 drops
Tincture of Coneflower (Echinacea angustifolia) 10 to 30 drops
In water according to symptoms, or it may be combined with:
Tincture of Cranesbill (Geranium Maculatum) 10 to 30 drops
Tincture of Wild Indigo (Baptisia tinctoria) 2 to IS drops
Dosage : In water every 3 or 4 hours.
In emergencies, where the tinctures cannot be had, 2 teaspoons
of Cranesbill, Geranium and one teaspoon of Baptisia, wild indigo,
ground roots may be steeped in a cup of hot water for 30 minutes;
then give 1 teaspoon of the infusion every 2 or 3 hours.
78 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
There are few agents which possess a wider range of usefulness
than Geranium Maculatum, and which are so devoid of harmful
properties. In all forms of hemorrhage, whether internal or external,
hemoptysis usually can be arrested promptly by 30 to 50 doses of
the tincture, given hourly until controlled. Relapse may be prevented
by continuing the same dose at longer intervals for three or four days.
In hemorrhage from the kidneys and the intestinal canal, better results
will be obtained by the administration of smaller doses, 20 drops
four times a day, for an extended period. This is the only practical way
of using it in chronic cases. Epistaxis may be checked speedily by
plugging the nostrils with cotton dipped in a solution composed of
one part each of the tincture of Geranium and Bayberry combined
with vaginal injections of the same combination.
In hemorrhage of the stomach, 30 to 50 drops will often relieve
when all other agents have failed.
Where there is pain and distress from gastric ulcers, Geranium will
relieve, and in many instances cure the trouble. In cases of pulmonary
hemorrhages, it is the remedy in doses of 40 to 50 drops of the
tincture ; after its action has been established, it may be given in doses
of 10 to 15 drops, three or four times a day to guard against the
hemorrhages returning.
In consumption it will modify the night-sweats and cough, and
control the diarrhea that is so annoying and always weakening to the
patient.
In the treatment of chronic bronchitis by its action in condensing
the relaxed bronchial membrane, we check the cough and profuse
expectoration, and thereby strengthen the patient.
"In the weakened stomach of hard drinkers we find an admirable
place for Geranium. In such cases, Capsicum, 3 drops, should be
added to each dose. Chronic gonorrhoea and gleet are cured by the
local injection of a 10 to 25 per cent solution. It is valuable in the
treatment of sore mouth, either mercurial or from other cause. Use
diluted as a wash and give internally. In the treatment of leukorrhoea
where there is a relaxed and atonic condition, make a tampon of
surgical wool, and after saturating with the full-strength extract,
push well up against the uterus. In uterine catarrh and relaxed
conditions it is a splendid remedy. In prolapsus of the bowels, wet
the protruding parts with the strong non-alcoholic fluid and inject
THE NATURA PHYSICIAN'S ARMAMENTARIUM 79
25 per cent solution into the bowels three or four times a week.
The same treatment will cure many cases of recent hemorrhoids.
It is excellent for nasal polypi by injecting them with the tincture.
The polypoid growth will degenerate and drop out after a time—
Drs. Comfort and Lyle.
In all hemorrhages, whether from nose, throat, lungs, kidneys,
bowels, or uterine:
Tincture of Cranesbill (Geranium Maculatum) 10 to 30 drops
Tincture of Bayberry (Myrica cerifera) IS to 30 drops
In water every hour or 2 as indicated by symptoms.
Dosage of the tincture Geranium alone, 10 to 30 drops in water
every hour or two, indicated by age and condition.
Specifically: "Geranium is a powerful non-irritating astringent,
to the relief of conditions exhibiting relaxed, atonic, and enfeebled
tissues with copious, debilitating discharges. It is of value in chronic
diarrhea with mucus discharges, chronic dysentery, menorrhagia,
diarrhea of subacute character with constant desire to evacuate the
bowels. Passive forms of hemorrhage often are controlled by it as it
exerts a good influence in hemantinuria and is of considerable value
in catarrhal gastritis. Should be employed during the active stages of
inflammation." Dr. King—Lloyd.
DOGWOOD, AMERICAN
Cornus Florida
Common names : Boxwood, Flowering Cornet, Green Ozier.
Cornus contains an active principle Cornine, a splendid substitute
for Cinchona, Peruvian Bark or Quinine, and used for the same pur
pose. It is free from the effects of Quinine when continued for too
long a period —after chills are controlled.
Dosage : Tincture Cornus alone, 20 to 40 drops in water according
to symptoms.
It is an old family remedy used in place of Cinchona or Quinine
and is made into an infusion: One teaspoonful steeped in a cup of
boiling water for half an hour ; one-half cup three times a day, or as
required.
80 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
DOGWOOD, JAMAICA
Piscidia erythrina
The Natura physician's agent as a substitute for narcotics,
generally prescribed in nervous, neurotic conditions. Piscidia becomes
toxic in overdoses.
Piscidia' s place in natural medication is to counteract nervousness
and insomnia due to some form of hysterian and nervous tension.
It is of value in facial and sciatic neuralgia.
It gives excellent service in dysmenorrhea when accompanied
with cramps, nervousness, and sleeplessness, but is most effective
when combined with Black Haw:
Tincture of Jamaica Dogwood (Piscidia erythrina) 1 to 20 drops
Tincture of Black Haw (Viburnum opulus) 5 to 15 drops
In hot water as frequently as necessary.
ELECAMPANE
Inula Helenium
Common names: Elf Dock, Scabwort, Velvet Dock.
Generally known as the anti -tuberculin remedy, although there
is no proof that it is of much benefit in the treatment of the disorders
which indicate the onset of consumption, it may not actually deserve
the name of an anti-tuberculin agent, despite the fact that there was
much faith in it as a household remedy.
It is a compound agent; an expectorant, an excellent tonic, and
cough remedy, a stomachic, and a diuretic.
Elecampane is important in the treatment of general catarrhal
conditions, controls mucous discharges, and as a tonic it encourages
metabolism ; hence its value in incipient tuberculosis.
Best given in fluid extract, 20 to 40 drops, three or more times
a day.
EVENING PRIMROSE
Oenothera biennis
Common name: Tree primrose.
This is not to be confused with Butter Rose (Primula veris).
THE NATURA PHYSICIAN'S ARMAMENTARIUM 81
This agent is indicated in neurotic —mental depression —condi
tions resulting in the development of alimentary toxins due to a long
continued faulty diet creating toxic waste which causes depression of
the solar plexus —the nerve center.
Evening Primrose stimulates digestion by vitalizing the stomach
and has a direct influence on the liver and spleen. It should be
combined with other agents for the purpose of eliminating the toxic
waste. According to symptoms, bile salts should generally be pre
scribed in conjunction with it.
Dosage of tincture of Evening Primrose alone, 5 to 40 drops
according to symptoms.
An authority, Dr. Unruh, speaking of Echinacea, states:
"The drug is found to produce direct stimulation of the katabolic
processes, increase in the flow of saliva, sweat, and urine, and increase
in glandular activity. It thus antagonizes all septic processes, facili
tates the elimination of toxins from the organism, and lastly, it has a
destructive effect upon the streptococci, staphylococci, and other
pyogenic organisms."
This has always been, and still
is,
the opinion of the modern
Natura physician based on experience.
There
is
no morbid condition in which Echinacea
is
not indicated,
and its greatest benefit has been manifest in typhoid fever.
When there
is
extreme morbidity, Myrrh should be combined
with
it
:
Tincture of Myrrh (Commiphora myrrha)
2
to
S
drops
Tincture of Coneflower (Echinacea angustifolio) IS to 30 drops
Every
1
to
3
hours, according to the condition. When Echinacea
is
applied externally to neutralize morbid conditions or insect bites,
Myrrh, equal parts, should always be combined with it.
Dosage of tincture Echinacea alone, 15 to 30 drops in water
every
1
to
3
hours as indicated. The action of Echinacea,
is
like
antitoxin in various types of blood poisoning, infections of different
nature, and causes in the most morbid conditions.
Specifically: Echinacea
is
the Natura physician's antitoxin.
82 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
FEVERFEW
Chrysanthemum Parthenium
Common names: Featherfew, Febrifuge Plant, Batchelor's
Buttons.
In hot infusions or the tincture in hot water, it is a diaphoretic
and relieves the head, brain, and nerves from pressure and excitement.
In pleuritis, it relieves the hyperemia present, and reduces the in
flammatory excitement. During parturition by equalizing the circu
lation, the pains become more regular, the contractions firmer, and
the rigid os uteri relieved of its tensity. In cases where the menses
are suppressed due to cold, it quickly relieves the hyperemia present,
and the flow assumes its normal condition.
The influence of Feverfew upon the circulation tends toward
the surface, and with proper hepatics it assists in relieving the circu
lation of impurities, especially in uremia and cholemia. It is a
superior tonic to the stomach relieving hyperemic conditions of the
mucous membrane and is serviceable in colic, flatulence, eructions,
and general indigestion.
In bronchitis and pneumonia, it dispels hyperemia and tones the
mucous membranes when combined with Asclepias:
Tincture of Pleurisy Root (Asclepias tuberose) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Feverfew (Chrysanthemum Parthenium) 10 to 20 drops
In puerperal fever, it is an important agent when combined with
Echinacea :
Tincture of Feverfew (Chrysanthemum Parthenium) 10 to 30 drops
Tincture of Coneflower (Echinacea angustifolia) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Cayenne Pepper (Capsicum frutescens)
{Capsicum minimum) 2 to 3 drops
Every 2 to 3 hours depending on symptoms.
Dosage of the tincture Chrysanthemum alone, 10 to 30 drops in
water every 2 or 3 hours, as indicated by condition.
In nervous unstrung conditions as a result of toxic effects of too
great indulgence in alcoholic beverages, 15 to 40 drops of the tincture,
as often as required, usually give good results.
In domestic use, a teaspoon of the herb is steeped in a cup of
boiling water half an hour, 1 or 2 cups a day in tablespoon doses.
THE NATURA PHYSICIAN'S ARMAMENTARIUM 83
In hot compresses Feverfew may be applied with benefit over
the lungs, stomach or abdomen in either congestions or inflammation.
Specifically : Chrysanthemum is a dependable tonic, carminative,
and stimulant. It is diffusive, mildly stimulating, and a relaxing agent.
It influences the skin, nervous system, the circulation, and the genito
urinary organism.
FRINGE TREE
Chionanthus virginica
Common name : Poison ash, sometimes called Old Man's Beard.
"Chionanthus exerts a special influence upon the liver, and to a
slight extent upon all the organs engaged in digestion and blood-
making. The indication for its exhibition are : yellowness of the skin
and eyes ; slight or fully-developed jaundice with a sense of uneasiness
and general pain simulating colic. It is one of the most certain
remedies employed, whether the case is one of jaundice, formation
and passage of gallstone, bilious colic (indicated by yellowness of
skin), acute dyspepsia, acute or chronic inflammation of the liver,
or the irritable liver of the hard drinker.
"Chionanthus is also indicated by a dirty, sallow skin, with
expressionless eyes and hepatic tenderness ; the passage of light gray
ish stools and scant urine which stains the clothing yellow. The
liver-pain of Chionanthus may range from a slight uneasiness with a
feeling of weight and fullness to an intense pain converging from the
gall-bladder to the umbilicus and attended with nausea, vomiting,
and marked prostration." Dr. Fetter—Lloyd.
The dosage of the tincture is from 5 to 10 drops in water.
Whenever there is jaundice or other affliction during pregnancy
which indicates that the liver is not functioning normally, Chionanthus
in 5 to 10 drops in water before meals is indicated.
In malignant tumors of the stomach or bowels and in uterine
tumors, a combination of:
Tincture of Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) 7 to 10 drops
Tincture of Fringe Tree (Chiolanthus virginica) 3 to 7 drops
Dose 10 to 20 drops in water before meals and at bedtime has
proven effective.
84 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
This same formula is indicated in most chronic conditions of the
liver where symptoms indicate the spleen may be affected.
In bilious colic it is best first to cleanse the stomach by giving
an emetic dose of Lobelia and when this is accomplished, follow with :
Tincture of Fringe Tree (Chiolanthus virginica) 4 to 7 drops
Tincture of Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) 7 to 10 drops
It has been generally believed that the medical properties of
Chionanthus cannot be extracted by infusions, though it has long
been used as a family medicine by steeping the cut bark and root in
hot water for half an hour and this divided throughout the day.
The powdered root and bark has been widely used in the treat
ment of wounds and irritations that do not readily yield to usual
treatment. May be combined with other healing agents.
The Physio-Medical and Natura physicians in general practice
would not think of treating liver and spleen conditions without this
agent.
Dosage: Tincture Chionanthus alone, 7 to 10 drops in water
according to indication.
Specifically: Chionanthus Virginica is the spleen remedy. It is
indicated in congestions of the liver, especially where constipation
is present, and the possibility of formation of gall-stones, jaundice,
and conditions arising as a result of splenic inaction. Best when com
bined with Hydrastis, goldenseal.
GENTIAN, YELLOW
Genitiana lutea
Common names : Gentian Lutea.
The tincture generally used in medical practice is prepared from
the imported herb. It is mild, but a decidedly bitter tonic.
Its chief action is upon the liver and stomach. For sluggishness
of the liver with general dyspepsia, it is of great value. For ague it
will often prove effective when other agents fail, but should be com
bined with Capsicum and Lobelia:
Tincture of Gentian (Georgians lutea) 3 to 10 drops
Tincture of Indian Tobacco (Lobelia infiato) 3 to 10 drops
Tincture of Cayenne Pepper (Capsicum frutescens)
(Capsicum minimum) 1 to 3 drops
THE NATURA PHYSICIAN'S ARMAMENTARIUM 85
This should be repeated every hour. For chills give only in
hot water.
"Gentian is one of the most popular of the simple (non-poison
ous) bitter tonics, and as such finds its best field in atonic states of the
gastro-intestinal tract with feeble or slow digestion. It improves the
appetite, increases digestion, augments the circulation, and tends to
raise the heat of the body. In small doses it is valuable to relieve irri
tation, and improve the appetite and the digestion after protracted
fevers when vitality is low. An indication for gentian is: Depressed
feeling in the pit of the stomach and a sense of physical and mental
weariness." —Dr. Scudder—Lloyd.
Tincture of Yellow Gentian (Gentiana lutea) 3 to 10 drops
Tincture of Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) 8 to 12 drops
Tincture of Indian Tobacco (Lobelia inflata) 3 to 8 drops
In water 3 times a day, before meals.
There is an American Gentian, blue flowered and very common
in many states, more especially in Pennsylvania. This is also one of
those "old woman's" agents and frequently used in stomach condi
tions. Like many remedies common among the people, it is gathered
when in bloom. Place approximately 2 ounces of the crushed flower
tops and sometimes the roots also into a bottle with a pint of brandy
or grain alcohol, allow to stand for a week shaking frequently, and
it is ready for use. The dosage is from 1 teaspoonful to 1 tablespoon-
ful in water, taken either before or after meals, and more frequently
in acute conditions. The amount made usually depends on the size
of the family and the number of those more or less afflicted with
digestive disturbances.
Dosage of tincture Genttana alone, 4 to 10 drops in water before
meals.
GUM PLANT
Grindelia comporum
Grindelia cuneifolia
Grindelia squarrosa
Common name : Grindelia.
The ivy poison (rhus) and oak poisoning remedy. In nearly
86 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
60 years of practicing we have found no agent more effective in this,
sometimes horrible affliction, than Grindelia.
Grindelia is equally indicated when applied to indolent ulcers,
impetigo, eczema, and allergic dermatitis. The preparation of this
remedy which has offered the best results is prepared by combining
1 ounce of fluid extract of Gum Plant, Grindelia, 1 ounce of 90 proof
alcohol, and 1 or two ounces of water, and applied as frequently as
the itch demands. At night a compress made with it may be applied
to the affected portions of the body. In conjunction with the outward
application, it should be given internally : Tincture of Grindelia, 5 to
20 drops in water according to age and conditions, 3 or 4 times a day.
Grindelia is also indicated in asthma, bronchial, or allergic
cases, and respiratory conditions with which harsh, dry coughs and
wheezing are associated. It is of no value to asthma where the heart
is involved.
Dosage: Tincture of Grindelia alone, 5 to 30 drops according
to age or condition.
HAWTHORN
Crataegus oxyacantha
Common name: Hawthorn Berries, May, May Blossom, White
thorn.
Non-organic, irregular, and feeble heart action, vulvular mur
murs. Dyspnea on least exertion, irregular pulse action. Hyper
tension. Not stimulative.
Mild cases of diminished heart reserve are conditions when the
Natura physician seeks to avoid prescribing toxic drugs.
Crataegus, in combination with Cactus grandiflorus, is the ideal
agent, being non-toxic it may be administered as long as necessary
without ill effects.
"Crataegus is a mild and non-poisonous cardiac remedy with
anti -spasmodic properties that render it a valuable drug in angina
pectoris. It is to be considered more of a sedative and regulator of
the heart than a stimulant." —Dr. Thomas F. Reilly.
THE NATURA PHYSICIAN'S ARMAMENTARIUM 87
Crataegus should not be given in large doses, as it may cause
nausea :
Tincture of Hawthorn (Crataegus oxyacantha) 12 drops
Tincture of Cactus (Cereus grandiflorus) 2 drops
Dosage : Three or 4 times a day. The combination tablet is to
be preferred to the tincture.
Specifically: The Cactus and Crataegus combination is a "sus
taining" agent indicated in cardiac conditions when a frequent or
constant toning effect is necessary. It is non -toxic or irritating to the
digestive organism. It will not substitute where Digitalis or Glonoin
is indicated.
HOREHOUND
Marrubium vulgare
Common name: Marrabium, Horehound.
Horehound is an old domestic remedy formerly employed in the
family in the treatment of colds and coughs.
Medically it is classed as a stimulant, diaphoretic, and slightly
laxative. In such cases it is given as a hot infusion or as a tincture
in hot water. The hot infusion or tincture in hot water serves best
when combined with other agents for the purpose intended.
The infusion or tincture given cold is a bitter tonic, useful in
consumptive coughs. In syrup it is a tonic and expectorant.
"Horehound is an effective expectorant and stimulant in break
ing up recent colds, bronchitis, bronchial catarrh, and certain types
of asthma where there is mucous expectoration, dyspnea and aphonia,
and laryngitis."—Dr. Verbon.
Horehound infusion, or tincture in hot water, sweetened with
honey is excellent in asthma and all complaints of the lungs and
bronchial tubes. The syrup made with honey and kept on hand in
many families is used to loosen tough phlegm and harshness caused
by colds.
In deep-seated colds with cough, it is best combined with Asclepias
and Scutellaria:
Tincture of Scullcap (Scutellaria Laterifolia) 2 to 15 drops
Tincture of Pleurisy Root (Asclepias tuberosa) 20 to 45 drops
Tincture of Horehound (Marrubium vulgara) 5 to 40 drops
In warm water every 2 or 3 hours according to symptoms.
88 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
Dose : Tincture alone, 20 to 30 drops indicated by age and con
dition, every 2 to 3 hours.
Marrabium is an ingredient in practically all old-fashioned cough
syrups and so innocent that it is an ingredient in a favorite candy.
In making an infusion, a teaspoonful of the powdered herb is
added to a cup of boiling water ; steep for half an hour ; give a table-
spoonful sweetened with a little honey, frequently.
Dosage: Tincture Marrubium alone, 5 to 40 drops in hot water
as indicated.
INDIGO, WILD
Baptisia tinctoria
Common names: Rattlebush, Horse-fly Bush, Wild Indigo,
Yellow Indigo.
Baptisia was once a household remedy in typhoid fever; later
much prescribed by Eclectic and Physio-Medical physicians and
continues to be much depended on by Natura physicians. Many physi
cians generally lost faith in it for the treatment of typhoid fever,
until the Flower Hospital in New York made extensive experiments
with it and found that faith in it was well-based.
Baptisia exerts a vital influence aiding in metabolism, in stimu
lating the elimination of accumulated waste in the body, and in
encouraging normal organic activity. IT IS OF GREAT IMPOR
TANCE IN ALL SEPTIC AND DEGENERATIVE CONDI
TIONS, MANIFESTING THEMSELVES IN VARIOUS
FORMS OF ULCERATION AND IMPORTANT IN SERIOUS
ERUPTIVE DISEASES.
It is a dependable agent in ulcerative and mucous colitis and
amoebic dysentery ; both difficult conditions to cope with. In follicular
tonsilitis and quinsy, it is indicated both as internal medication and as
a gargle.
In false membraneous croup it helps to loosen the false membrane.
It is a basic agent in the treatment of cracked nipples so frequently
occurring at the beginning of nursing, best combined with non-alcoholic
witch hazel and Calendula. In ulceration of the rectum, fluid extract
of Baptisia should be combined with Krameria.
THE NATURA PHYSICIAN'S ARMAMENTARIUM 89
In all morbid, internal conditions a dependable formula is:
Tincture of Wild Indigo (Baptisia tinctoria) 2 to 20 drops
Tincture of Rhatany (Krameria triandra) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Coneflower (Echinacea angustifolia) 20 to 40 drops
In water every 2 to 4 hours depending on symptoms.
Dosage: Tincture Baptisia alone, 2 to 20 drops. Dosage should
be guarded.
An infusion may be made with a teaspoonful of the powdered
root, steeped in a pint of boiling water, 1 to 2 teaspoonsful every few
hours, or according to condition. Half of this amount in a quart of
slightly warm water in an enema in all septic or ulcerations of the
rectum serves exceedingly well.
Specificially : Baptisia is indicated in the treatment of typhoid.
Generally it is of great importance in the treatment of septic condi
tions of the blood, serious forms of prostration, muscular soreness,
rheumatic and arthritic pains, in conditions where there is constriction
of the chest, and general soreness of the body. It is well to combine
with other remedies when there are chills associated with a temper
ature.
BED BOOT or JEBSEY TEA
Ceanothus Americanus
Common names : New Jersey Tea, Wild Snowball, Red Root.
Ceanothus is considered as the spleen remedy, though it is prob
ably second to Chionanthus in general practice.
Ceanothus is one of the few remedies which has a decided direct
action on the spleen and is indicated also in all ailments where there
is despondency and melancholy.
It is also astringent, an expectorant, sedative, anti-spasmodic,
and anti-syphilitic, and may be combined with any other agents where
these properties are required. It has proven useful in agents where
these properties are required, in dyspepsia, especially of the nervous
(mentally induced type) asthma, chronic bronchitis, whooping-cough,
and consumption.
Special indication: Whenever there is a tendency during any
ailment to despondency and melancholy and a tenderness to the touch
90 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
over the region of the spleen, Ceonothus should from part of the
formula or given alone in tincture form, though in domestic use an
infusion was given.
Symptoms where the liver is involved with some type of dyspepsia,
it is well combined with :
Tincture of Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) 7 to 10 drops
Tincture of Fringe Tree (Chiolanthus virginica) 3 to 7 drops
Tincture of Jersey Tea (Ceanothus americanus) 10 to 20 drops
In water after meals and bedtime.
An infusion is made by steeping a teaspoon of the herb in cut
or powdered form in a cup of boiling water, a teaspoon of this in
water 3 or 4 times a day.
Dosage : Tincture Ceanothus alone, 10 to 20 drops in water 3 or
4 times a day.
KELP
Fucus vesiculosis
Kelp is neither a food nor a medicine except in the sense that
it supplies mineral elements so essential to the normal functioning
of the system in a form easily assimilated. It is a remedial agent
in that it is rich in Iodine which the thyroid must have to properly
function ; therefore, it has a strong influence —is a sustainer —to both
the nervous system and the brain, helping the brain to function nor
mally. It is an essential during pregnancy.
The Iodine that is obtained from what are known as "kelp
tablets" may be readily obtained from sea weed, one kind of which is
used by many families for making blanc mange, a gelatin made with
milk, honey, and flavoring highly prized by children.
Kelp is also rich in the mineral element sodium, so essential
in the treatment of rheumatism and arthritis to keep the calcium in the
system "liquefied"1 and potassium, considered essential in the treat
ment of blood pollution and cancer.
Fucus is most helpful in the nourishment of the body, due to its
ability to stimulate metabolism. It is a diuretic, in the sense that it
helps to eliminate water imbalance (excess of water) from the system.
1. Not as yet generally conceded by the orthodox medical profession.
THE NATURA PHYSICIAN'S ARMAMENTARIUM 91
Valuable as it
is,
it
cannot supplant thyroid (made from the fresh
gland) for women in pregnancy, especially where there
is
a
history of
mental imbalance in the family history.
KNOTGRASS
Polygonum aviculare
Common names
:
Beggarweed, Pigweed, Red Robin.
Also known as the gravel remedy. Although Knotgrass
is
of much
value in many ailments and considered as
a
domestic agent because
it
was long used for the purpose intended, its chief influence
is
on the
bladder, and
it
has generally been used for the removal of stones
from the bladder even after all other treatments had failed. It
is
not given to prevent the formation of stones, but to dissolve stones
already formed. For this purpose
it
is
best combined with Shave
Grass three or more time
a
day, either in the infusion or tincture.
Tincture Polygonum, 10 to 20 drops combines well with the
Equisetum Arvenes formula for the same purpose.
AMERICAN VALERIAN or LADY'S SLIPPER
Cypripedium pubescens
Common names: American Valerian, Umbel, Yellow Moccasin
Flower, Noah's Ark.
"Cypripedium
is
adapted to atonic conditions and improves both
the circulation and the nutrition of the nerve centers. As
a
remedy
for nervous excitability or irritability not dependent upon organic
lesions,
it
allays the irritation and with
it,
pain (if present) and
produces
a
calm and tranquil condition of both body and mind.
It
is
of special value in reflex functional disorders, or chorea, hysteria,
nervous headache, insomnia low fevers, nervous unrest, hypochondria,
and nervous depression accompanying stomach disorders. It
is
indi
cated in sleeplessness, neuralgia, and delirium, all due to atony; in
menstrual irregularities, with despondency; mental depression from
sexual over-indulgence; and in tendency to dementia at the climac
teric."—Dr. Thomas —Lloyd.
92 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
In insomnia:
Tincture of Lady's Slipper (Cypripedium pubescens) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Passion Flower (Pasiflora incomata) 10 to 20 drops
On retiring, repeat as necessary.
In despondency and a feeling of depression due to stomach
disorders :
Tincture of Lady's Slipper (Cypripedium pubescent) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Common Chamomile (Anihemis nobilis) 8 to 20 drops
In water before meals, and on retiring.
Cypripedium is a mild acting tonic, diaphoretic and antispasmodic
and a gentle nerve stimulant. It is especially important in the treat
ment of delicate children and women.
As a home remedy the root is best roughly ground, 5 tablespoons
in a pint of boiling water ; steep for an hour. One tablespoonful every
hour, as needed. Dosage of tincture of Cypripedium alone, 5 to 30
drops according to age and severity of condition.
Specificially : Restlessness, chorea, hysteria, nervous depression,
functional nervous disorders, inclination to neurosis, and dementia
during climacterics.
LIFE BOOT
Senecio vulgaris
Common name : Groundsel, Common.
Life Root is also known as Squaw Weed, Golden Senecio, Female
Regulator.
A woman's remedy : It was used as a household remedy and its
common name of Life Root is an indication of the many different uses
made of it.
It is an important agent in the various functional irregularities
of women, especially during the menopause.
Senecio stimulates the pelvic organism, relieving engorgement.
It strengthens flabby uterine ligaments. It removes pressure stemming
from the perineum, bladder, and rectum, frequently following child
birth and during the menopause.
THE NATURA PHYSICIAN'S ARMAMENTARIUM 93
Senecio is both harmless and efficient in gynecological disorders
such as dysmenorrhea, menorrhagia, atonic leukorrhea and other dis
turbances of the pelvic organism.
For diseases of men, it is an important agent in prostatic enlarge
ment of the soft, boggy, atonic types.
Dosage : Tincture Senecio alone, 10 to 25 drops in water, three
ct four times a day.
LILY-OF-THE-VALLEY
Convallaria magalis
Common name : May Lily.
A heart medicine. Substitute for digitalis, but is not toxic. It
does upset the stomach.
The action of Convalarium is somewhat the opposite of Cactus
and Craetagus. It increases the coronary circulation, promotes more
vigorous and regular heart action correcting dyspnea and increasing
urinary activity.
It combines well with Echinacea (Coneflower) and Pytholacca
(Poke Root).
Dosage: Tincture Convallarium alone, 5 to 15 drops in water
as required.
Specifically : Convallaria is indicated in distention of the heart
ventricles, palpitation, dyspnea, and irregular heart beat. It is a
heart tonic. It is of much value as a diuretic and combines well with
other agents for that purpose, especially when there is an indication
that the heart weakness is partially the cause. Dosage of the tincture,
5 to 20 drops in water and should always be well within limits, but
may be given more frequently than three times a day if symptoms
indicate it.
MARIGOLD
Calendula officinalis
Common names: Pot Marigold, Marybud, Holigold.
Calendula is the Natura physician's most reliable non-poisonous,
non-toxic, non-irritating dressing for sores, burns, and wounds. It
94 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
is an invaluable domestic aid and should be in the closet of every
family where physicians are not always available.
"Old suppurating ulcers, sloughing sores, abscesses, non-malig
nant ulceration, excoriations, and chafing, burns and scalds are some
of the conditions that may be permanently relieved. As a dressing
to relieve uterine-catarrh, and as a wash to arrest offensive nasal
discharge, it is an efficient agent." —Dr. Niederkorn —Lloyd.
"Useful in catarrhal and inflamed conditions of the mucous sur
faces. A topical remedy in leukorrhea, simple ulcerations, pruritus
ani, and vulvae, wounds, burns, traumatic injuries, and after surgical
operations to promote healing." —Dr. Anderson.
Generally arnica is used where Calendula would be of much
greater service.
For practically all wet dressings, including those to be applied
by tampons to the cervix, the ideal combination is :
Tincture of Marigold (Calendula officinalis) 5 to 40 drops
Tincture of Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) 7 to 12 drops
Tincture of Cranesbill (Geranium maculatum) 20 to 40 drops
The non-alcoholic tinctures should be used.
In malignant sores, whatever their nature, half an ounce of
tincture Echinacea should be added.
Specifically : Calendula as a single remedy is of utmost importance
in all irritated conditions of the mucous surfaces such as non-malig
nant ulcerations, leukorrhoea, all types of pruritus, for bruises and
burns, and in almost every form of dressing for irritations.
MAY FLOWER
Pulsatilla
In chlorsis, due to its organic iron content, it is of great benefit,
especially when there is nervousness. In neuralgia of the wandering,
erratic type, it is indicated. In catarrhal affections such as mucous
diarrhea and leukorrhoea it should be one of the agents employed
In nervous and gastric sick-headache, it is equally beneficial.
Its greatest value, however, is in disorders of menstruation and
spermatorrhoea. It has a decided influence upon the reproductive
THE NATURA PHYSICIAN'S ARMAMENTARIUM 95
organism of both male and female. It lessens sexual excitement, but
at the same time increases sexual strength.
Pulsatilla is a remedy of wide applicability, but more particu
larly for those conditions in which the mind is a prominent factor.
A gloomy mentality, a state of nerve depression and unrest, a dispo
sition to brood over real or imagined trouble, a tendency to look on
the dark side of life, sadness, mild restlessness, and a state of mental
unrest generally denominated in broad terms nervousness are factors
in the condition of the patient requiring Pulsatilla. A Pulsatilla patient
weeps easily, and the mind is inclined to wander —to be unsettled.
The pulse requiring Pulsatilla is weak, soft, and open, and the
tissues have a tendency to dryness (except when the mucous tissues
are discharging a thick, bland material), and about the orbits the parts
appear contracted, sunken, and dark in color. The whole countenance
and movements of the body depict sadness, moroseness, despondency,
and lack of tone. Hysteria of the mild and weeping form may be a
symptom. The whole condition is one of nervous depression, the nutri
tion of the nerve centers are at fault. With such symptoms, Pulsatilla
may be confidently prescribed in the conditions and disorders enumer
ated. Pulsatilla may be given to produce sleep, when there is great
exhaustion and opiates are inadmissible. If the insomnia depends
upon determination of blood to the brain, Pulsatilla will not relieve,
but when due to nervous exhaustion it is a prompter remedy to give
rest, after which sleep obtains. Where sleep is disturbed by unpleasant
dreams, and the patient awakens sad and languid, Pulsatilla should
be given. Pulsatilla has a large field in troubles incident in the repro
ductive organs of both sexes. As an emmenagogue, it serves a useful
purpose in amenorrhea in nervous and anemic subjects, with chilli
ness a prominent symptom. When menstruation is suppressed, tardy,
or scanty from taking cold, or from emotional causes, Pulsatilla is
the remedy. In dysmenorrhea, not due to mechanical causes, and with
the above named nervous symptoms no remedy is more effective.
Leukorrhoea, with free, thick, milky, or yellow, bland discharge
and pain in the loins, and particularly in scrofulous individuals, calls
for Pulsatilla. It is a remedy for mild forms of hysteria where the
patient is weak and weeps easily, has fears of impending danger, and
passes large quantities of clear, limpid urine, and menstruation is
suppressed.
96 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
"The long-continued use of Pulsatilla as an intercurrent remedy
is accredited with curative effects in uterine colic, but it is of no value
during an attack. Pulsatilla frequently proves a good remedy in
ovaritis and ovaralgia with tensive, tearing pain. Sluggish, ineffec
tual, and weak labor-pains are sometimes remedied by this drug.
It is frequently a remedy for pain, when dependent on or associated
with debility, and sometimes when due to acute inflammation. It is a
leading remedy in epididymitis and orchitis, whether due to gonor-
rhoeal infection or to metastasis from mumps. The dark-red con
gested, enlarged, and sensitive testicle indicates it. It relieves the
pains of orchialgia, and subdues mammary swelling from the metastasis
of mumps. Pulsatilla increases sexual power, but lessens morbid
sexual excitement. It is especially valuable in relieving urethral irri
tation and consequent spermatorrhoea and prostatorrhoea. In these
troubles it overcomes the nervous apprehension so frequently a
troublesome feature. It also alleviates the nervous irritability accom
panying or produced by variocele. In gonorrhea, particularly of the
chronic type, Pulsatilla is of value also in cases where the urethra
membrane is swollen." Vol. 2, American Dispensatory.
Pulsatilla, though of special importance to the treatment of vari
ous past and especially of present day ailments with mental evolve-
ments, is truly a woman's remedy, though it is of importance in the
treatment of sex ailments in men.
Pulsatilla, though considered especially a sex-mental ailment
remedy, has other important uses. It is indicated in catarrhal condi
tions of the ears frequently in children. Earache during colds and other
minor and passing aural conditions respond to Pulsatilla.
Nasal catarrh so frequent in children, of an acute nature due
to febrile affections, and the watery catarrhal discharges that may be
persistent yield to its influence.
Pulsatilla should be taken only under the direct care of a physi
cian.
Dosage: Pulsatilla alone, 1 to 3 drops in water every 2 or
3 hours or as indicated by severity of condition.
Specifically: Pulsatilla has been considered a sex remedy. It
should be included in practically every formula for women's ailments
where there is a neurotic tendency. Pulsatilla has a direct influence
THE NATURA PHYSICIAN'S ARMAMENTARIUM 97
on the mental attitude (the brain) and the spinal cord, and upon
the entire nervous system.
MOTHERWORT
Leonurus cardiaca
Leonurus is another of the Natura Physician's dependable reme
dies.
Leonurus is a composite agent and its real value is not generally
understood. It
is,
in essence,
a
valuable bitter tonic and an actual
stomachic of benefit in almost all stomach difficulties.
It
is
a
splendid
nervine and of much value in dysmenorrhea, hysteria, palpitation of
the heart, and urinary cramps, and may be used singly in all such cases,
or in combination with other agents.
It
will inhibit, by removing the
cause of, albumen in the urine, and the scanty muddy urine of typhoid,
it
is
almost
a
specific, and
it
is
valuable in many types of rheumatism.
Leonurus
is
a
true tonic nervine. It
is
an agent especially
strengthening to the heart —the indicated remedy in palpitation of the
heart —useful in hysteria and in restlessness, pains peculiar to women,
delirium tremens, and in some combinations of value in the treatment
of affections of the liver.
It
has frequently proven
a
matchless agent in rheumatism and
sciatica, as well as in neuritis, due to its potency in the elimination
of congestive material from the system.
Motherwort has been employed for time unknown as
a
domes
tic remedy, in the form of infusion. In long standing chronic condi
tions,
a
teaspoonful of the herb boiled in
a
pint of water until reduced
by half, this divided into three portions to be taken one portion in the
morning, one at noon, and one at night. Where there
is
pain or con
gestion,
it
should be taken in hot water.
In general practice
it
is
best given in tablet form, three to four
3-grain tablets in hot or cold water according to condition.
Dosage: Tincture Leonurus alone,
9
to 15 drops in water
3
or
more times
a
day.
Specifically: Leonurus in the smaller dosage should be pre
scribed for every woman during pregnancy. Experience has proven
98 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
to physicians that it prevents frequent kidney complications during
that period, especially albumen in the urine.
It combines well with all formulas for the various ailments so
generally suffered by women during various periods in life. Its appli
cation should be carefully studied by the liberal and Natura physician
to be fully informed of its use, as have been the women throughout
the centuries, possibly even before its use by Indian women was made
known to them.
MYERH
Commiphora myrrha
Common name: Balsamodendon myrrha.
In morbid conditions, Myrrh is a remedy second only to
Echinacea. It is usually spoken of as gum myrrh, although it con
tains very little gum, chiefly resin. In whatever form it is used, Myrrh
will be found to be a powerful antiseptic having for thousands of years
been used for preservative purposes, as well as a medicinal agent. It is
generally administered as a tincture in water or syrup, although the
powder may be given to equally good advantage. Two grains of the
powdered Myrrh may be considered an average dose, best given com
bined with other indicated agents.
A small teaspoonful each of powdered Myrrh and Goldenseal
to a pint of boiling water and a little ginger added will be found useful
to weak stomach where the food is prone to ferment. Dose: A tea
spoon every 2 hours.
Outwardly applied, Myrrh is invaluable for foul ulcers, bed
sores, and all forms of gangrene and is mixed with powdered charcoal.
Powdered Myrrh with Hydrastis may be sprinkled into indolent sores.
Powdered Myrrh and Goldenseal, with a little borax, may be blown
into the throat of persons suffering from diphtheria or other sore
throat ailments. It will destroy the putrescence of the membranes
and prevent blood absorption of toxins. Powdered Myrrh is a supe
rior tooth powder, especially where the gums are tender and bleeding.
The compound tincture of Myrrh, known as Thomson For
mula 6, is a powerful stimulant and antiseptic. It is unequalled as an
antiseptic for foul ulcers and is superior, when diluted, to practically
THE NATURA PHYSICIAN'S ARMAMENTARIUM 99
every other antiseptic in operative surgery. Internally, a few drops
in a glass of water will prove a powerful stimulant in shock, collapse,
prostration, and profound congestion.
Formula 6 may be quickly and readily made thus :
Tincture of Myrrh (Commiphora myrrha) 2 to 5 drops
(Capsicum minimum) 2 to 3 drops
In hot water as frequently as indicated by symptoms.
To add potency, tincture of Coneflower 10 drops, may be added.
Myrrh has been successfully employed in chronic diarrhoea and
in diseases of the lungs and chest attended by a free expectoration and
general debility. It is also well adapted to female complaints, when
unattended by fever.
Applied to fresh wounds, the tincture of Myrrh excites healing
action and lessens the liability to the occurrence of unhealthy inflam
mation. It is equally useful in old sores, ulcerated sore throat, running
from the ears, aphthous sore mouth, spongy gums, and sore nipples.
The tincture of Myrrh is successfully employed to promote the
exfoliation of bones. In sinus ulcers, and cavities that continue to
discharge matter in consequence of a debilitated state of the vessels
of the part, tincture of Myrrh injected into the cavity repeated daily,
or even more often, will seldom fail to establish the inflammatory
action necessary for the production of granulations and a union of
the cavity. Where the parts are too sensitive to admit the tincture
to be used undiluted, it may be combined with water, or better yet,
Bayberry tea. In cases of scrofulous ulcers, white swellings, hip
disease, and wherever there is a free discharge of matter from any
reachable part of the body, and the system is in a relaxed condition, the
use of Myrrh will prove beneficial.
After a vapor bath when the patient is rubbed dry, applying partly
diluted tincture of Myrrh2 affords a means of protection against cold,
by strengthening and improving the condition of the skin. This prac
tice is useful especially in cases where the skin is relaxed and the
patient feeble, as in chronic bronchitis, consumption, chronic pleurisy,
asthma, chronic rheumatism, chronic diarrhoea, marasmus, and in
every other form of disease attended by general debility.
2. As it is now extremely difficult to procure pure grain alcohol for rubs
after pack, steam or shower baths, the tincture of Myrrh should be used instead,
thus assuring purity and harmlessness.
100 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
In deeply seated colds attended by a free expectoration of a thick
yellowish secretion, the use of Thomson Formula 6 will be found
highly beneficial.
An external application of Thomson Formula 6, i.e., compound
tincture of Myrrh and Capsicum, has been found useful in rheuma
tism, neuralgia, and like ailments. To help bring about relaxation,
an equal amount of tincture Lobelia may be added. In applying the
compound for the relief of dropsy, night-sweats, consumption, and in
all diseases where the skin is relaxed, Lobelia need not be added.
The compound tincture may be applied to great advantage in
sprains, bruises, fresh cuts, indolent ulcers, gangrene, and as a preven
tive to mortification both internally and externally.
In that much and rightly dreaded condition foreshadowing mas
toiditis where there is running of the ear or where this can be induced,
there is no safer or more successful method for the possible relief of
the condition, than the frequent syringing of the ear with:
Tincture of Myrrh (Commiphora myrrha) 5 drops
Tincture of Coneflower (Echinacea angustifolia) 5 drops
Mix with half ounce of warm water: 5 drops in the ear 2 or 3
times a day, lightly massaging the area around the ear after drops are
used and warmth applied over the ear.
Dosage of tincture of Myrrh alone, 2 to 5 drops.
Specifically : Myrrh stimulates indolent ulcers and eczema when
applied externally. The undiluted tincture is applied to ulcerated
gums, aphthous patches, and relaxed conditions of the vulva, pharynx,
and in ptyalism.
Internally, it is employed in bronchitis and sometimes in tuber
culosis. Atonic dyspepsia is often favorably influenced by Myrrh
combined with bitters. In amenorrhea, it is combined with other
indicated agents.
PASSION FLOWER
Passiflora incarnata
Passiflora should be given in all feverish conditions where there
is extreme nervousness and lack of sleep. It is quieting and soothing
to the nervous system. The Natura physician refuses to give drugs
that are habit forming. Passiflora takes the place of narcotics.
THE NATURA PHYSICIAN'S ARMAMENTARIUM 101
"Passiflora is helpful for nervousness, when not due to pain.
Where there is a state of unrest, agitation, worry, and exhaustion;
the patient does not sleep ; there is cerebral excitement and a marked
tendency toward convulsion, particularly in the young, as evidenced
by muscular twitching. When convulsions are accompanied or pre
ceded by the foregoing, Passiflora is a valuable agent. It is useful
in controlling asthenic insomnia, particularly of childhood and old
people. When in typhoid and other dynamic fevers, the patient is
extremely restless and excitable and cannot sleep, this agent will
give rest and slowly produce a remarkably natural and refreshing
sleep. It is especially valuable for asthenic conditions ; when these are
present it tones the sympathetic nervous system, improving the circula
tion and nutrition of the nerve centers." —Dr. Neiderkorn —Lloyd.
Passiflora is an antispasmodic indicated in insomnia generally,
many types of neuroses, some forms of asthma, and acute (temporary)
mania. In these cases 30 to 60 drops of the tincture are given fre
quently. It is a safe remedy to give to restless children small doses
of 3 to 10 drops in water every 30 minutes until there is relief.
Passiflora is considered by the Natura physician as a mild anti
spasmodic and soporific in infantile spasms and restlessness in low
fevers, and in reflex nervous excitement and should be prescribed
instead of bromides.
Passiflora is best prescribed in the form of tincture or tablets.
Dosage: Tincture of Passiflora alone, 15 to 60 drops in water
according to age and condition as frequently as necessary.
Specifically: Passiflora is the "opium" (non-poisonous and not
dangerous) of the true Natura physician. It is an antispasmodic and
mild soporific. It is indicated in asthenic insomnia, in some cases of
infantile spasms, and also in the restlessness and insomnia of low
fevers. It is given by physico-medicalists in cases usually placed under
bromide medication.
PEPPERMINT
Mentha piperita
Peppermint, though not of the same type of herb, is much of the
same nature as Horehound and Spearmint and is well combined with
102 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
them in making an infusion or syrup. Peppermint has an additional
virtue, it is of much value in the colic and cramps of children. Infu
sion, made in the same manner, by itself or in combination with
Horehound and Spearmint, and given in the same dosage for colic
and cramps, always in hot water as frequently as necessary.
Dosage : Tincture Mentha Piperita alone, 10 to 50 drops accord
ing to age and severity of attack.
PIPSISSEWA
PRINCE'S PINE— CHIMAPHILIA UMBELIATA
Chimaphila umbellata
Common names: Ground Holly, Prince's Pine, and its most
familiar name "Winter Green." Not to be confused with Winter-
green (Gaultheria procumbens).
The Dropsy remedy. Infusions of Wintergreen were a domestic
remedy long before tinctures, and the oil was part of medical practice.
Pipsissewa is a diuretic, tonic, alternative, and an astringent. It is
of great value in scrofula and chronic rheumatism. In diseases of
the kidneys, especially dropsy, it is the Natura physician's standby.
In scrofula and other blood diseases it is best combined with
other agents such as yellow dock, dandelion root, and others of like
nature.
In dropsy :
Tincture of Pipsissewa (Chimaphila umbellata) 2 to IS drops
Tincture of Poplar Bark (Populus tremuloides) 10 to IS drops
Three or four times a day, according to condition —always in
plenty of water. The same combination may be given successfully
in conditions when the urine is scanty, and containing offensive and
non-offensive pus, or pus and blood mixed. When the urine is
scalding or burning, in chronic urethral and prostatic irritations,
chronic relaxation of the bladder, and chronic prostatitis with catarrh
of the bladder, it is of great value in skin diseases, of benefit in
gonorrheal rheumatism.
In folk or domestic usage the combination of agents was made
into an infusion, but it is best given in the tincture:
THE NATURA PHYSICIAN'S ARMAMENTARIUM 103
Tincture of Pipsissewa (Chimaphila umbellata) 2 to IS drops
Tincture of Poke Root (Phytolacca decandra) 2 to 10 drops
Tincture of Prickly Ash (Xanthoxylum americanum) 5 to 20 drops
Tincture of Stickwort (Agrimonia Eupatoria) 10 to 30 drops
In water, three or four times a day.
Dosage: Tincture of Pipsissewa, 2 to 15 drops in water as fre
quently as required.
PLEURISY ROOT
Asclepias tuberose
Common names: Butterfly-Weed, Wind Root, Tuber Root,
Canada Root.
A diaphoretic that is always safe and certain in its action and
when given in sufficiently large doses in hot water it is the ideal
medication in pneumonia and pleurisy. In these acute conditions it
must be combined with another agent such as Scutellaria. Asclepias
should always be administered in the form of a hot infusion or the
tincture given in water hot as the patient can drink. It is an entirely
safe sweating agent and should be used freely until free perspiration is
secured. In high temperature, especially in pneumonia, where quick
action is desired the regular dose should be administered every half
hour or even more frequently. Once free perspiration has been
established, the dosage may be decreased by giving less frequently, but
always in warm water, until the temperature is near normal and the
lungs free from congestion.
"Asclepias is the diaphoretic and is associated with a sedative
when an increased action of the skin is required.
"Asclepias has a decided influence over serous and mucous
membranes, hence it becomes exceedingly useful as an associate
remedy in pleurisy. Alone it is a decided remedy for catarrhal affec
tions of the pulmonary and gastro-intestinal tracts when due to
colds. For these purposes it is especially adapted to the stomach and
bowel disorders of children exhibited by weakness, mucous discharges,
and gastric irritability, with general nervous unrest. It is a remedy
for vaso-disturbances in the parts supplied by the bronchial arteries
and is a prompt remedy for intercostal pain.
104 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
"It is especially a child's remedy, being feeble in its action in
small doses, though quite certain. When freely given, it is one of the
most certain diaphoretics we have. Even in small doses of one drop,
it will markedly increase the true secretions from the skin."—Dr.
Feller —Lloyd.
In the onset of colds, give 5 to 15 drops of the tincture of
Asclepias in hot water, and 3 grains of Capsicum, every hour until
the whole person is warm as indicated. While taking this remedy
in hot water or as an infusion, chills must be carefully avoided.
Children may be given 1 to 5 drops in hot water depending on
age and condition. If very restless, add same amount of Scutellaria.
In pneumonia and acute pleurisy give:
Tincture of Pleurisy Root (Asclepias tuberose) 15 to 40 drops
Tincture of Skullcap (Scutellaria Lateriflora) 2 to 20 drops
Every hour, or more frequently, until a free perspiration is estab
lished; then less frequently, and as soon as the lungs are free an
active stimulant like Capsicum should be taken, followed by a tonic
of the nature of Hydrastis. Children, 3 to 10 drops, depending on
age and condition.
In peritonitis give :
Tincture of Pleurisy Root (Asclepias tuberose) 20 to 30 drops
Tincture of Coneflower (Echinacea angustifolia) 2 to 30 drops
Tincture of Indian Tobacco (Lobelia inflata) 3 to 10 drops
Every 1 or 2 hours in cool water. If the temperature becomes
subnormal, Cayenne Pepper in 2 to 4 grain doses every hour.
In all acute congested conditions of the lungs, Asclepias is the
indicated remedy. Boneset may be substituted for Scutellaria when
this agent is not procurable.
Dosage: Tincture Asclepias, 5 to 40 drops every 3 hours or
more frequently depending on age and condition.
Infusion : 1 teaspoon cut or powdered herb in a teacup of boiling
water, steep for half an hour. Every 3 or 4 hours, for adults; in
proportion for children.
Specifically: Dryness of the respiratory mucous membranes,
especially when associated with a dry and slight fever —a condition
met with in many respiratory ailments.
THE NATURA PHYSICIAN'S ARMAMENTARIUM 105
POKE BOOT
Phytolacca decandra
Poke Root has a long history of usefulness in medicine. It has
been a household remedy for time beyond memory, and though toxic
in too large an amount there is no record of its ever having caused
harmful results, indicating that the housewives using it understood
both its value and its limitations.
Phytolacca is an alternative, a purgative, and an emetic. The
housewife generally depended on Lobelia (Indian Tobacco) as an
emetic and on Poke Root as a purgative.
In large doses it is a heart depressant and reduces blood pressure,
and it is useful for that purpose but should not be long continued.
It is an alterative; it stimulates metabolism, hence useful in
medication for undernourishment. It helps greatly in detoxicating
the system from poisonous congestions.
It is valuable in the treatment of rheumatism, lymphatic engorge
ment, and toxins in the blood.
It is a dependable agent in the treatment of mammillary swelling
from which so many women suffer following childbirth, making nurs
ing impossible. In such cases, a mixture of Phytolacca, 3 parts to
1 part of glycerine, will abort the swelling at its beginning, or where
suppuration has taken place it will help in drainage and bring about
granulation.
Specifically: Phytolacca is indicated and should be combined in
the formulas for throat conditions, especially when the membrane is
dark in color, tonsils swollen, shooting pains through the ear. With
difficulty in swallowing it should be thought of at the first indication
of irritation or inflammation of the throat and combined with other
agents in the treatment. It should also form a part of the formulas
in the treatment of chronic rheumatism and arthritis.
Its usefulness in costiveness has been proven throughout time.
Dosage : Tincture of Phytolacca alone, 2 to 5 drops as frequently
as indicated by symptoms.
106 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
POND LILY, WHITE
Nymphaea Odorata
Common names : Sweet-Scented Water Lily, Sweet Water Lily.
The non-alcoholic tincture is an excellent remedy for cold sores
of the mouth, scrofulous sores, as well as for purulent ophthalmia.
Nymphaea Odorata is an excellent agent in practically all canker
ous conditions and in complaints of the bowels.
Locally, for leukorrhea and in direct tampon applications or
packing for prolapsus uteri, ulceration of the cervix, and relaxed
vagina, it has few superiors.
It gives best results when combined with:
Non-alcoholic Tincture of Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) 1 ounce
Non-alcoholic Tincture of Marigold (Calendula officinale) 1 ounce
Non-alcoholic Tincture of White Pond Lily (Nymphaea odorata) 1 ounce
Only the non-alcoholic tinctures should be used. The same com
bination diluted may be used as a wash for sore eyes. With the
addition of one-quarter ounce tincture of Myrrh to the formula, this
combination is excellent for sore breasts, a painful and annoying
condition which many women suffer and which does not respond to
the average treatment. Nymphaea has the virtue of being non-poison
ous and non-irritating and may readily be applied frequently by
nursing mothers.
POPLAR
Populus tremuloides
Common names: White Poplar, American Aspen, Quaking
Aspen.
Poplar bark, as well as the leaves, have long been used domes
tically as an infusion by Thomsonian, physio-medical and Natura
physicians as a bitters to restore the digestive disturbances.
Used either as an infusion or the tincture, it will relax the
system, relieve headache due to the liver or stomach conditions,
relieve many other complaints caused by faulty digestion.
It is of much value in obstruction of the urine when not due to
THE NATURA PHYSICIAN'S ARMAMENTARIUM 107
prostatitis and weakness in the loins, and for those of a consumptive
constitution it should be given freely.
In chronic diarrhoea, chronic dysentery, and cholera infantum
it is a tonic rather than a stimulant.
Populus is clearly indicated in uterine, vaginal, and anal weak
nesses.
It is most effective when combined with Uva-Ursi:
Tincture of Quaking Aspen (Populus tremuloides) 2 to IS drops
Tincture of Upland Cranberry (Arctostaphylos Uvi-Ursi) 10 to 20 drops
In water three to four times a day.
Tincture of Populus alone, 2 to 15 drops in water as indicated.
Infusion: 1 teaspoon of either, or both, in a cup of boiling
water, steep half an hour, cool ; take two or more times a day.
RASPBEREY
Rubus Strigosus
Common name: Wild Red Raspberry.
Known as the children's remedy, long used in domestic practice
as a remedy in the bowel complaint of children.
Strigosus is a mild, pleasant, soothing, diffusive, stimulating,
astringent tonic, allaying nausea, sustaining the nerves, and toning
the mucous membranes.
It is a splendid agent in the relief of urethral irritation and is
soothing to the kidneys, urinary tract, and ducts. It is dependable
to sustain the uterus and stop hemorrhages. In such cases it should
be combined with equal parts Myrica:
Tincture of Raspberry (Rubus Idaeus) 5 to 20 drops
Tincture of Bayberry (Myrica cerifera) 10 to 40 drops
In water three to four times a day.
For the relief of urethral irritations, kidney infections, chronic
dysentery, and hemorrhages :
Tincture of Witch Hazel (Hamamelis virginiana) 10 to 40 drops
Tincture of Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) 7 to 12 drops
Tincture of Raspberry (Rubus Idaeus) 7 to 10 drops
In water according to symptoms as frequently as required.
108 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
Mothers generally have greater faith in the infusion than the
tinctures : 1 teaspoon of the bark and roots added to a cup of boiling
water, steep one-half hour or more ; strain. One-half teaspoon every
2 hours or more frequently. Continue until effective.
As a douche in leukorrhoea and as an enema for severe dysentery,
30 drops of Hydrastis, 1 tablespoon of non-alcoholic Hamamelis added
to a quart of cool water. Repeat as necessary.
Dosage: Tincture of Raspberry Strigosus alone, 30 to 60 drops
in water as required.
RHATANY
Krameria
Krameria is not generally known even to the profession, never
theless, it is one of the most important agents in the treatment of
typhoid fever and in all conditions where there is chronic inflamma
tion of the alimentary system such as enteritis, gastritis, proctitis,
and other ailments of similar nature.
Krameria is useful in the treatment of diarrhoea, including
amoebic dysentery and in ulcerated colitis as direct medication via
the enema.
Krameria is indicated in all diseases in which Baptisia (Indigo)
is prescribed:
Tincture of Rhatany (Krameria triandra) 10 to 30 drops
Tincture of Wild Indigo (Baptisia tinctoria) 2 to 20 drops
In water every 2 or 3 hours. Dosage and frequency to age and
condition. Dosage should be guarded.
In conditions where pus is present, as in ulceration, mucous
colitis, amoebic dysentery, and disease of like nature, several drops
of Myrrh should be added.
RHEUMATISM ROOT
Dioscarea VUlosa
Common name: Wild Yam.
The rheumatism remedy. This is another of the long used house
hold or domestic remedies used in the treatment of rheumatism and
THE NATURA PHYSICIAN'S ARMAMENTARIUM 109
later adopted by the Eclectic and Physio-Medical physicians. It is
an alternative and stimulates the removal of accumulated wastes and
congestions in the system, especially in the joints.
It is best when combined with :
Tincture of Burdock Root (Arctium Lappa) 10 to 40 drops
Tincture of Black Cohosh (Cimicifuga racemosa) 2 to IS drops
Tincture of Motherwort (Lonurus cardiaca) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Rheumatism Root (Dioscarea Villosa) 20 to 40 drops
In water 3 or 4 times a day.
Dosage: Tincture Dioscarea alone, 10 to 30 drops in water
3 or 4 times a day according to symptoms.
SCULLCAP, VIRGINIAN
Scutellaria Lateriflora
Common names : Hoodwort, Side-flowering Scullcap, Mad Weed,
Mad-Dog Scullcap.
Scullcap is best known to country people as Hoodwort or Mad-
Dog Weed.
From time memorial it has been used for them in feverishness
in children to induce perspiration and reduce temperature.
It has been, and continues to be, successfully used as a female
remedy for cramps and severe pain caused by suppressed menstrua
tion due to colds. In hysteria due to ovarian or uterine origin, when
given in conjunction with Pennyroyal as a tea, it is decidedly beneficial.
Scullcap is one of the most reliable tonic nervines and best used
in the form of an infusion from the herb or in practice the tincture
in hot water.
Combined with Capsicum and Hydrastis there is no substitute
in weaknesses of the heart :
Tincture of Scullcap (Scutellaria Lateriflora) 3 to IS drops
Tincture of Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) 7 to 10 drops
Tincture of Cayenne Pepper (Capsicum frutescens) 2 to 4 drops
In warm water as often as required.
In irritable, nervous conditions, Scutellaria should be combined
with:
110 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
Tincture of Lady's Slipper (Cypripedium pubescens) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Scullcap (Scutellaria Lateriflora) 2 to 15 drops
In water, every 2 to 4 hours in cold water as required.
A popular name given Scullcap long ago—mad weed or mad-
dog weed—is because of one of its former uses in preventing or curing
hydrophobia and the bites of poisonous snakes in combination with :
Tincture of Coneflower (Echinacea angustifolia) 15 to 30 drops
Tincture of Scullcap (Scutellaria Lateriflora) 2 to 15 drops
In water in doses as frequently as indicated.
Scullcap is a dependable sedative. It is invaluable in undue sexual
desire and may be given freely and persistently without the slightest
harm. In such cases it is best taken in the form of a tea made from
the herb itself. If this is nonprocurable, use the tincture in hot water.
"Scutellaria, by its action through the cerebro-spinal centers, is
a most valuable remedy controlling nervous irritation, calming hys
terical excitement, and relieving functional heart troubles where
cardiac action is irregular. In restlessness and excitement with in
somnia following prolonged application to business, long sickness,
or physical exhaustion it is most useful. When given in hot drinks
it acts more quickly and also brings on diaphoresis. In treating heavy
drinkers who wish to give up the habit, I know of nothing better than
Scutellaria. It steadies and sobers the patient and brings on sleep
and appetite." — Dr. Feam —Lloyd.
In insomnia or exhaustion, whether from excessive application
to business or due to alcoholics, give :
Tincture of Scullcap (Scutellaria Lateriflora) 2 to 12 drops
Tincture of Passion Flower (Passiflora incarnata) 15 to 40 drops
In water every 3 hours or more frequently depending on age
and condition.
Dosage: Tincture Asclepias alone, 3 to 12 drops in water as
indicated.
Infusion : One teaspoonful cut or powdered herb steeped in a
teacup of boiling water, steep half an hour. Every 3 or 4 hours for
adults, in proportion for children.
Specifically: Scutellaria is a sedative and tonic nervine. It has
a direct action on the cerebro-spinal centers, controls nervous irrita
tion, relieves restlessness and insomnia in fevers.
THE NATURA PHYSICIAN'S ARMAMENTARIUM 111
SHAVE GRASS
Equisetum arvense
Equisetum hyemale
Equisetum maximum
Equisetum sylvaticum
Common name : Horsetails.
Commonly known as the gravel remedy.
Shave Grass has long been used and is indicated in most kidney
and bladder ailments, especially in painful urination and when blood
is present in the urine.
It is useful as a compress in the treatment of old sores where
foul-smelling pus is present in combination with comfrey and myrrh.
Internally in all indicated conditions:
Tincture of Shave Grass (Equisetum arvense) 5 to 20 drops
Tincture of Couch Grass (Triticum repens) 20 to 40 drops
Tincture of Corn Silk (Stigmata Maydis) 10 to 20 drops
In water 3 or more times a day as required by condition.
Dosage: Tincture Equisetum alone, 5 to 20 drops in water, 3
times a day. As a domestic remedy, it is still much used in infusion :
One teaspoon of Shave Grass in a cup of boiling water, steep one-half
an hour, allow to cool. One tablespoonful 4 or more times a day
as required.
SPEARMINT
Mentha viridis
Spearmint is a companion to Horehound, and like Horehound
has always been, and continues to be, a family remedy. It combines
well with Spearmint, and for feverishness in children should be given
in infusion or the tincture in hot water.
In the extreme restlessness of feverish children, it should also
be given in enemas.
Spearmint, in hot infusion, will help produce perspiration and
the flow of urine in high fevers. In pleurisy and pneumonia it is a
splendid agent when combined with Asclepias and Scutellaria or other
agents. The formula for the combination is the same as with Hore
112 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
hound. Spearmint has been called the emesis remedy because it
will stop vomiting when other remedies are ineffective.
Dosage: Tincture Mentha Viridis alone, 10 to 50 drops in hot
water according to age and condition.
Infusion is made by steeping a teaspoon of the herb in a cup of
hot water for one-half an hour ; 1 tablespoonful frequently.
Like Marrubium, it combines well with practically all fever, cold,
and cough agents.
SQUAW VINE
Mitchella repens
Common names: Partridgeberry, One-Berry, Checkerberry,
Winter Clover, Deerberry, Hive Vine.
Most important function: For ages past, the American Indian
women have used Squaw Vine as a tea or infusion all during preg
nancy to assure proper development of the child and render parturi
tion both safe and easy, and at the same time develop lactation.
The Physio-Medical and Natura physician have learned by
experience that Mitchella has other important virtues, but use it
principally for this purpose.
Mitchella, besides being a parturient, a diuretic, and an astringent,
in practice it is generally best known as a uterine tonic, to relieve
congestion of the uterus and ovaries. It will help restore the menstrual
function and relieve menorrhagia, amenorrhea, and dysmenorrhea.
The continued use of Mitchella will control unpleasant nervous re
flexes during pregnancy and is one of the reasons that many women
use it continually during the period of gestation. Mitchella stimu
lates lactation and aids in normal recovery after confinement. Its use
should be continued during the entire period of nursing.
In domestic use an infusion or tea was made. One teaspoon of
Squaw Vine in a cup of boiling water, steep one-half an hour, let
cool before drinking. On an average, 2 or 3 cups a day throughout
pregnancy and nursing.
Dosage: Tincture Mitchella alone, as a general medication, 5 to
15 drops three times a day. The most desirable way to give it during
pregnancy and nursing is in tablet form, two to three, 3 grain tablets
three times a day.
THE NATURA PHYSICIAN'S ARMAMENTARIUM 113
The berries crushed into a pulp and added to tincture of Myrrh
are highly potent as a cure for sore nipples. Another method is to
boil leaves and berries in a pint of water until the pint is reduced to
2 ounces, then add one-quarter ounce of tincture of Myrrh and an
ounce of glycerine. Apply frequently. The berries used for an in
fusion are excellent in the treatment of dysentery when occurring
during pregnancy. In general practice tincture should be used.
STARGRASS
Aletris Farinosa
Common name: Ague Root, Crow Corn, True Unicorn Root,
Colic Root.
The woman's remedy. Compatible with, and well combines with,
Squaw Vine and Pleurisy Root during entire period of gestation.
Stargrass is a gentle stimulating and toning agent influencing
the female generative organism. In dysmenorrhoea it stimulates and
tones the uterus to normal action and relieves pain. In menorrhagia
it controlls excessive flow. It is one of the best preventives to mis
carriage and is associated with vitamin E. It is highly desirable to
prescribe it during the entire period of pregnancy together with Squaw
Vine and Milkwort:
Tincture of Stargrass (Aletris farinosa) 10 to 40 drops
Tincture of Squaw Vine (Mitchella repens) 5 to IS drops
Tincture of Milkwort (Polygala vulgaris) 1 to IS drops
In water 3 or 4 times a day.
Dosage: Tincture of Stargrass alone, 15 to 40 drops in water
as frequently as required.
In menorrhagia, dysmenorrhea and pain due to menstrual dys-
functioning :
Tincture of Stargrass (Aletris farinosa) 20 to 40 drops
Tincture of Black Haw (Vibrurnum opulus) S to 20 drops
Tincture of Blue Cohosh (Caulophyllum thalictroides) S to IS drops
Tincture of Squaw Vine (Mitchella repens) 5 to 15 drops
In hot water as required.
Specifically: This combination of natural agents has proven
exceptionally successfull in the treatment of ailments to which many
women are subject. It is dependable and free from after effects.
114 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
SUNDEW
Drosea rotundifolia
The whooping cough remedy. Though long a household remedy
for this annoying and often serious affliction, it found a welcome place
in the practice of the Eclectic, Physio-Medical and later liberal and
Natura physicians.
Drosea is especially valuable in controlling the spasms and cough
present generally in whooping cough.
Sundew is also indicated in laryngitis and for tobacco cough.
It is best combined with:
Tincture of Sundew (Drosera Rotundifolia) 2 to 5 drops
Tincture of Queen's Root (Stillingia Silvatica) 1 to 40 drops
Tincture of Passion Flower (Passiflora incornato) 3 to 10 drops
In water as frequently as necessary.
Dosage : Tincture Drosea alone, 3 to 6 drops in water as indi
cated.
Specifically : Frequent violent spasms of coughing and dry throat
associated with a deep, hoarse voice. Feeling of oppression in the
chest, worse at night.
TOUCH-ME-NOT
Impatiens aurea
Impatiens biflora
Common names : Balsam Weed, Balsam Jewelweed, Pale Touch-
Me-Not.
As its name "touch-me-not" implies, it is a warning against ivy
( rhus ) poisoning which may be easily contracted by a mere touch. As
balsam it is soothing and healing in weeping eczema —blisters formed
and opened.
In domestic use the fresh plant is crushed and applied. An infu
sion may be made by steeping several ounces of the plant or powder
in 8 ounces of boiling water for half an hour, strain and it is ready
for use. Dusting with the powder is also effective.
It can also be made into an ointment by slowly boiling the fresh
plant in lard, any strength desired, or heating the lard and mixing
THE NATURA PHYSICIAN'S ARMAMENTARIUM 115
the powder with it. Either infusion, powder or salve may be applied
to the poisoned areas of eczema.
The salve is of much value in treating bruises, wounds, ulcerated
conditions, and hemorrhoids.
TURTLE-HEAD
Chelone Glabra
Common name: Lesser Centuary, Bitter Herb, Balmony.
Chelone is a splendid agent in the treatment of common dys
pepsia and may be used freely for atonic conditions. It influences
the liver favorably and will combine well with Hydrastis and
Chionanthus. It is a moderate stimulating cholagogue. It is of service
in the treatment of chronic jaundice on account of its action on the
bile. As a mild hepatic tonic, it does well in convalescence from fevers
and other diseases where the liver is involved. In malassimilation,
it is one of the best agents, and it does good service in freeing the
system of stomach worms. In general debility it serves as a tonic.
Combined with diuretics, its tonic powers are exerted on the
kidneys; and in dropsy where there is chronic, hepatic, and gastric
torpor, the influence of this agent is excellent.
In jaundice, malnutrition and all conditions where the sufferer
consumes a sufficient amount of food but is not fully nourished by it,
the best combination is:
Tincture of Fringe Tree (Chiolanthus virginica)
5
to 10 drops
Tincture of Turtle-Head (Chelone glabra) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis)
7
to 10 drops
In
a
glass of water before each meal.
This formula
is
excellent, when there
is
a
general deficiency of
bile indicated by light colored stool. It
is
also indicated for children
when this condition exists over an extended period. Dose
:
According
to age.
For stomach and intestinal worms, the dose
is
from
3
to 40 drops,
depending upon the age of the person.
Dosage
:
Tincture Chelone alone, 10 to 20 drops, in water
3
or
4
times
a
day.
116 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
UNICORN ROOT, FALSE
Chamaelirium luteum
Common name: Helonias.
A miscarriage preventive remedy. False Unicorn Root is con
sidered a woman's remedy.
The Natura physician uses it frequently singly, or in combina
tion with other agents, during women's menopause. It is of much
value in practically all cases where there is pelvic atony, a sense of
pressure in the ovarian tubes and sacrum, and irritation of the
bladder. Especially valuable in nervousness, mental confusion, neu
rotic tendency, and general apathy.
Where there is a history of miscarriage, it is of value either
singly or with other agents indicated and in association with vita
min E.
Helonias is a tonic valuable in functional irritability, poor
assimilation, nervous dyspepsia —usually called nervous indigestion —
anemia, and anorexia.
Dose of the tincture, 10 to 40 drops in water 3 or 4 times a day
or more frequently according to symptoms.
Dosage: Tincture Serpentaris alone, 1 to 20 drops in water as
indicated.
While the infusion has been extensively used as a household
remedy in districts where the plant is plentiful and the services of a
physician not always available, it should be prescribed only by a
physician when available.
VIRGINIA SNAKEROOT
Aristolochia serpentaria
Common names : Red River Snakeroot, Texas Snakeroot, Sangrel,
Sangree Root.
Virginia Snakeroot is stimulating to the mucous membrane
throughout, but should be given only in small doses. In languid and
sluggish conditions of the organism, it activates promptly and fully,
and for this reason it is valuable in confinement cases when the feet
are cold and there is a general receding of the blood from the surface.
THE NATURA PHYSICIAN'S ARMAMENTARIUM 117
In eruptive diseases, before the appearance of the full eruption,
it is excellent in small doses in hot water. In these cases it will do
well combined with Burdock :
Tincture of Virginia Snakeroot (Aristolochio serpentaria) 1 to 20 drops
Tincture of Burdock (Arctium Lappa) 10 to 30 drops
In warm water every few hours until free eruptions.
Serpentaria's influence is primarily to induce blood circulation
toward the surface, but soon its influence is felt by the whole arterial
system, and the heart's impulse becomes stronger and fuller. By its
stimulating action upon the arterial circulation, the whole nervous
system is aroused through its influence. Even the uterus feels the
effect, and its use is valuable for the relief of menstruation suppressed
by colds. In these cases, 5 to 10 drops of the tincture is more effective
given in hot Pennyroyal tea.
Cold preparations, whether of the infusion or the tincture in
cold water, will favorably influence action of the kidneys and relieve
congestion and renal torpor.
WHITE COHOSH
Actaea alba
A woman's remedy. A nervine and dependable emmenagogue
in the hand of a capable physician.
Indicated in the treatment of nervous, asthenic women. Its
strongest affect is upon pelvice plexus in the treatment of amenor
rhea, dysmenorrhea, and ovarian cramps or spasms, relieving pelvic
congestion and irritation.
It is well combined with :
Tincture of Blue Cohosh (Caulophyllum thalictroides) 2 to 5 drops
Tincture of Black Cohosh (Cimicifuga racemosa) 1 to 10 drops
Tincture of Squaw Weed (Senecio aureus) 3 to S drops
Tincture of Black Haw (Viburnum opulus) 5 to 10 drops
Tincture of White Cohosh (Actea alba) 1 to S drops
In water every 2 to 4 hours depending on condition.
Dosage : Tincture of Actea alone, 2 to 5 drops as frequently as
required.
118 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
Specifically: Actea is especially indicated in chorea, hysteria,
emotional irritability, mental depression, neurotic tendencies, and
especially so when due to menstrual irregularities.
WITCH HAZEL
Hamamelis virginiana
Common name: Winterbloom, Snapping Hazelnut, Spotted
Alder.
Witch Hazel is another of the ageless household or domestic
remedies said to have been used by the Indians for various irrita
tions (for which it is still best known). The non-alcoholic prepara
tion is now easily obtainable and is most satisfactorily used for
this purpose.
The infusion is the most valuable in hemoptysis, hematemesis,
and other forms of bleeding, as well as in diarrhea, dysentery, and
excessive mucous discharge. It is of value also in incipient tubercu
losis. However, when the fresh herb is not obtainable, then the
tincture (non-alcoholic when obtainable) is satisfactory and may be
given in cold or hot water according to the symptoms. There is hardly
an inflamed condition, internally or externally, where it may not be
prescribed with benefit. In sore mouth, inflamed eyes, burns and
bruises it is equally soothing.
With Hops or Flaxseed the herb may be made into a poultice
for external inflammations, swellings, and tumors of a painful char
acter.
An ointment made with lard and Witch Hazel, White Oak
Bark, and Apple Tree Bark, ground Horse Chestnuts, together with
burnt cork is excellent in the treatment of hemorrhoids.
It may be applied full strength to painful tumors, external in
flammation of prolapsus ani and uteri, leukorrhea, gleet, and ophthal
mia. As an enema in the treatment of dysentery and diarrhea. When
the rectum and large bowel are inflamed, nothing will bring the quick
relief that witch hazel and cold water will.
Witch Hazel is of much value in the treatment of children's
various "summer complaints." Dosage: 5 to 30 drops of the tinc
ture in water as often as indicated.
THE NATURA PHYSICIAN'S ARMAMENTARIUM 119
A simple soothing toning agent is composed of:
Tincture of Witch Hazel (Hamamelis virginiana) 10 to 40 drops
Tincture of Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) 5 to 40 drops
Tincture of Raspberry (Rubus Idaeus) 5 to 40 drops
In water. This allays nausea, sustains the nervous system, tones
the mucous membranes, splendid in chronic or acute dysentery and
diarrhea, reduces all urinary inflammation, and is frequently a cure
for gleet.
Dosage : Tincture of Witch Hazel alone, 10 to 60 drops in cold
water as often as necessary.
9.
THE MEDICINES OF OUR FOREFATHERS
The agents listed were the medicines of our forefathers, many
of whom had no other source of treatment.
Among the best known and most effective were those first known
by the Indians. In turn, the early physicians learned of them, and
they became part of their medical practice.
A great many of these agents continue to be used regularly by
liberal physicians who still adhere to the practice with the medicines
of nature, God-given and God-commanded NATURE'S HEALING
AGENTS ; an increasing number who had changed to chemical agents
are returning to their use, and they are being increasingly used as
family remedies.
The preparation of infusions and dosages of tinctures is given
and, in some instances, the combinations of herbs for infusions.
BARBERRY
Berberis Vulgaris
The liver and spleen remedy as well a blood disease and tubercu
losis remedy.
Berberis is indicated in the chronic ills of the stomach and the
early stages of tuberculosis. It also is frequently prescribed in the
catarrhal conditions of the bronchial tubes.
It is well employed as a tonic in all debilitated conditions, con
valescence from serious ailments, and in various skin diseases due to
digestive disturbances. It combines well with almost all agents for
the treatment or relief of liver and spleen ailments, especially with
Hydrastis and Chionanthus.
Best given in the tincture, 5 to 10 drops before meals.
120
THE MEDICINES OF OUR FOREFATHERS 121
BAELEY
Hordeum distichon
Barley, known to practically everyone as a food of value, is also
a remedial agent in that it is a demulcent and indicated in the relief
of practically all stomach and intestinal irritations. Due to the large
content of sodium in barley, it is of much value in the diet of those
sufferng from rheumatism and arthritis by keeping the calcium in
solution.
The green sprouts of barley are rich in many mineral elements
and with the sprouts of alfalfa offer organic elements essential to
health.
Barley, soaked for 8 hours before, added to boiled vegetables
should become part of all vegetable soups.
In acidity and inflammation of the mucous membrane of the
digestive system, barley water as part of warm milk and beaten egg
white gives excellent service. This combination is also indicated in
dysentery and diarrhoea. Barley water should be used instead of
plain water and mixed with the milk in infant feeding or where there
is stomach or intestinal irritation indicated by constant eructions,
dysentery, and diarrhoea.
BLACK CURRANT LEAVES
Ribes nigrum
Common name: Quinsy Berry. Squinancy Berry.
The whooping cough remedy. Of much value in various forms
of catarrh. Effective as a diuretic.
Generally used as an infusion. One teaspoon of the powdered
leaves in a cup of boiling water, steeped for one-half hour, 3 or 4
cups a day. It is well to combine it with other agents for the same
conditions.
BLUEBERRIES
Vaccinium Myrtillus
Common names: Bilberry, Whortleberry, Burren Myrtle.
The family diabetic remedy. The Blueberry known throughout
many states in America is an astringent. The infusion made with
122 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
Blueberry leaves has been a household remedy wherever the Blue
berry plant is known. Many diabetic sufferers, who have reached
the stage where insulin is necessary, continue to take this infusion.
Unfortunately no cure for the disease has yet been found once
the disease has advanced to a condition where insulin is necessary,
although the claims of cure are many as a result of taking Blueberry
infusion before the disease had advanced to the insulin stage.
In diabetes the diet must be most carefully selected and strictly
adhered to. a single infraction may prove to be fatal.
The infusion is made by steeping a teaspoon of the leaves in a
cup of boiling water for one-half hour, strain, and it is ready to drink,
2 or more cups a day. May be taken with meals instead of coffee or tea.
Dose of tincture 20 to 40 drops.
CAROID
Pawpain
Pawpain, made from the papaya or pawpaw fruit, is an ideal
digestive agent in the digestion of proteins, the casein of milk and milk
products, and starches. The difference between Caroid and Pepsin is
in the fact that pepsin is active only in an acid field, while Caroid acts
in almost any field.
Caroid is indicated in all conditions where there is a deficiency
of the enzyme.
It is of much value as pretreatment for abscesses, erosions and
also ulcers.
Caroid is of much importance where there is a digestive dis
turbance and an interference with assimilation of food in artificial
feeding of infants. It should be mixed with milk or given after feed
ing with other foods.
COLTSFOOT
Tussilago Farfara
Common names: Coughwort, Foalswort, Horsehoof, Horsefoot,
Bull's Foot.
Used in all cases of acute or chronic cough where more or less
THE MEDICINES OF OUR FOREFATHERS 123
phlegm is raised. An infusion made of coltsfoot leaves, flowers, and/or
roots is generally effective. It is best combined with linden flowers in
equal parts.
Whenever there is an indication of physical decline from a known
or unknown cause, this tea, infusion, or tincture is of much value.
Coltsfoot, alone or in combination with linden flowers, one-half
teaspoon of each steeped in a cup of hot water for one-half hour,
drink when cold 3 or more times a day.
The tincture may be used instead of the infusion : dose 15 to 60
drops 3 or more times a day.
COMFREY
Symphytum officinale
A people's remedy for many ailments, Comfrey has long been
used as a home or household remedy. In later years the Eclectic
School added it to their list of medications, which differed widely
from the purposes for which it is now used empirically.
Comfrey is a soothing demulcent, and a gently stimulating tonic
to the mucous membrane, especially of the respiratory organs. It is
useful in allaying irritations, increasing expectoration and as a tonic
for the bronchial tubes. Useful in colds and coughs, it should be com
bined with other agents such as Wild Cherry, Horehound and Race-
mosa. In domestic use one ounce of Comfrey was boiled for a few
minutes, strained, and either sugar or honey (preferred) added to
form a syrup. If to be kept for a period of time, good brandy was
added.
It is a possibility that the increasing use and benefit from Comfrey
is that it is very rich in easily assimilated organic calcium.
Next to Lobelia, Comfrey is one of the most controversial of all
healing agents. Unofficially, it has long been accepted as of great
value as a soothing demulcent, a gentle stimulant to the mucous mem
brane, to allay irritation of the respiratory organs and increase ex
pectoration, and a tonic to the bronchial tubes. It is useful in colds
and coughs, especially if combined in an infusion with baked onion
juice, sweetened with honey, and taken as warm as possible.
124 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
These virtues are generally granted it by all Natura and many
physicians of the various schools. To its converts, and there are
thousands of them, it is a miracle plant. The relief it has brought in
various instances are well authenticated. One thing is certain, it is
harmless, and in many instances in which it has brought relief, it was
taken or used as a last resource.
Of late years the agent has become respectable, and a reason
found for its generally accepted virtue by physicians and laity who
have used it or prescribed it is due in part to the discovery that it con
tains an active principle known as Allantoin.
Its proponents or converts become so by what it has done for
them. In chronic sores of various types, a poultice made of either the
crushed green plant or the powder of the plant has effected elimina
tion of the sores within a short period of time in which all other agents
and procedures had failed.
In general Natura practice, Comfrey has been successfully used
in ailments diagnosed as arthritis, gall stones, stomach conditions,
asthma, and other diametrically different conditions.
These are numerous uncontradicted reports of lung cancer cured
where all other means had failed and in which the sole treatment con
sisted of infusions made from the whole green plant and, even in some
instances, of infusion made from the powder of the entire plant.
There are reports of acute cases of ulcerated tonsils with a high
temperature present in which infusions of the green plant given fre
quently —poultices of the dry powder placed about the throat —re
sponded to the treatment within a short period of time.
The infusion has been given successfully in severe liver and
stomach conditions in which other forms of treatment reportedly failed.
Comfrey either in the tincture or infusion is given for the purpose
of cleansing the entire system of impurities and establishing a normal
condition.
The dosage of the tincture is 5 to 20 drops 4 times a day.
Infusion is made out of either the entire fresh plant or the powder
of the entire plant, 1 teaspoon steeped in a cup of hot water for one-
half hour, stir frequently, take 4 times a day.
Although Comfrey, as a remedial agent, is highly controversial,
those who have suffered from ailments (wholly different in nature
which had resisted all manner of treatment) are legion and these are
THE MEDICINES OF OUR FOREFATHERS 125
firmly convinced of its virtue even in the case of various forms of
cancer.
DANDELION
Leontodon taraxacum
Common names : Blow Ball, Cankerwort.
Dandelion root is essentially a household remedy. It is a stomach
tonic possessing slightly diuretic and aperient action.
Dandelion has a beneficial influence upon the biliary organs,
removing torpor and engorgement of the liver as well as of the spleen,
and will do best when combined with Hydrastis and Chionanthus.
It is of benefit in dropsy when due to inertia of the abdominal
organs and also in uterine obstructions. In chronic skin diseases it
is always indicated.
Dandelion root cut up and dried is used for coffee by innumerable
people. From a health point of view, it is a more desirable drink than
coffee or tea. For this purpose it is frequently combined with roasted
acorns and roasted rye in equal parts, or according to taste. As a
vegetable for salads, it has no equal being rich in many minerals. It
is a medical-vegetable plant.
Dose tincture: 5 to 40 drops.
For infusion, fill a cup with the green leaves, add boiling water,
steep one-half hour or longer. Drink when cold, 3 or 4 times a day.
Or add a teaspoon of the cut or powdered root to a cup of boiling
water, and steep one-half hour. Drink when cold, 3 times a day.
DWARF ELDER
Sambucus Ebulus
Common names: Wild Elder, Danewort, Walewort.
Dwarf Elder was long considered and used in the treatment of
dropsy. It was also used—and still is—for abdominal disturbances,
and it is considered effective in the elimination of effete material
through the kidneys.
Infusion is made by steeping a teaspoon of powdered root in a
126 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
cup of hot water for one-half hour, divide into 3 doses, one portion
every 4 hours.
The tincture of Dwarf Elder may be substituted for the infusion.
Dose 3 to 15 drops.
An ointment, made with either the infusion or tincture and melted
lard, has long been a family remedy for burns and scalding.
EYEBRIGHT
Euphrasia officinalis
Common name: Eyebright (Euphrasia).
The inflamed eye remedy. To be used in combination with fennel.
An infusion of 1 teaspoon of Eyebright in a cup of boiling water, steep
one-half hour, strain carefully, and use for eye wash. Cold compresses
of eyebright may be used to cover the eyes.
Infusion of Eyebright, made in same manner, is frequently used
in nasal congestion, catarrh, cough, hoarseness, and earache and head
ache associated with a cold. The infusion for this purpose is made in
the manner stated.
The tincture, 15 to 40 drops every 3 to 4 hours, may be used
instead of the infusion.
FENNEL
Foeniculum vulgare
Common names: Wild Fennel, Sweet Fennel, Large Fennel.
Called the wind colic remedy —mother's friend. No agent has
proven so effective and reliable in a mother's hand for the relief for
wind colic in babies as fennel.
To use, the seed may be bought and kept on reserve for instant
use. One teaspoon is added to a cup of milk and boiled slowly for a
few minutes, strain, and let cool, then drink. In severe attacks an
infusion may be made of the seed, and a compress placed over the
stomach.
The seed of Fennel made into an infusion has long been used as
THE MEDICINES OF OUR FOREFATHERS 127
an eyewash. For this purpose it is best combined with Eyebright and
eyes washed with it 3 or 4 times a day.
Dosage of Fennel, 10 to 30 or more drops in warm water accord
ing to age as required.
FLAXSEED (LINSEED)
Linum usitatissimum
Flaxseed is too well-known for too long a time to need descrip
tion. It is the ideal base for all poultices and compresses when applied
as hot as the patient can bear it. Keep warm with hot water bottle or
electric pad. Any form of herbal medication may be combined with it.
GINGER
Zingiber officinale
Zingiber is an almost universal agent, almost too well-known to
require description. It is a domestic or household remedy.
It is excellent for children's colics and cramps, and expelling gas.
It is of much value in the beginning of colds by quickly sending the
blood to the surface. Its prompt use will frequently avert pneumonia
and other serious developing maladies.
A pleasant and almost universial way to prepare it is to mix
thoroughly one-half teaspoon of pulverized ginger with a teaspoon or
more of honey, pouring over it a cup of boiling water. Adults prefer
to add an ounce or more of good brandy or other liquor and retire.
If tincture is used, 15 or more drops (warm) depending on age.
In the onset of pneumonia or pleurisy a combination of :
Tincture of Ginger (Zingiber officinale) 10 to 40 drops
Tincture of Pleurisy Root (Ascleptias tubcrosa) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Cayenne Pepper (Capsicum frutescens) 2 to 3 drops
In hot water, depending on age and condition, every 3 to 4 hours.
Zingiber may be used as the base to almost every other agent in
the onset of chills and cold. In earlier days, and even today in remote
places where the services of a physician are not easily obtained, families
128 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
prepare a syrup of Ginger by adding 6 drams of the tincture to a pint
of simple syrup in readiness for the onset of chills or colds by members
of the family, or by having the Thomsonian preparations in the medi
cine closet.
HEMLOCK CONIUM MACULATUM
Abies canadensis
Common names : Hemlock spruce, Pinus bark.
Hemlock is an astringent, stimulant, and antiseptic. It has long
been used in the treatment of simple inflammation, skin afflictions, and
ulcerations.
Abies alone or combined with other agents for the treatment of
rhinitis, pharyngitis when tenacious mucus secretions are present, and
usually effective in tonsilitis.
The infusion or tincture of Hemlock is very helpful when used as
a douche or on tampons in the treatment of vaginitis, leucorrhea, and
cervical erosions.
Infusion is made by adding 3 tablespoons of the leaves to 6 ounces
of boiling water, steep one-half hour, strain, 1 teaspoon every 2 or 3
hours.
Dose of tincture, 5 to 10 drops. Hemlock should be used with
much caution.
Hemlock is one of the most important ingredients in the original
Thomsonian No. 3 and is best used in that manner when its use is
indicated.
JUNIPER BERRIES
Juniperus communis
Juniper Berries, generally in infusion, has long been a family
remedy as a diuretic. It is indicated when there is irritation of the
urinary passage or when the kidneys do not function properly.
It was—and still is—much employed in dropsical conditions
where it is best used in small doses. Small doses reduce irritation,
while large doses may increase it. It is counter-indicated in neuritis.
THE MEDICINES OF OUR FOREFATHERS 129
To make an infusion, the berries are generally prepared by
macerating (softening by soaking) several tablespoons of the berries,
then adding them to a pint of boiling water for one-half hour or more,
cool, and this is divided into four portions, taken morning, noon, after
noon, and evening.
Dose of the tincture 10 to 30 drops.
KNOTGRASS
Polygonum aviculare
Common names: Beggarweed, Pigweed, Red Robin. Better
known as Wiregrass, the curse of gardeners.
It has been and still is used as an astringent and diuretic, but
more especially as a gravel remedy.
Its main influence is on the bladder not only to help remove
small stones but to prevent their formation. The family use was
mostly for this purpose. In making an infusion it is best combined
with Shave Grass, also a gravel remedy, in equal parts.
To make an infusion, add a teaspoon of Knotgrass into a cup of
boiling water, steep one-half hour. When cold, take 1 cup 2 or 3 times
a day. If Shave Grass is added, use 1 teaspoon of each in a pint of
water, divide into two portions.
Dose of tincture of Knotgrass, or combination, 15 to 30 drops in
plenty of water 3 or more times a day.
LINDEN FLOWERS
Tilia Europaea
Common name: Lime Tree, Common Lime.
The chronic cough remedy. An infusion made of Linden Flower
leaves will help remove mucus from the lungs and trachea, and prove
of much value in bronchial catarrh. For this purpose it is best com
bined with Coltsfoot.
The infusion will also flush the kidneys of mucus when present
and avoid the development of serious abdominal conditions.
The infusion is made with 1 teaspoon of the leaves in hot water,
130 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
steep one-half hour, permit to cool, and drink. This may be done as
frequently as necessary.
Tilia may be given in the tincture; 15 to 40 drops as indicated
by conditions.
MAYFLOWER
Pulsatilla Nigricans
The woman's remedy and the Neurasthenic's remedy.
Pulsatilla is an ideal agent in all complaints having their origin
in an abnormal, abused or unbalanced generative system. Its indi
cations are varied : fear of impending dangers, unrest, looking on the
dark side of everything, melancholia, gastric disturbances, morning
sickness, and eructions after eating, flatulent colic, and abnormalities
of menstrual period, including pain in the small of the back. Best
given only in the tincture, 1 to 2 drops, 3 times a day. MUST BE
TAKEN CAUTIOUSLY. WHEN POSSIBLE, UNDER THE
SUPERVISION OF A PHYSICIAN.
Pulsatilla may be truthfully called the neurotic remedy. The
Natura physician would not practice without it.
MILKWORT
Polygala vulgaris
Common name : Rogation Flower, Gang Flower.
The milk or lactation remedy. Milkwort is generally used in
conjunction with Mitchella. Women approaching motherhood who
have the normal desire to suckle their child, and who want to be cer
tain they have sufficient milk for the purpose ; or who find their milk
supply diminishing should make an infusion of a combination of
Squaw Vine and Milkwort, a teaspoon of each added to a pint of hot
water, steeped for 30 minutes, cool. A tablespoon every few hours.
Today the tincture is more desirable, 9 or more drops of Polygala
every 4 hours, or 15 drops of the combined tinctures.
THE MEDICINES OF OUR FOREFATHERS 131
MULLEIN, GREAT
Verbascum thapsus
Common names: Velvet Dock, Velvet Plant, Flannel Leaf.
Verbascum is a demulcent, diuretic, anodyne, and antispasmodic.
It is a winter remedy and is much used in affections of the throat,
catarrh, mucus on the chest, and shortness of breath.
In earlier times, the dried flowers were boiled in milk (a table
spoon of the powdered flowers to a pint of milk), cooled and a table
spoon taken every few hours, or as necessary. It is made now gener
ally with boiling water instead of milk.
For colds in the chest, make a compress by boiling the flowers
in vinegar for 15 minutes, adding 8 to 12 drops to the infusion, placing
it over the chest and keeping it warm by a hot water bottle or an
electric pad, changing every 3 to 5 hours.
Dosage of the tincture, 15 to 40 drops in warm water every 2
to 4 hours according to condition.
A very early German remedy used in deafness as a result of
dried ear wax, wax too soft or insufficient, is Mullein oil, sun dis
tilled from green Mullein flowers, 3 to 5 drops twice a day, until the
condition is corrected.
OAK BARK
Quercus robur
Common name: Tanner's Bark. Although the white oak bark
made into an infusion was best known as a goitre remedy, it was
(still is) used more often in ailments of the stomach, the elimination
of mucus, general dyspepsia, normalization of the liver and spleen,
and as a diuretic.
The infusion is made by steeping a tablespoon of the powdered
bark in a pint of hot water for one-half hour, let cool and strain.
Dose : 1 or 2 ounces every few hours. Tincture : 5 to 10 drops every
four hours to be taken with caution. In general practice, it is usually
combined with thyroid and other agents.
For other conditions, a tablespoon of the infusion is taken
between each meal, or a coffee made of the roasted acorns with meals.
132 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
OATS AND OAT BEARDS
Avena sativa
Common names: Groat. One of the best natural tonics long
used as a family remedy is an infusion made with oat beards, or in
its place the tincture of oats. So general was this opinion of oats
that it gave rise to the expression "he is feeling his oats" when speak
ing of a spirited horse who had been fed oats.
Avena sativa, as well as the tea made from the oat beards, has
long been recognized by people as a naturalizer to the sexual system.
The tea is made by steeping a teaspoon of the beards in a cup of
hot water, for 5 or more minutes, strain, and if desired add cream and
a sweetener (sugar or honey) and drink with meals. An infusion made
in the same way but steeped for a longer time may be taken 3 times
a day.
A tea or infusion long used by women to retain their youth after
their thirty-fifth birthday was made into a coffee-like drink by com
bining oat beards, roasted acorns, and chicory, in equal proportions,
and drunk with their meals instead of tea or coffee.
Dose of the tincture, Avena Saliva, 10 to 20 drops, 3 times a day.
ONION
Allium cepa
The lowly pungent onion, possibly the most used in former times
of all family remedies, is still much used in country districts and even
in cities by mothers who were taught its virtues in their childhood.
The onion is a stimulant, diuretic, and expectorant, and it is
extremely useful in colds, coughs, and croup in children; and when
properly prepared, also in colds and coughs in older people.
In former times when wood and coal stoves were in use, onions
were placed in the compartment of the stove which led from the fire
place to the chimney. They were left there until thoroughly soft,
then mashed so the juice could easily be squeezed out of it. Honey
was added to this onion juice, and given in teaspoon doses every one-
half hour or oftener as necessary.
In cases where there is an indication that the lungs might be
THE MEDICINES OF OUR FOREFATHERS 133
affected, a poultice of baked onions should be placed over the lungs
and kept warm by means of a hot water bottle or electric pad.
Onions may be baked in the oven though they do not appear to
be as effective in releasing the valuable juice as was the former means.
Any other medication may be combined with the onion juice but
is best given between the juice doses.
Many parents in country distrcts believe this onion-honey treat
ment more effective and dependable than any medical treatment.
PENNYROYAL, AMERICAN
Mentha pulegium
Common names: Tickweed, Squawweed.
An age-old domestic family remedy, formerly known to almost
every woman, was gathered when in bloom, dried and kept for use
until the next gathering.
Pennyroyal is an aromatic, stimulating, and relaxing diaphoretic,
most pleasant to taste. In hot infusion or tincture in hot water, it has
always been popular as a remedy for breaking up colds readily, and
can be freely given to children of all ages. It is also a remedy for
the menstrual flow when it is retarded by congestion or colds.
Although a diaphoretic it is also an antispasmodic nervine and often
found of much value in dysmenorrhoea in nervous women and
in hysteria.
In hot infusion or tincture in hot water, it is a valuable agent
in the eruptive diseases of children and can be freely given.
The hot infusion or tincture in hot water is an excellent agent
in colic, flatulence, restlessness, and peevishness in children, as well
as in nervousness and feverishness in childhood complaints. When
ever there is either a cold or a temperature, it should be freely given
as an agent with which to combine other and stronger agents, especi
ally such as Pleurisy Root and Scullcap.
Locally, Pennroyal has long been used in hot fomentation to
relieve congestions, mixed with Lobelia or other agents, whether of
heart, lungs, stomach, uterus, bladder, or kidneys.
134 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
The tea or infusion may be given freely ; it being non-poisonous
and non-toxic. Dose of tincture, 20 to 60 drops as indicated. For
children it is best given in small doses in hot water frequently.
PRICKLY ASH
Xanthoxylum Americanum
Prickly Ash is of the nature of Capsicum. Where continued
effects are desired, a small amount of Capsicum should be added to it.
The bark, the leaves, and the berries are of almost equal potency,
although the leaves lend themselves more readily to infusions.
Prickly Ash is a splendid innocent agent in stomach disorders,
particularly indicated where digestion is slow, permitting fermentation
and the formation of gas. Where the tincture is not to be obtained,
infusions taken warm are effective. Effectiveness may be increased
by the addition of Hydrastis and Capsicum best given shortly before
meals.
In most cases of illness where there is a deficiency of secretions,
dryness of mouth and feces, uterine cramps, and colic, Prickly Ash
is a splendid agent.
In chronic cases it may be used where there is lack of hepatic
and pancreatic activity, chronic muscular rheumatism, lumbago,
scrofula, and temporary paralysis.
In acute conditions, it gives best results in warm infusions, one-
half teaspoon of the powdered leaves or bark steeped one-half hour
in hot water and strained, take every 3 hours.
In chronic digestive intestinal conditions the infusion or the
tincture may be given, Zanthoxylum, in doses of 5 to 10 drops: in
combination, 3 drops of Hydrastis and 1 drop of Capsicum, always in
warm water for quick action.
In syphilis, scrofula, and like ailments, the tincture is more
desirable than the infusion, 15 drops with the addition of Pytholacca,
5 drops.
In rheumatism, arthritis, paralysis, and like ailments, 20 drops of
the tincture with the addition of 5 drops of tincture of Pytholacca is
indicated.
The greatest usefulness of Prickly Ash is in atonic stomach and
intestinal conditions and is combined with Hydrastis and Capsicum.
THE MEDICINES OF OUR FOREFATHERS 135
PRIMROSE
Primula vulgaris
Common names : Butter Rose, English Cowslip.
This is almost a legendary remedy in the treatment of articular
rheumatism, first used—and still much used—as an infusion and later
in tincture form. The infusion appears to be more effective. For
best results, an equal portion of Motherwort is combined with
Primrose.
This is prepared by adding a teaspoon of each to a pint of water,
boil slowly to half the amount. Cool, strain, divide into three por
tions —one portion before each meal. This combination is of much
benefit also for headaches due to a stomach condition. The prepara
tion MUST be made fresh daily. This is actually best with all infu
sions unless alcohol is added, or made into a syrup.
Dosage of tincture, 5 to 20 drops, 3 or 4 times a day depending
on condition.
ROSEMARY
Rosemarinus officinalis
Freely used in all instances where there is a torpid condition of
the liver and a predisposition toward dropsy. It is equally indicated
in all conditions where there is congestion of the system with morbid
matter, as indicated by frequent colds.
Rosemary tea, best combined with Sassafras root, has long been
used as the ideal fall and spring cleaner in place of the age-old sulphur
and molasses combination.
Infusion of either, or both in combination, is best for the pur
pose: 1 teaspoon each steeped in a cup of boiling water for one-half
hour, 1 tablespoon divided into 3 parts.
Dose of the tincture of Rosemary, 10 to 20 drops. Of the combi
nation of Rosemary and Sassafras, 14 to 30 drops in water 3 times a
day for a month as a systemic cleanser.
136 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
SAGE
Salvia officinala
The night-sweat remedy. Sage is a natural astringent and may
be freely used without danger. In fevers it should be given in cold
infusions as a substitute for the fruit juices now so generally given.
Salvia is of much value in liver and kidney conditions, but it is
best combined with Rosemary and Motherwort : An infusion is made
of 2 tablespoons Sage ; 1 tablespoon Rosemary Rosenarinus, one-half
tablespoonful of Motherwort Leonurus. Steep in 1 pint of water for
one-half hour, and strain. Dose : 1 teaspoon before meals.
In stomach complaints combine 2 parts Sage with one-fourth
part Goldenseal and one-half part of Yellow Gentian. Two ounces of
this mixture should be steeped in a pint of water for one-half hour.
Dose: 1 tablespoon before meals.
Sage used alone for night sweats is best made into an infusion.
Use two teaspoons in a pint of boiling water, steep an hour, drain,
and when cold, take 1 tablespoon every hour or two until sweats are
overcome. Any medication for fever may be combined with it.
Dosage: Tincture of Sage, 15 to 40 drops, 3 or 4 times a day.
ST. JOHN'S WORT
Hypericum perforatum
The family remedy to overcome bedwetting. For this purpose
a tea is made with one-half teaspoon of leaves and flowers of the
herb steeped for an hour and taken regularly each evening before
retiring.
St. John's Wort picked when in full bloom and used either fresh
or dried as a tea or infusion was a favorite remedy for stomach
ailments. Especially for the fathers of the family! They placed a
goodly portion of the herb in a quart bottle, filled it with whiskey,
and set it aside for use. One tablespoon as required. Yellow Gentian,
one part to every four parts of St. John's Wort was added to either
tea or whiskey, when taken as a liver corrector.
THE MEDICINES OF OUR FOREFATHERS 137
SILVERWEED
Potentilla anserina
Common names: Silvery Cinquefoil, Cramp Weed, Goose
Tansy, Moot Grass.
Tetanus is a dangerous condition, and there is need for the
immediate services of a physician. However, throughout time includ
ing the present, where in outlying rural districts, it is impossible to
secure the services of a physician when there is an immediate need.
Under these circumstances many families stored a supply of Silver-
weed for emergency need.
A teaspoon of the powdered weed is boiled, either in water or
milk ( 10 minutes in water, less in milk), and this given every hour or
oftener in combination with 10 or more drops of Lobelia. In con
junction, the body should be immersed in water as hot as can be
borne until it relaxes. The wound should be cauterized and kept clean
by the frequent use of strong undiluted antiseptics.
Dosage of tincture: 15 to 40 drops in water every 1 or 2 hours.
STRAWBERRY LEAVES
Frageria vesca
Fragaria americana
The Eczema remedy. The medicinal content in Strawberry
Leaves is an excellent blood purifier ; and their special influence has
always been considered by users of Nature's remedies as possessing
special effectiveness on that class of bodily poisons which causes a
chronic or acute irritation of the skin and is generally known as
Eczema.
To be most effective it should be combined with equal parts of
Dandelion {Taraxacum) and Burdock, and just enough Rhubarb
(Rheum) to assure regular bowel evacuation.
The infusion is made with 1 teaspoon each of Strawberry Leaves
and Dandelion root and one-half teaspoon of Rhubarb and Burdock
steeped in a pint of hot water for one-half hour; strain, and when
cold add small amount of brandy to prevent fermentation. Dose:
138 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
1 tablespoon 3 or 4 times a day. If the Rhubarb content acts too
drastically, the amount is to be reduced.
Dosage of the tincture Fragaria, 5 to 15 drops in water 3 times
a day.
SUMACH
Rhus Glabra
Rhus Blabrum
Common names: Smooth Sumach, Scarlet Sumach.
Sumach is rather a family or domestic remedy than a physician's
agent. It is still used extensively in country districts and requests
for instructions for its preparation and use are frequent.
Sumach is a composite agent. The berries are diuretic, the bark
is astringent and antiseptic.
It is a splendid agent, a demulcent, in all conditions where the
mucous membranes are in an irritated condition as in dysentery, as
well as when the urine is scalding the urinary passage.
The bark is a most stimulating astringent and toning agent,
valuable in leucorrhoea, rectal conditions, chronic diarrhea, and rectal
hemorrhages. In inflammation of the bladder the fresh leaves or
berries are best used in an infusion, and will usually give prompt
relief. Sumach is frequently used in scrofula.
The leaves and bark are best made into an infusion, a teaspoon
of either or one-half portion of each in a cup of boiling water. Steep
half an hour ; when cold take 2 or more cups a day.
A syrup may be made with the berries by covering them with
boiling water, steep for an hour, strain and add honey, boil into a
syrup, and bottle for future use.
The infusion is much used in combination with Blueberry leaves
(equal parts) in diabetes.
For summer diarrhea and dysentery, Blackberry (equal parts)
should be added in making the syrup.
The syrup may also be made from the bark and fresh leaves.
Instead of honey, a sufficient amount of good brandy is added to pre
vent it from fermenting. However, the infusion is best for quick
results. In acute cases the syrup should be taken in hot water.
Dose of tincture, 10 to 20 drops.
THE MEDICINES OF OUR FOREFATHERS 139
SWEET FLAG
Acorus Calamus
Common names: Myrtle Flag, Sweet Grass, Calamus, Sweet
Sedge.
The ancient water-brash (watery eruction) remedy. When
everything tried fails to stop the eruction of the burning water from
the stomach into the throat, Calamus will generally do it. Those
suffering from this condition should collect the root during the sum
mer or fall, cut it into small pieces and dry (or obtain it from herb
house) to have on hand when required. A small piece chewed and
the juice swallowed will offer prompt relief. In many instances those
suffering from stomach discomfort from some unknown reason will
find Calamus a remedy by chewing it several times a day. Where
attacks of waterbrash are frequent, tincture Hydrastis, Golden Seal,
5 to 10 drops in water should be taken in addition before meals.
Children suffering continually from gas in the stomach should
be given a weak tea of it at regular intervals. It is an innocent, effec
tive remedy.
Sweet Flag is of great help in the treatment of scrofula —a
legendary disease dating from the time of the Egyptians—and should
be included with other agents for the treatment of this condition.
Dosage : Tincture of Calamus, 10 to 40 drops in water accord
ing to age and severity of condition.
TANSY
Tanacetum vulgare
Common names : Arbor Vitae, Yellow Cedar.
Tansy was once a household remedy possessed of virtue as well
as a vice (if an herb may be thought of as possessing a vice). Many
have thought of it only as a means to cause abortion. It is certain that
pregnant women should not use it. It is also an irritant and narcotic,
and in improper dosage is to be avoided and condemned.
Tansy is an extremely bitter tonic. A weak tea made of the herb
or small doses of the tincture is excellent for hysteria and also in the
relief of the suppression of menses due to causes other than pregnancy.
140 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
It has been much used as a family medicine and by Natura phy
sicians to strengthen weak veins and kidneys, and is of benefit in
strangury. When given as a cold infusion, it is a tonic and an aid to
digestion.
Tansy had—and still has—a place in the family medicine chest
when it is difficult to obtain the services of a physician.
Dose of the tincture is from 5 to 10 drops ; the larger dose only
in extreme cases of hysteria and suppression of the menses due to
causes other than pregnancy.
Although considered a "family" medicine, it is best taken only
under the care of a physician or in emergencies.
Infusion : One teaspoon of Tansy steeped in a pint of boiling
water for one-half hour ; one teaspoon every 3 hours.
TORMENTIL
Potentilla Tormentilla
The roots of Tormentilla are a mild stimulating astringent. It
favorably influences the alvine mucous membrane and is of benefit
in ordinary diarrhoea and mild hemorrhages. In domestic medicine
it is chiefly known as a sex remedy. Like Scurvy Grass it was
employed by the country people as a remedy in acute sex diseases
such as gonorrhoea. It is used in the same manner as Scurvy Grass
or in combination with it. Today there are much more effective
remedies for this disease.
It is still much used, and effectively, by women as a douche for
the "whites" (fluor albus), because it is a natural cleanser. An infu
sion is made by steeping a tablespoon in a quart of water for 30 or
more minutes ; strain, and use while still slightly warm.
VERVAIN, EUROPEAN
Verbena officinalis
Vervain has long been used as a family whooping cough remedy.
The roots of vervain are combined with Violet Bloom (often called
THE MEDICINES OF OUR FOREFATHERS 141
Bittersweet) in equal parts, and 1 teaspoon of the mixture steeped
in a pint of boiling water for 30 minutes, strained, and a teaspoon
given frequently to control the spasms. Elimination must be kept free.
Dosage of tincture Vervain, 20 to 40 drops in water as fre
quently as necessary.
SWEET VIOLET
Violet odorata
Like Vervain root the leaves of the fragrant Violet have an
effective influence on controlling whooping cough as well as other
coughs, especially when accompanied with shortness of breath. It is
well combined with Vervain root in equal parts for an infusion, 1
tablespoon of the mixture steeped in a pint of boiling water, strained,
and one tablespoon taken frequently.
Coltsfoot, Vervain, and Violet in equal part, may also be com
bined for an infusion and given in the same manner.
WATERCRESS
Nasturtium officinale
Watercress as an infusion was long used as an effective blood
purifier and given frequently. Since it has become elevated to a
delicious and desirable vegetable or garnish, it is best used by eating
the fresh Watercress. For this purpose it must be eaten regularly as
a salad once a day.
YELLOW CEDAR
Thuja occidentalis
Common names : Arbor Vitae, Thuja.
This is a remedy for muscular aches and pains not due to arth
ritis or rheumatism.
142 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
Yellow Cedar is useful in chronic and subacute prostatic condi
tions where immediate operation is not indicated ; for incontinence of
urine, spermatorrhoea, gonorrhoea, vesical atony, and like ailments.
The dosage is small, 3 to 10 drops ; the tincture must be made from
the green herb.
Yellow Cedar ointment is often successfully applied to warts,
Also as an application to fistulae, bleeding moles, soft chancres, fis
sures, urethral carbuncles, and various indolent lesions. The non
alcoholic tincture is best used for external application.
In muscular pains, the tincture should be taken internally and
the salve applied externally.
Three grain tablets of Yellow Cedar are much used by those who
do not desire or who fear the contamination of their blood by serums
made from animal pus. Use 3 times a day for 3 months prior to
inoculations, and continue for 3 months thereafter.
10.
OTHER NATURAL AGENTS LONG USED IN
HOUSEHOLD OR DOMESTIC PRACTICE
AGRIMONY
Agrimonia Eupatoria
Common names: Cockleburr, Sticklewort.
Agrimony has long been used in domestic practice for bedwetting
and weakness of the bladder. It was also much used for loose coughs
and sore mouths.
The entire herb and/or dry root is made into an infusion, 1 ounce
to the pint of boiling water, given in tablespoon doses every 3 hours ;
or in 2 tablespoon doses every 4 hours, and again in a very small
amount of water just before retiring.
ALFALFA
Medicago sativa
Common name : Lucerne, Alfalfa Buffalo Herb.
A tonic and nutrient long recognized as rich in vitamins and
minerals. It may be freely used where vitality is low, as a tea with,
or between, meals. Alfalfa tea is delightful with meals. It is of much
value where vitality is low due to any cause.
ALLSPICE
Pimento officinalis
Common names : Pimento, Jamaica Pepper.
Allspice should not be used or given to anyone suffering with
any form of stomach complaint.
143
144 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
Allspice is a common household spice frequently used in the
preparation of food. It is of much benefit in ordinary diarrhoea. It is
made more effective by adding a small amount of cloves.
Allspice is a mild astringent. In cholera infantum it is of much
benefit ; it relieves colic due to colds.
While Allspice may be given as the tincture, it is best used as an
infusion made by steeping a teaspoon of it in boiling water for 30
minutes, strain. Dose: a teaspoon in water every hour or oftener
according to condition.
AMERICAN CENTAURY
Sabatia angularis
Common names: Rose Pink, Bitterbloom, Bittle Clover.
The convalescence remedy. Sabbatia is an excellent bitter
tonic. It is often used either alone or with other tonics such as oats.
It is indicated in simple forms of dyspepsia, and may be added to
other agents for that purpose. Infusion is made by adding a teaspoon
of the cut or powdered herb in a cup of boiling water, steep for one-
half hour, take a tablespoon every few hours. It is frequently made
by adding 4 teaspoons into a pint of good whisky or brandy, take a
tablespoon every 3 hours.
Dose of the tincture in water : 15 to 40 drops every 3 or 4 hours.
AMERICAN SENNA (WILD)
Cassia Marilandica
Common names: Wild Senna, Locust Plant.
The household cathartic. Although universally used as an infu
sion or tea for constipation, it is too harsh to be used alone and should
be combined with other agents such as Cascara Sagrada, Rhubarb, and
agents that will fortify
it,
but reduce its harshness. Senna prepara
tions properly combined may be readily obtained and best used instead
of the infusion.
OTHER NATURAL AGENTS 145
ANISE
Pimpinella anisum
Anise is a pleasant stimulating aromatic, and it is very acceptable
to children. It has long been a household remedy in colic and
flatulence in children. It is best given in doses of 1 or 2 drops on
lumps of sugar. Being non-poisonous, it may be given as frequently
as necessary.
Parents frequently give their children cakes covered with Anise
seed during the holiday season to overcome incidence of the overeating
of sweets.
ASPARAGUS
Asparagus officinalis
Common name : Sparrow Grass.
Asparagus is a diaphoretic, aperient, and an important agent in
many health preparations. Its chief use is in combination with other
more harsh remedies for costiveness. It combines well with Cascara
Sagrada, Senna, and other herbal agents. Best when consumed fresh
as a vegetable.
BALM
Melissa officinalis
Common names: Lemon Balm, Garden Balm, Sweet Balm.
Balm belongs to the mint family and may be used as mint teas
generally are. It is a diaphoretic and in warm infusion will help to
produce sweating when wanted in fevers. It is frequently so employed
in teas to which lemon juice is added, supplying the now much
acclaimed Vitamin C.
Infusion is made by adding 4 teaspoons of the herb to a pint of
boiling water ; steep one-half an hour, strain. A tablespoon or 2 to a
cup of hot water, taking as frequently as desired, or, in cases where
sweating is desired, until there is a free perspiration.
146 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
BALM OF GILEAD
Populus balsamifera
Populus is a stimulating expectorant, and beneficially is included
in cough syrup. It is useful in coughs of long standing where the
lungs are feeble and unable to throw off accumulations in the air
passages, but must not be used in irritation of the lungs.
Populus is best used in the tincture. An infusion cannot be made
of it because of its resinous nature.
One-half ounce of the buds soaked in alcohol added to any cough
syrup will serve well.
Dosage of tincture, 5 to 20 drops in water according to age and
seriousness of cough.
BEARBERRY
Arctostaphylos Uva-Ursi
Common names : Upland Cranberry, Arberry.
Bearberry is an astringent and tonic and especially indicated
where a dependable diuretic is required.
Contrary to most herbals, it is not best given in infusions, but
by immersing the leaves in either alcohol or a good brandy, and taking
a teaspoon of this preparation in a cup of hot or cold water, depending
on results desired, 2 or more times a day.
Dose of tincture to be given in the same manner and generally
more certain. Dosage: 10 to 25 drops in water, 3 or more times a
day according to symptoms.
BITTERSWEET
Solatium Dulcamara
Common names: Mortal, Woody Nightshade, Felon Wort,
Fever Twig, Violet Bloom, Scarletberry.
Bittersweet has been considered a mild narcotic because of its
relaxant influence. Its influence, when taken internally, is chiefly upon
OTHER NATURAL AGENTS 147
the glandular system. It is best combined with Queen's Root and
Yellow Dock in an infusion, 1 teaspoon of each in a pint of boiling
water, steep one-half hour, take 1 teaspoon or more in a cup of warm
water as required. May be given in tincture, dosage: 10 to 15 drops,
3 or 4 times a day.
One pound of the cut bark of Bittersweet slowly heated in a
pound of lard for 8 hours forms a splendid ointment to apply to
irritable skin conditions, piles, burns, scalds, and other skin diseases.
BLACKBERRY, AMERICAN
Rubus villosus
Common names : Bramble, Gout Berry, Cloud Berry, Dewberry.
Blackberry or Dewberry root is too well known to require
description, for its usage as an astringent and tonic in almost all forms
of diarrhoea, especially of children during the summer months.
Infusion is made by steeping a teaspoon of the cut root or leaves,
or combination of both, in a cup of boiling water for one-half hour.
Given cold in tablespoon doses as frequently as necessary.
Dose of tincture: 15 to 40 drops in water according to age, as
frequently as necessary.
BLACK ROOT
Leptandra Virginica
Common names : Culver's Physic, Tall Speedwell, Tall Veronica,
Culver's Root.
Liver or bile remedy. Black Root is a relaxant, exerting its action
on the liver and is mostly used as a physic when a free flow of bile is
essential. It is also a tonic. In torpidity of the liver, especially when
headache is associated with
it,
Black Root
is
an ideal agent.
An infusion
is
made by steeping
a
teaspoon of the cut or powdered
root in
a
cup of boiling water for 30 minutes. Divide into
3
portions
taking
1
part before each meal.
Black Root
is
best taken as
a
tincture. Dose:
2
to
4
drops in
148 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
water. Whether it is taken as an infusion or tincture, it is generally
slow in action.
Black Root combines well with other agents directly influencing
the action of the liver.
BLOODROOT
Sanguinaria canadensis
Common names: Red Puccoon, Indian Plant, Tetterwort.
Sanguinaria is a most valuable remedy in the hands of the skilled
Natura physician. To be taken only in small doses as it is poisonous.
Never desirable in large doses.
It is an effective remedy in acute and chronic rhinitis where there
is an offensive discharge and irritating cough with difficult respira
tion. Sanguinaria is valuable in all respiratory diseases, especially in
affections of the nose, pharynx, fauces, larynx, and bronchi in which
there is a deficiency in the mucous membrane indicated by a dry throat
and a dry irritating cough.
Dose: Tincture, 5 to 20 drops according to symptoms. To be
taken only in an emergency or under the care of a physician. Poisonous.
BLUE COHOSH
Caulophyllum thalictroides
Common name : Papoose Root.
The woman's remedy. The Indians used this herb as an agent
for the relief of colic and cramps in children (hence the name "papoose
root"), and cramps during menstruation, frequently combined with
Black Cohosh for this purpose.
It is an agent now chiefly given for menstrual difficulties, promot
ing freer flow and affording relief from the usual pain associated with
this condition. It is much used also in promoting labor pains.
An infusion is made by steeping an ounce of the cut or powdered
root in a pint of boiling water for one-half hour, given in hot water,
OTHER NATURAL AGENTS 149
2 tablespoons every 2 or 3 hours. In spasms it may be given with hot
water more frequently.
Dosage of tincture: 5 to 10 drops.
BROOM
Cytisus scoparius
Common names : Link, Genista, Banal.
This kidney remedy for scanty urine has been long used and of
great benefit in many cases. The tops of the plant are used for infu
sion. One teaspoon steeped in boiling water for one-half hour, let
cool, 1 or more cups a day, according to need.
Tincture : 20 to 40 drops 2 or 3 times a day.
Dandelion (Taraxacum), in equal part, is frequently combined
with Broom for Cystitis.
BRYONY, EUROPEAN WHITE
Bryonia alba
Common names: Wild Bryony, White Bryony.
A remedy in the relief of the spasms of whooping cough. Best
used as a tincture, dose: 5 to 10 drops. Except in an emergency,
use only under the care of a physician as it is poisonous.
BUCKHORNE DRAKE
Osmunda regalis
Common names: Male Fern, King's Fern, Royal Flowering
Fern.
A tonic and styptic much used in coughs associated with, or fol
lowing, a cold. Valuable in diarrhoea and convalescence.
Infusion : cut roots or powder, steep 1 teaspoon in a cup of boiling
water for 30 minutes, take 1 tablespoon every hour, or as required.
Tincture : 20 to 40 drops.
150 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
BUGLEWEED
Lycopus Virginicus
Common names: Water Bugle, Gypsy Wort.
A soothing astringent acting as a nervine. It is indicated in loose
coughs and hemorrhages from lungs and bladder and in incontinence
of urine.
Infusion : One ounce of the herb steeped in a pint of boiling
water for one-half hour, take 2 or 3 tablespoons every 2 hours. Dose
of tincture : 20 to 40 drops.
Lycopus has been much used in the treatment of fistula, applied
to the affected part until granulation is established.
BUTTERNUT
Juglans cinerea
Common names: Clotburr, Bardana, White Walnut.
Juglans' chief influence is upon the lower bowels, and for this
purpose it is unexcelled in prolapsus and constipation due to sluggish
ness of the large bowel. It is best administered as a syrup by boiling
a pound of the bark in water and then evaporating it to one pint,
adding a pound of sugar and turning it into a syrup. Dose: One
tablespoon. When a quick cathartic is desired, Senna may be added.
Juglans in small amounts is an agent valuable in protracted febrile
diseases.
Dosage tincture of Butternut 1 to 15 drops 3 times a day accord
ing to condition.
CALUBA
Cocculus Palmatus
Jateorhiza calmnba
Common name : Kalumb.
A bitter tonic free from astringent qualities and of great impor
tance in the treatment of stomach conditions, especially where there
is lack of appetite. It is indicated in debilitated conditions where the
OTHER NATURAL AGENTS 151
digestion is at fault. Combines well with Alfalfa seed for tea or an
infusion.
Best taken as an infusion. One teaspoon of Caluba to a cup of
boiling water, steep 30 minutes, and cool. Dose : 1 teaspoon in water
before meals.
Dose of tincture : 20 to 40 drops in water, best before meals.
CASCARA SAGRADA
Rhamtius purshianus
Common name: California Buckthorn.
Called a childhood remedy, it is a very bitter tonic ; a mild, slow,
stimulating hepatic. Its influence is chiefly upon the stomach, liver,
gall ducts, and, in a lesser degree, on the bowels. Its value is in
chronic constipation, torpor of the stomach and liver, and chronic
dyspepsia. It influences peristaltic action. Best given morning and
evening.
A desirable means for the use or Cascara is by making :
Fluid Extract of Cascara Sagrada (Rhamnus purshianus) 1 ounce
Tincture of Butternut (Juglans cinerea) % ounce
Simple Syrup (Sugar and water) 8 ounces
Dose: One tablespoon at bedtime and in the morning, if neces
sary.
Dose of tincture : 40 to 60 drops with water morning and evening
according to need.
CHESTNUT, SWEET
Castanea vesca
Considered a specific in whooping cough, it is of great value in
continued distressing coughs and in frequent hiccoughs.
It is best used as an infusion. One ounce to a pint of hot water
steeped for one-half hour. One tablespoon or less for children, 2 table
spoons for adults, as frequently as necessary.
152 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
Dose of fluid extracts : 10 drops as indicated by condition.
The Natura physician sometimes combines Lobelia (Indian to
bacco) and Blue Cohosh (Caulophyllum), as indicated by conditions.
CLIVERS
Galium aparine
Common names: Goosegrass, Cleaverwort, Bed Straw, Catch-
weed, Cleavers.
The agent for the treatment of inflammatory diseases of the kid
neys, bladder, and urinary passages.
Galium is especially indicated in the latter stages of scarlet fever
when there is a tendency to kidney irritation. In scalding urine it is
the remedy.
Most effective when given as an infusion. It is made by steeping
an ounce of cleavers in a pint of boiling water for several hours.
Dose : 2 to 4 tablespoons, 4 times a day.
Dose of tincture: 20 to 40 drops in water 3 or 4 times a day,
or as indicated by conditions.
DOGWOOD, AMERICAN
Cornus Florida
Common names : Box Wood, Flowering Cornel, Green Ozier.
Dogwood is a splendid substitute for quinine, its active principle
being cornine. It has long been prized as a remedy in ague and simi
lar ailments. It is effective as an infusion. It is made by steeping 1
tablespoon in a pint of boiling water for one-half hour, strain. Dose :
one-half cup every 2 or 3 hours, or as indicated.
Tincture : 20 to 40 drops in water.
Cornus combines well with Peruvian Bark (Cinchona). In
making an infusion, 1 tablespoon of Dogwood and 1 teaspoon of
Peruvian Bark steeped in a pint of hot water for one-half hour, take
1 teaspoon in water every 2 or 3 hours, or more frequently if neces
sary.
OTHER NATURAL AGENTS 153
ELDER, AMERICAN
Sambucus Canadensis
Common names : American Elder, Sweet Elder.
An anemia remedy. While American Elder has long been used
as a family remedy and is of value in skin and febrile diseases, it is
best known, and, most used, by making a cordial out of the berries
and combining them with blackberries. These berries, as indicated by
their color, are rich in organic iron and, therefore, of much benefit in
anemia. Two ounces of the juice of the Elderberry and Blackberry
combined, three or more times a day is of exceptional value in anemia.
It may be made into an infusion by steeping a teaspoon of the
bark and root in a cup of hot water for one-half hour, 2 or more cups
a day.
Dosage of the tincture : 20 to 40 drops in water 3 or 4 times a day.
An ointment made from the bark is of great value in the treat
ment of cuts, bruises, and various other sores. The salve is made by
slowly heating a pound of finely cut elder bark in 2 pounds of lard and
one-half pound of mutton suet, strain it. When cool, it is ready for
use and may be kept for a long time. Other remedies for the same
purpose may be combined with the bark.
GENTIAN, YELLOW
Gentiana Lutea
The ague remedy, Yellow Gentian is a bitter tonic and enters into
a great many formulas in the treatment of the liver and various forms
of dyspepsia.
Yellow Gentian is specifically an ague medicine and is frequently
substituted for Quinine and will be effective when many other agents
fail.
In cases where there are frequent chills, treatment should begin
several hours before chills are again due.
In home use it is made into a syrup. One ounce each of gentain,
ginger, and wahoo and 2 ounces of goldenseal, boneset, American
Elder, and Coriander seeds for taste, and a small amount of orange
154 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
peel for vitamin C are made into a syrup by steeping in a quart of
boiling water for an hour, straining and mixing with a quart of simple
syrup. Dosage : One teaspoon to a tablespoon every few hours accord
ing to age and condition.
Singly, it may be made into a semi-infusion, 2 ounces of the
tops and roots to a pint of boiling water; steep for one-half hour.
When cold, strain, and to this add one-half pint or more of good
brandy. Dosage : From 1 to 2 teaspoons according to age and symp
toms. Dose of the tincture : 5 to 10 drops in water before meals.
GUARANA
Pallinia Sorbite
The Physio-Medical and Natura Physician's headache remedy.
It is made into a fluid extract, a tincture, and an active principle,
Guaranine. Although usually prescribed in either the fluid extract or
tincture, it is not desirable as an infusion.
It can be depended on to give speedy relief in headache caused
by mentally over-working, or as the result of exhaustive diseases
where there is a tendency to faintness.
Dose of the fluid extract, 10 drops in water every half-hour for
3 doses. Dose of the tincture: 15 to 20 drops taken in the same way.
It is indicated in neuralgia caused by depression of the nervous
system, taken in the same dosage and frequency. Sorbilis is counter-
indicated in heart conditions.
HOPS
Hamulus Lupulus
Humulus is used for many purposes in medicine, but the two
principal uses for it are as a hypnotic or in poultices.
In action, hops is a tonic, hypnotic, febrifuge, anthelmintic and
may be prescribed for any of these purposes. It is essentially a family
remedy.
It is best taken as an infusion by steeping a tablespoon or more of
OTHER NATURAL AGENTS 155
flowers in a cup of boiling water for one-half hour. Dosage : 1 table
spoon at a time, more at night as a hypnotic.
Dose of tincture : 5 to 20 drops in hot water.
For local application, hops is made into a hot fomentation and
applied to the face to relieve facial and earache. As a poultice, it is
applied to ease the pain in abscesses and bring them to a "head."
IGNATA AMARA
Strychnos Ignatii
Common name: Ignatius Beans.
A composite agent, it is a substitute for Strychnine. It is pecu
liarly a women's remedy and valuable if properly prescribed. Com
bines well with Pulsatilla given alternately. Doses should be small.
It is indicated when menses are dark or black, profuse or scanty,
early rather than on time, melancholia, brooding over sorrows, hys
teria, laughing or crying without real cause, neurotic, although men
tally balanced, and sufferer is erratic and inconstant.
Dose : one-half to 2 drops as required. To be taken only in emer
gencies or under the supervision of a physician.
As associate agent with Pulsatilla, 1 to 2 drops, taken separately.
LINDEN FLOWERS
Tilia Europoea
Common name : Lime Tree, Common Lime.
Linden tea has long been used as a home remedy to promote
perspiration in fevers and for relieving coughs and hoarseness during
colds.
Infusion, or tea, is made by adding a teaspoon of the flowers and
leaves to a cup of boiling water and steep for one-half hour. After
cooling, a tablespoon in water as often as required. For inducing per
spiration the infusion is taken in hot water.
Dose of tincture : 20 to 50 drops according to age and condition.
156 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
MANDRAKE, AMERICAN
Podophyllum peltatum
Common name : May Apple, Wild Lemon, Raccoon Berry.
May Apple is a cathartic, alterative, and anthelmintic. It is an
active ingredient in many of the formulas for constipation. It is im
portant because its action does not result in costiveness as do many
other agents for this purpose.
In family usage, it is made into an infusion, a teaspoon of the
root cut or powdered to a pint of boiling water, steep one-half hour.
Dosage: 1 teaspoon as required.
Tincture: 2 to 5 drops in water. Dosage should be carefully
graded to requirements.
MARSH MALLOW
Althaea officinalis
Chiefly a woman's remedy, although Marsh Mallow is much used
in coughs due to colds and hoarseness too.
It is of real value as a tea in colitis. As a decoction used for
vaginal douches, it is cleansing and soothing.
For infusion, a teaspoon of the powdered root is added to one-half
pint of boiling water, steep for one-half hour, take 2 tablespoons every
few hours. As a decoction for vaginal douches, an ounce is steeped
in a quart of boiling water for an hour, strained, and used while
slightly warm.
Dose of tincture : 20 to 40 drops.
PEACH TREE
Prunus Persica
Amygdalus Persica
The remedy for morning sickness in pregnancy.
The leaves of the peach tree are used in making the infusion,
although the bark may also be used.
Amygalus is a sedative, bitters, aromatic, and a laxative when
taken in large amounts.
OTHER NATURAL AGENTS 157
The infusion is most generally used as a bitters to increase
stomach functioning, and in jaundice and other liver affections, as
well as an ingredient in whooping cough medication. It has proven
generally effective in morning sickness of pregnancy and is certain to
be free from harmful results. The dosage must be limited to the degree
of normal bowel evacuation.
A teaspoon of the herb is steeped in a cup of boiling water for
one-half hour and strained. Two or 3 cups a day may be taken as
long as necessary.
Dose of tincture, 2 to 15 drops in water according to severity of
the nausea. First dose on arising, other doses one-half hour before
meals if necessary. The first cup of infusion also is taken before first
meal of the day.
PERUVIAN BABE
Cinchona Succirubra
Common names: Foso Bark, Jesuits' Bark, Red Bark, Crown
Bark, Cinchona.
One of the most important agents in malaria and in chills in colds
and fevers. It is not to be prescribed in pregnancies because of its
possible oxytoxic effects.
Cinchona is also a valuable agent in debilitating febrile condi
tions and as a tonic and stomachic. It should be taken in small doses
except in emergencies where immediate reactions are desired.
An infusion may be made by steeping a teaspoon of the cut or
powdered bark in 4 ounces of boiling water for one-half hour. Strain
and take a teaspoon in water every 3 hours, or more frequently accord
ing to conditions and desired effect. As a family medicine, it took the
place of Quinine.
Dose of the tincture, from 5 to 30 drops.
PINE BOOT
Spigelia Marilandica
Common names: Carolina Pink, Wormgrass.
The family worm medicine, one of the best and most non-poison
ous domestic agents used as a vermifuge.
158 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
It is best given in an infusion by adding an ounce of the cut or
powdered root in a pint of hot water and steeped for one-half hour.
This is to be taken an ounce every hour, to be followed by a cathartic.
Frequently, the housewife adds sufficient Senna in making the infusion
for free bowel evacuation. Repeat : Excessive doses or too strong
cathartics are to be avoided.
Instead of the infusion, 10 to 20 grains of the powder may be
taken in hot water. Dosage depends on age.
QUEEN-OF-THE-MEADOW ROOT
Eupatorium Purpureum
Common names: Gravel Root, Joe-Pie-Weed, Trumpet Weed,
Purple Boneset.
Eupatorium is a relaxing nervine, capable of soothing and in
creasing the action of the kidneys. It is of much value in irritable con
ditions of the bladder and in kidney conditions accompanied by ach
ing in the small of the back. In irritated conditions of the female
organs, it is most useful.
An infusion is made by steeping an ounce of cut root in a pint of
hot water for one-half hour. Dosage: 1 ounce every 3 hours or as
indicated.
Dose of tincture: 8 to 15 drops.
RED CLOVER
Trifolium Pratense
Trifolium is a contrivaral agent. In domestic use the blossoms
have been gathered, dried, and used for tea in place of coffee or tea.
Mothers have relied on it when their children were suffering with
whooping cough or in general nervousness. The Natura physician
prescribes it for this purpose in combination with other agents.
From times past it was considered a valuable agent in the treat
ment of scrofula and, therefore, as an associate agent with other agents
OTHER NATURAL AGENTS 159
in cancer, although never so recognized by the orthodox medical pro
fession.
Extracts of red clover blossoms have been long and successfully
used in the form of a salve for the removal of external cancer and the
treatment of indolent ulcers, promoting granulation.
As an internal agent it is best given in infusion. One teaspoon of
the blossom in a cup of boiling water, steeped for one-half hour, 3 to
4 times a day. Children get less of the amount in water as frequently
as required.
Dose of the tincture : 5 to 30 drops in water according to age and
purpose.
BED RASPBERRY
Rubus Strigosus
Common name: Wild Red Raspberry.
The root is used in the same manner as Blackberry and Dewberry
Root. Combines well with them in making an infusion or syrup.
RUE
Rute graveolens
Common names: German Rue, Garden Rue, Herb-of-Grace,
Countryman's Treacle (the last two names not in general usage).
This herb was used in domestic practice for centuries and even
today is cultivated in many gardens. The entire plant, except the
roots, is dried to be ready to make into an infusion in time of need.
It is a bitters and stimulant, mostly used for colic and gas pains,
perfectly safe for home use. It has been —and is—still much used for
cramps of menstruation in hot infusion and for general nervouseness
and convulsions.
The infusion is made by steeping a teaspoon of the cut herb in
a cup of boiling water for one-half hour and strain. For any form of
cramps, one-third is added to a cup of hot water and taken every few
hours until relieved. In other conditions it may be taken in cold water.
160 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
Dosage of tincture: 5 to 15 drops in hot or cold water depending
on condition.
The infusion or tincture combines well with other agents indi
cated in similar condition.
ST. JOHN'S WORT, COMMON
Hypericum perforatum
Common name : John's Wort.
Hypericum is a soothing agent and was once found in almost
every country household and used for general dyspepsia and other
digestive disturbances. It was usually picked and placed into quart
bottles, filled with good whisky, its virtues allowed to be extracted,
then taken in 1 ounce portions before meals.
An infusion was frequently made for women and children by
steeping 1 teaspoon of the powdered tops and flowers —or the green
herb when in flower —to a cup of boiling water, steep for one-half
hour, and take 2 tablespoons at a time.
Dosage of tincture: 8 to 15 drops in water before meals.
SARSAPARILLA, AMERICAN AND MEXICAN
Aralia Nudicaulis
Common names: Small Spikenard, Spignet.
Sarsaparilla has long been used in domestic practice with other
agents used for the same purpose, i.e., loss or weakening of manhood.
Its action alone is very feeble.
Within recent years Mexican Sarsaparilla root, or the tincture
made from
it,
has been much publicized, and an untold number have
been persuaded by great promises to pay rather large sums for it.
Mexican Sarsaparilla has somewhat greater value than the American,
but like the American
it
is
of not much value unless combined with
numerous agents for the same purpose.
OTHER NATURAL AGENTS 161
Infusion is made with 2 ounces of the cut root to a pint of boiling
water, steep an hour, and strain. Dose: 2 to 3 tablespoons, 3 or 4
times a day.
Dose of tincture : 20 to 40 drops, 4 times a day.
SHEEP'S SORREL
Rumex acetosella
Common names : Sourgrass, Red Sorrel, Field Sorrel.
The chief value of Sheep Sorrel is as an anti-scorbutic.
Its value is due to its richness in potassium. Potassium is of
great improtance in the treatment of many serious blood infections in
cluding syphilis and cancer, and now to neutralize the effects of "fall
out." For this purpose it should be made into a salad in combination
with raw cabbage, lettuce, tomatoes, spinach, and lightly boiled snap
beans, all rich in potassium.
The infusion is made by steeping a teaspoon of the dried herb,
or one-half teaspoon of the green herb, in a cup of boiling water for
one-half hour, 2 or more cups a day.
The dosage of the tincture : 20 to 50 drops, 3 or 4 times a day.
SHEPHERD'S PX7RSE
Capsella bursa-pastoris
A stimulant, diuretic, and anti-scorbic, Shepherd's Purse is of
much value in congested conditions of the kidneys and bladder, and in
catarrh of the urinary tract indicated by much mucous in the urine.
Infusion is made by steeping a teaspoon of the herb in a cup of
boiling water for one-half hour ; 1 or 2 cups a day as required.
Dose of tincture : 20 to 40 drops, 2 to 3 times a day.
SKUNK-CABBAGE
Symplocarpus foetidus
Common names: Skunkweed, Polecatweed, Meadow Cabbage,
Swamp Cabbage.
162 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
A well-known and long-used agent as a stimulant, expectorant,
and antispasmodic, slightly narcotic. It is of much value in the spasms
of asthma, whooping cough, nasal catarrh, and bronchial irritations.
Only the root is used. For infusion, this is cut into small pieces, a
teaspoon steeped in a cup of boiling water for one-half hour. When
cold, a tablespoon at a time, as required.
Dosage of the tincture: 3 to 15 drops.
SLIPPERY ELM BARK
Ulnus fulva
Slippery Elm is probably best known by its long use in making
poultices for various conditions. It is improved, if a small amount of
glycerine is added.
Slippery Elm is likewise used in enemas, soothing to the lower
bowels when inflammation is present, and for douches, reducing or
eliminating vaginal inflammation. For either purpose an infusion is
made by steeping 1 ounce of the cut bark in a quart of boiling water
for an hour, strain
it,
and
it
is
ready for use.
Slippery Elm possesses pronounced mucilaginous properties,
making
it
a
valuable agent in irritable or inflamed conditions of the
mucous membranes, such as may be present in inflammations of the
stomach, bowels, and kidneys. For this purpose
2
or more ounces of
the bark should be steeped in
a
quart of boiling water for an hour or
longer
;
strained, and used freely. The bark may be soaked for
a
much
longer time, making
it
stronger and then mixed with honey or simple
syrup. A teaspoon taken every half hour to soothe the membranes.
THYME, COMMON
Thymus vulgaris
Common name
:
Garden Thyme.
A domestic remedy for throat and bronchial irritation, and in
spasms of whooping cough. It
is
useful in flatulence and colic, and
OTHER NATURAL AGENTS 163
effective in inducing free perspiration in the beginning of colds and in
ordinary fever.
Infusion is made by adding a teaspoon of the herb in a cup of
boiling water for one-half hour. Two or more cups a day, as indicated.
Dose of tincture : 20 to 50 drops in hot water.
TURTLE-HEAD
Chelone Glabra
Common names: Salt Rheum Seed, Belamony, Turtle-Bloom,
Shell-flower.
The itching remedy. Internally, it is a tonic and has splendid
affect on the liver, and a beneficial effect during convalescence.
Its most important use is as a salve to relieve the itching of
chickenpox and measles. It is made by adding the leaves, 2 or more
ounces to one-half pound of lard, and boiling slowly for 30 minutes.
Strain, cool, and it is ready for use. It is equally allaying in itching
piles.
For internal use, an infusion is made by steeping a teaspoon
of the herb in a cup of boiling water for one-half hour, 1 or more cups
a day.
Dosage of tincture : 20 to 50 drops.
VIRGINIA SNAKEROOT
Aristolochia serpentaria
Common names: Red River Snakeroot, Texas Snakeroot,
Sangrel, Sangreeroot.
The stomach bitters, a man's remedy. This agent has been used
as a stomach bitters since time unrecorded. The fresh root is placed in
a bottle, filled with good whiskey, and permitted to stand for a week,
shaking occasionally. Dose: 1 ounce, or even more, before meals.
This agent has already been considered. Due to its former general and
present use, it deserves special consideration.
Dose of tincture : 1 to 20 drops in water. To be used with caution.
164 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
WHITE PINE
Pinus Strobus
Pinus Alba
Common names : Deal Pine, Soft Pine.
An excellent expectorant, to reduce the mucous secretions fre
quent in common colds and help in its elimination.
An infusion is made by steeping 1 teaspoon of the White Pine in
a pint of boiling water for one-half hour. When cool, take 1 or 2
tablespoons as often as necessary to relieve the condition.
The infusion is made by steeping White Pine, or the combination
following: 1 teaspoon in a pint of boiling water, steep for one-half
hour. When cool, take 1 or 2 tablespoons as indicated by condition.
Dose of tincture, 2 to 10 drops in water.
White Pine is best combined with Wild Cherry (Prunus Vir-
giniana), Sassafras, (Laurus), and Spikenard (Aralia Racemosa),
1 tablespoon each to the 1 teaspoon of Wihte Pine in a pint of boiling
water for one-half hour, 1 teaspoon or more every hour or two to
eliminate the condition.
White Pine substitutes for the creosote commonly used in cough
remedies.
WILD CHERRY BARK
Prunus Serotina
Common names: Choke Cherry, Rum Cherry.
Long used as a valued ingredient in cough remedies. It is com
bined with neutralizing cordials and is indicated in indigestion caused
by lack of tone in the stomach.
A favorite combination much used by men with digestive diffi
culties is to fill a quart bottle half full with the broken bark and
cherries, and then add good whisky or brandy. Shake frequently.
After a week, a tablespoon or more before meals.
Dose of the tincture: 10 to 15 drops with water.
OTHER NATURAL AGENTS 165
In chronic coughs, a formula containing :
Tincture of Wild Cherry Bark (Prunus Serotina) 2 ounces
Tincture of Spikenard (Aralia racemosa) 1 ounce
Tincture of Lippia (Lippia dulcis) yt ounce
Dosage : 10 to 20 drops as indicated. This formula may be added
to a pint of simple syrup. Dosage : one teaspoon as necessary.
WINTERGREEN
Gaultheria procumbens
Common names: Checkerberry, Periwinkle, Spice Berry, Deer-
berry, Teaberry.
The oil of Wintergreen is one of the most useful and potent
agents as an external application to relieve pain of almost every nature.
Gaultheria is frequently prescribed in the form of oil, or other
media, in rheumatism and other conditions of like nature in dose of
6 to 8 drops. It is best that the oil be taken only when prescribed by
a physician.
The plant may be cut or powdered and made into an infusion. A
teaspoon of it in a cup of boiling water, steep one-half hour, strain,
and take in tablespoonful doses throughout the day.
Dose of tincture: 5 to 15 drops.
WITCH HAZEL
Hamamelis virginiana
A universally used home remedy for many purposes. In internal
medication it is useful in dystentery. Valuable as a wash for sore
mouth, inflamed eyes, burns, bruises, skin irritations, and other forms
of external inflammation. The distilled non-alcholic form is to be
preferred.
An infusion may be made by steeping the bark or leaves, or a
combination of them, in a cup of boiling water. When cold, divide
into 3 portions ; one portion morning, noon, or night.
Dose of the tincture: 5 to 20 drops, according to age and/or
condition.
11.
THE NATURA TREATMENT OF DISEASE
The following selected simplified formulas or prescriptions are
from the author's notebook ; the final choice is based on the generally
successful treatment of the diseases named.
This simplification is considered desirable because many, in
fact in almost all of the agents (remedies) described, are in the physi
cian's Armamentarium where detailed descriptions and the most es
sential properties are given in the treatment of various diseases indi
cated.
ACIDOSIS
General Systemic Acid Condition
Tincture of Motherwort (Leonurus cardiaca) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Water Cress (Nasturtium Officinale) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Sweet Flag (Acorus Calamus) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) 6 to 10 drops
In water before meals, Charcoal tablets between meals.
In domestic practice it has been and continues to be, the practice
to steep a teaspoon of Motherwort, Water Cress, Sweet Flag and three-
quarters of a teaspoon of Goldenseal (all dried) in a pint of water
for 30 minutes. Strain, bottle, and add sufficient brandy to prevent
fermentation. Dose: 1 tablespoon before meals. Charcoal tablets be
tween meals.
AGUE
Intermittent Fever— Chills and Fever
Tincture of Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) 6 to 12 drops
Tincture of Gentian (Gcntiana lutes) 15 to 29 drops
Tincture of Fringe Tree (Chiolanthus virginica) 3 to 7 drops
Tincture of Cayenne Pepper (Capsicum frutescens) 1 to 3 drops
In water every 1 or 2 hours according to severity of symptoms.
The diet is important. Plenty of vegetables, both raw and boiled,
(rich in organic iron) should be part of every meal.
166
THE NATURA TREATMENT OF DISEASE 167
Preventive Treatment
Tincture of Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) 8 to 12 drops
Tincture of Squaw Vine (Mitchella repens) 6 to 15 drops
Tincture of Peruvian Bark (Cinchona succiruba) 1 to 2 drops
In water before meals. Organic iron should be prescribed in
conjunction with this formula.
ANEMIA
General Physical Weakness Tonic
Tincture of Bayberry (Myrica cerifera) 5 to 10 drops
Tincture of Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) 7 to 9 drops
Tincture of Pasque Flower (Ancnome Pulsatilla) 1 to 2 drops
Tincture of Oat Beards (Avena saliva) 12 to 20 drops
In water before meals.
In addition, organic iron and raw and boiled vegetables rich in
iron —at least twice a day.
In anemia the diet is generally, if not always, at fault —too low
in iron (and other organic minerals) and vital elements. Sanitation
is poor ; this must have careful attention, if treatment is to be success
ful.
ANGINA PECTORIS
Chest Spasms —Breast Pang
Tincture of Cayenne Pepper (Capsicum frutescens) 2 to 4 drops
Tincture of Indian Tobacco (Lobelia inflata) 10 to IS drops
In water every 30 to 45 minutes according to symptoms.
Cayenne Pepper is best given in tablet form at the same time as
Indian Tobacco is given in water. Repeat every 30 minutes, if neces
sary, to stop spasms.
APPENDICITIS, CHRONIC
Tincture of Lady's Slipper (Cypripedium pubescens) 8 to 15 drops
Tincture of Indian Tobacco (Lobelia inflata) 10 to 20 drops
In water every 30 minutes during attacks of pain. Follow with
treatment for intestinal congestion.
168 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
ASTHMA
Phthisic Spasmodic Breathing
During attacks :
Tincture of Indian Tobacco (Lobelia inflata) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Black Haw (Viburnum opulus) 5 to 10 drops
In water every 3 or 4 hours for the duration of the attacks, fol
lowed by general treatment, which should include small doses of
Cayenne Pepper.
ATAXIA
Tabes Dolsalis
For proper treatment, cause must be found. These are varied
from blood diseases to accidents.
Acute Attacks
Tincture of Indian Tobacco (Lobelia inflata) 20 to 30 drops
Tincture of Cayenne Pepper (Capsicum frutescens) 2 to 4 drops
Take every half hour as necessary. Cayenne Pepper is best given
in tablet form, the Indian Tobacco with water.
General Treatment
Tincture of Great Mullein ( Verbascum thapsus) 10 drops
This has proven most successful as a general treatment. Dose:
10 drops in water, three times a day.
BED WETTING
Enuresis
Bed wetting may be either a habit or due to some weakness, usu
ally of a nervous nature, and should be treated accordingly.
A general formula of much value :
Tincture of Agrimony (Agrimonia eupatoria) 3 to 8 drops
Tincture of Corn Silk (Stigmata maydis) 5 to IS drops
Tincture of Lady's Slipper (Cypripedium pubescens) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Shepherd's Purse (Capselia bursa-postoris) 20 to 30 drops
THE NATURA TREATMENT OF DISEASE 169
Dose : divide into two portions, one at noon and the other at bed
time. For adults, the full amount, two or three times a day; the last
at retiring.
This may be made into an infusion by steeping equal parts in a
quart of boiling water for an hour, strain, add 2 pounds of brown sugar
and an ounce of glycerine. Dose: one teaspoon before meals and
on retiring.
Between meals, 5 drops of Great mullein oil in water for chil
dren; 10 drops for adults. No liquids before retiring.
BRIGHT S DISEASE
Albuminuria
Except in emergencies, there should be a careful examination and
search for the cause of the condition and treatment arranged accord
ingly. All stimulating liquids are to be avoided. Elimination from
skin, kidneys, and bowels encouraged. General treatment to be
changed according to condition:
A favorite formula long prescribed by physio-medical and natura
physicians with generally good results consists of:
Fluid extract of Seven Barks (Hydrangea arborescens) 1 ounce
Fluid extract of Couch-Grass ( Triticum repens) 54 ounce
Fluid extract of Hollyhock (Althaea rosea) Vt ounce
Mucilage of Gum Arabic V/i ounces
Glycerine $4 ounce
Dose : 1 teaspoon a day for 3 to 5 days. Following with agents
indicated for the condition. Repeat. Surgery may be necessary in
emergency conditions.
BRONCHITIS
Bronchial Catarrh
Tincture of Indian Tobacco (Lolbeia inflata) 3 to S drops
Tincture of Milkweed (Asclepias cornuti) 5 to 10 drops
Tincture of Queen's Root (Stillingia sylvatica) 7 to 10 drops
Dose: 3 or more times a day in water according to condition.
Dosage may be increased.
170 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
If a putrid condition develops (easily recognized by the odor of
the sputum), 2 grains of tincture of myrrh should be added to the
formula.
Chronic Bronchitis
For the cough of chronic bronchitis where it is loose and expecto
ration free :
Tincture of Spikenard (Aralia racemosa) 10 to IS drops
Tincture of Black Haw (Viburnum opulus) 10 to IS drops
Tincture of Hops (Humulus lupulus) 20 to 30 drops
Dose : 3 or 4 times a day.
An infusion may be made with the herbs : 2 ounces Spikenard, 1
ounce Black Haw, and 3 ounces Hops steeped in one pint of boiling
water for one-half hour. Steep, strain, and add 3 ounces of honey.
Dose : One tablespoon frequently —as required.
CALCULI (URINABY)
Stone in Bladder and/or Kidneys
The diet must be light, nourishing, but no rich soups for best
results.
Tincture of Scullcap (Scutellaria Lateriflora) 3 to 6 drops
Tincture of Pleurisy Root (Asclepias tuberose) 6 to 12 drops
Dose: in hot water every 3 or 4 hours if there is temperature.
Instead of the tincture, a very desirable and effective infusion is
made of 1 ounce Scullcap and one-half ounce of Pleurisy Root steeped
in a pint of boiling water, strained, and a little honey added.
Dose: 1 tablespoon in hot water every few hours. This is espe
cially important if the skin is hot.
For itching, which is practically always present, and to prevent
scratching: Use 2 ounces Indian Tobacco, 7 ounces of extract of
Witch hazel, in a pint of hot water. If there should happen to be the
formation of pus, one-half ounce of tincture of myrrh is added to this
solution.
With care, practically no internal medication will be necessary
except the teas frequently given. Elimination kept normal.
THE NATURA TREATMENT OF DISEASE 171
CANCER
Because of its controversial nature, cancer, like diabetes and high
blood pressure, must be given different consideration than the various
other diseases.
Gaultheria (Periwinkle)
Gaultheria has already been considered in a different manner as
an agent in the treatment of various diseases. At the present moment
it is separated from, or as a means of, general medication and receives
special consideration as an agent in the treatment of various forms of
cancer. Due to the fact that it is a controversial agent not generally
acknowledged as possessing any virtue as such an agent, there is no
pretension on our part that it will "cure" cancer despite the fact that
we know it to have been successful in some cases.
The Tucson Citizen, April 11, 1960, reported results of experi
ments with this agent for the purpose.
"The scientists (making the experiments) said 'encouraging anti
cancer properties in man and animals' were exhibited by substances
from the plant.
"The groups, headed by M. E. Hordes, Indiana University ; Roy
Hertz, National Cancer Institute; and Gordon H. Svoboda, Lilly
Laboratories, presented their findings at the Association's annual
meeting.
"The report stated the properties were found in a class of chemi
cals used in cancer clinics for the first time. One of these is a newly
discovered alkaloid of periwinkle known as Vine ale ukoblastin, com
monly called VLB.
"Their reports said preliminary clinical trials involving about 30
patients showed that VLB sulfate produced:
Improvement in various acute leukemias, some resistance to other
cancer drugs.
Suppression of the growth and activity of certain solid tumors on
the placenta called carcinomas.
"The new class of experimental anti-cancer agents, the scientists
said, was of unusual interest to scientists because anti-cancer chemicals
172 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
of plant origin are rare in medicine. They said the discovery is likely
to stimulate much wider investigation of the plant for anti-cancer
activity."
Throughout the years, physicians of all schools have guardedly
claimed curing cancer by various means of herbal medication.
The Natura physician usually prescribes an infusion of the plant
made by steeping a teaspoonful of the cut or granulated plant in a cup
of boiling water for one-half hour ; strain. One tablespoon frequently
during the day.
Dosage of the tincture is 5 to 10 drops in cold water 4 times a
day.
Red Clover (Trifolium pratense) 1 teaspoon of the flowers
steeped in a cup of boiling water for one-half hour; strain. One cup
during the day.
Dosage of tincture 20 to 40 drops.
Comfrey (Symphytum officinale), 1 ounce of the powdered roots
in one cup of boiling water ; steep for one-half hour and strain. Divide
into 4 parts ; 1 part, 4 times a day.
Dosage of tincture 10 to 40 drops in water.
Coneflower (Echinacea) 1 ounce of the cut root steeped in 1 cup
of boiling water for one-half hour, and strain. Divide into 3 portions,
1 part. 3 times a day.
Dosage of tincture 10 to 30 drops.
The infusions have long been used, but the procedure is tedious,
though necessary, where tinctures are not procurable. Tinctures are
standardized and more certain and should be substituted for the infu
sions where possible :
Tincture of Periwinkle S to 10 drops
Tincture of Coneflower (Echinacea angustiflora) IS to 30 drops
Tincture of Comfrey (Symphytum officinale) 10 to 40 drops
Tincture of Red Clover (Trifolium pratense) 20 to 40 drops
In water 4 times a day.
Diet must be carefully selected. No denatured sugars or starches.
Carefully selected protein. Plenty of fresh vegetables, rich in potas
sium. All foods heavy with congesting material must be avoided. The
liver must be kept active by proper medication. Elimination free.
THE NATURA TREATMENT OF DISEASE 173
CATARRH
Chronic (General)
Tincture of Blazing Star 8 to 12 drops
Tincture of Scullcap 2 to 4 drops
Tincture of Blue Cohosh 5 to 10 drops
Tincture of Golden Seal 8 to 10 drops
Three or more times a day.
Catarrh is not a disease in itself. While treating
it,
the cause
should be found and eliminated, and food elements supplied which will
remove the cause.
CATARRH OF THE BLADDER
Cystitis—Vesicular Catarrh
Tincture of Bearberry
S
to 20 drops
Tincture of Peach Tree Leaves
5
to 10 drops
Dose
:
Take in water three or more times a day according to
symptoms.
In chronic conditions,
5
drops of tincture of barosma (buchu)
should be added.
In acute Cystitis this formula
is
generally effective
:
Tincture of Marsh Mallow 10 to 15 drops
Tincture of Couch-Grass 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Shepherd's Purse 10 to 20 drops
Dose
:
divide into
3
portions. One between each meal and at bed
time. Dosage may be increased according to condition.
All alcohol must be forbidden as are also highly seasoned foods.
An infusion of much value may be made of the marsh mallow,
couch grass and shepherd's purse —one-half ounce each steeped in
1
quart of boiling water for 30 minutes or more
;
strain
;
use one-half
cupful every
3
hours.
A favorite formula of many physicians
is
composed of
:
Tincture of Corn Silk 10 to IS drops
Tincture of Colic Root
8
to 12 drops
Dose
:
Three or
4
times
a
day or more frequently as required.
If pus shows in the urine,
1
drop of Tincture of myrrh should
be added to each dose.
174 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
CHICKEN POX
Varicella
This childhood disease is a simple one if correctly treated, other
wise, there may be serious complications.
Bed at first symptoms. Even temperature. Elimination by skin
and bowels. Avoid all draft and chills. Temperature treated with
teas: Pennyroyal, Catnip, Mint and/or fruit juices.
If the stomach is upset, this should have immediate attention lest
there be an increase of temperature.
Tincture of Marsh Mallow (Althea officinale) 10 drops
Tincture of Peach Tree Leaves (Prunus Persica) 5 to 10 drops
Tincture of Pleurisy Root (Asclepias tuberose) 5 to 10 drops
Three or 4 times a day according to condition.
CHLOROSIS— ANEMIA OP PUBERTY
Green Sickness
With proper diet this ailment, formerly so prevalent with modern
endocrine (glandular) treatment, should be readily prevented from
becoming serious.
Medication must have in view building up the vital and resistant
forces of the body. General medication will help prevent the develop
ment of the condition.
Infusions are more effective than the tinctures:
Scullcap (Scutellaria Lateriflora) 1 ounce
Blue Cohosh (Caulophyllum thalictroides) 1 ounce
Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) J4 ounce
Coriander Seed (Coriandrum sativum) J4 ounce
Orange Peel J4 ounce
Mix herbs, seed, and peel, and steep in 1 quart of boiling water,
strain and add 1 pound of sugar and 2 ounces of glycerine.
A teaspoon or more after each meal and on retiring.
THE NATURA TREATMENT OF DISEASE 175
CHOLERA INFANTUM
Summer Complaint in Children
Cholera infantum is to be considered an emergency illness re
quiring the immediate attention of a physician because of its rapid
development. Refer to physician's Armamentarium.
Patient must have absolute quietness. No annoyance of any kind.
At first sign of temperature, cool drinks. Food requires utmost care.
Malted milk is to be preferred above all other foods. Ceylon (gener
ally known as India tea), brewed 5 minutes and given when cool is
of benefit because of the tannin content.
Tincture of Raspberry Leaves (Rubus Hants) 20 to 40 drops
Tincture of Marsh Mallow (Althea officinale) 15 to 40 drops
Tincture of Comfrey (Symphytum officinale) 15 to 30 drops
In water as frequently as necessary, indicated by condition. If
pus or blood appears in stool, add 4 to 6 drops of tincture of Myrrh.
This infusion may be given instead :
Raspberry Leaves (Rubus Idaeus) 1 ounce
Marsh Mallow (Althea officinale) 1 ounce
Comfrey (Symphytum officinale) 1 ounce
Steep in one pint of boiling water for one-half hour and strain.
Dose: one teaspoon every hour in warm water. May be added to
Catnip tea instead of warm water.
During convalescence Wild Cherry syrup is of benefit. Gradual
return to regular diet.
In earlier times, even now in rural districts, family medication
placed great dependence on Blackberry root and Red Raspberry
leaves infusion.
COLIC
Children
Colic—stomach pains—in children, are multitudinous. Unless
caused by some more serious illness they are simple in their treat
ment, and the remedies for their treatment were formerly known to
practically every mother. The remedies were in the form of gathered
176 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
dried herbs, readily at hand. These were: chamomile (in itself gener
ally depended on for many conditions), Pennyroyal, Spearmint, Cat-
niu, Peppermint, Ginger, Fennel.
As a rule, they were used singly, made into a tea or infusion, but
would readily combine.
Chamomile —teaspoon steeped in a cup of boiling water for one-
half hour. Strain, cool. One teaspoon every hour.
Pennyroyal—teaspoon steeped in cup of boiling water for one-half
hour. Cool. One teaspoon, or more every hour or oftener.
Spearmint —One Teaspoon steeped in a cup of boiling water for
one-half hour. Steep, cool. One teaspoon every 2 hours.
Peppermint —One teaspoon steeped in boiling water for one-half
hour. Strain. One teaspoon every hour.
Ginger—One teaspoon steeped in boiling water for one-half hour.
Strain. One teaspon in water every hour. Tincture may be used
instead of infusion : 10 to 30 drops in water.
Fennel —One-half teaspoon of seed in a cup of boiling water for
1 hour. Steep. One teaspoon every hour.
Frequency of giving any one of these teas or infusions depends
on severity of condition. Teas made one-half strength may be given
in much larger amounts.
In modern practice the natura physician prescribes any one of
these herbals in tincture form, selecting the agent best indicated :
Tincture of Ginger (Zingiber officinale) 5 to 10 drops
Tincture of Chamomile (Anthemis nobilis) IS to 40 drops
Tincture of Pennyroyal (Mentha pulegium) 1 to 5 drops
Tincture of Spearmint (Mentha viridis) 5 to 15 drops
Tincture of Catnip (Nepeta cataria) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Fennel (Foeniculum vulgare) 10 to 20 drops
Dosage and frequency according to age and severity of attack,
always in warm water.
CONSTIPATION
General Treatment
Natura materia medica is replete with remedies for this almost
universal condition (habit), and medication should be chosen accord
ing to cause and associated conditions.
THE NATURA TREATMENT OF DISEASE 177
A simple treatment where persistaltic action is weak is :
Cascara Sagrada : 10 or more drops in water, night and morning.
This should not be continued long because the system adjusts to it
and there is lack of activity in the agent.
An infusion made into a syrup containing :
Butternut Bark (Juglans cinerea) yi pound
Wahoo (Euonymus atropurpureus) 2 ounces
Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) 2 ounces
Peppermint (Mentha piperita) 1 ounce
Steep in boiling water for 1 hour. Strain. Add 1 pound sugar
and 2 ounces glycerine. Dose: one teaspoon or more as necessary,
night and morning. Tinctures may be substituted in general practice :
Tincture of Butternut Bark (Juglans cinerea) 8 drops
Tincture of Wahoo (Euonymus atropurpureus) 5 drops
Tincture of Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) 7 drops
Dosage : more or less according to age and condition, night and
morning.
CORYZA
Coryza, with temperature, is frequently diagnosed as la grippe or
influenza. The treatment is practically the same, with variations, ac
cording to symptoms :
Tincture of Carolina Jasmine (Gelsemium nitidum) 2 to 3 drops
Tincture of Boneset (Eupatorium perfoliatum) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Pleurisy Root (Asclepias tuberose) 12 to 20 drops
Tincture of Peruvian Bark (Cinchona succirubra) 1 to 10 drops
In water every 2 or 3 hours according to condition.
CROUP
Pseudo-Membranous or Inflammatory
Croup must always be considered an emergency condition and
means taken to relieve the condition. Consult Physician's Armamen
tarium.
178 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
The Natura physician's first choice for immediate action still
remains Thomson's third preparation in water every 15 minutes until
vomiting and relaxation occur. After vomiting a lesser dosage every
one-half hour. Where suffocation appears imminent, increase dosage.
General medication :
Tincture of Pleurisy Root (Asclepias tuberose) 30 to 60 drops
Tincture of Ginger (Zingiber officinale) 15 to SO drops
Tincture of Indian Tobacco (Lobelia infiata) 2 to 4 drops
Dosage and frequency according to condition. Always in hot
water.
For the cough :
Tincture of Wild Cherry Bark (Prunus Serotina) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Black Haw (Viburnum opulus) 8 to 10 drops
Dosage increased or reduced according to age and condition.
Treatment must be vigorous and constant.
DEMENTIA
Neurosis During Change of Life
In all too numerous instances, due to many causes present in
modern life, various neurotic conditions develop during menopause.
Recognizable symptoms appear and, if prompt attention is paid them,
serious consequences may be avoided. Among the most important
remedies are: Lady's Slipper, Pasque Flower, Passion Flower, and
Motherwort.
Tincture of Pasque Flower (Anenome Pulsatilla) 1 to 2 drops
Tincture of Lady's Slipper (Cypripcdium pubescens) 5 to 10 drops
Tincture of Motherwort (Lconurus cardiaca) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Passion Flower (Passifiora incamata) 10 to 20 drops
In water 3 or 4 times a day. More frequent if necessary.
DIABETES DXSIPIDUS
Polyuria
The Physio-medical treatment generally consisted of:
Citric Acid 20 grains
Tartrate of Iron and Potassa 20 grains
Glycerine 1 ounce
Dissolve in 7 ounces of water. Dose : 1 teaspoon after each meal.
THE NATURA TREATMENT OF DISEASE 179
The natura general treatment may be in combination with the
physio-medical formula :
Tincture of Corn Silk (Stigmata Maydis) 15 to 30 drops
Tincture of Scullcap (Scutellaria Lateriflora) 2 to 20 drops
Tincture of Wild Cherry Bark (Prunus Serotina) 20 to 40 drops
Tincture of Pipsisscwa (Chimaphila Umbellata) 1 to IS drops
In water 3 to 4 times a day.
DIABETES MELLITUS
Saccltarine or Sugary Urine
In the treatment of diabetes, diet is of utmost importance and
must be consistently followed. Condition of the stomach, liver, and
elimination must be strictly attended to.
Physio-medical treatment :
Tartrate of Iron 1 ounce
Potassa 1 ounce
Citric Acid 1 ounce
Glycerine 1 ounce
Water 7 ounces
Dose : 1 teaspoon before meals.
Natura treatment :
Tincture of False Unicorn Root (Chamaelirium luteum) 2 ounces
Tincture of Coneflower (Echinacea angustifolia) 2 ounces
This combination is most effective, if it is combined with an infu
sion made with 4 ounces of Blueberry leaves steeped in a pint of boil
ing water for one-half hour and strained. Dosage : 1 to 2 tablespoons,
3 or 4 times a day.
Instead of the infusion, 2 ounces of the tincture of Blueberry may
be added to the formula. Dosage : 20 to 30 drops, 3 or 4 times a day.
DIARRHOEA
If the liver is at fault :
Tincture of Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) 7 to 10 drops
In water before meals.
180 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
Between meals and before retiring:
Tincture of Poplar (Populus tremuloidei) 5 to 10 drops
Tincture of Rhubarb 3 to 5 drops
Tincture of Witch Hazel (Hamemalis virginiana) 10 to 20 drops
Dosage : according to condition.
If there is a decided odor, add 1 to 3 drops of tincture of myrrh.
If there is great nervous tension :
Tincture of Scullcap (Scutellaria Lateriflora) 8 to IS drops
Tincture of Bayberry 8 to IS drops
Every 3 hours. Dosage in all cases must be according to age and
seriousness of condition. Diet must be light and neutral : rice, okra,
and malted milk.
Chronic
Tincture of Poplar (Populus tremuloides) 8 to IS drops
Tincture of Witch Hazel (Hamemalis virginiana) 8 to IS drops
Tincture of Bayberry 8 to 13 drops
Every 3 or 4 hours. Dosage according to age and condition.
DIPHTHERIA
Malignant Sore Throat
An emergency infectious disease requiring immediate and care
ful attention. Consult physician's Armamentarium.
Any infection of the throat accompanied with temperature —
though this is not always present in the beginning —should be sus
pected and receive prompt attention.
The most effective natura treatment is the Thomson course of
treatment in association with other agents. Treatment must be vigor
ous:
Tincture of Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) 8 to IS drops
Tincture of Scullcap (Scutellaria Lateriflora) 10 to IS drops
Dosage: according to age and condition every 2 to 3 hours. If
the breath is putrid, 1 or 2 drops of tincture of myrrh.
THE NATURA TREATMENT OF DISEASE 181
Instead of the tincture, an infusion may be made :
Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) }4 ounce
Scullcap (Scutellaria Lateriflora) $4 ounce
Steep in one pint of boiling water. Strain and add one-quarter
teaspoon of tincture of myrrh. Dosage: 2 teaspoons every 2 hours,
or as indicated by condition.
Gargle should be frequent and composed of borax and tincture
of myrrh in water, or some other effective antiseptic agents.
An effective spray is made of :
Tincture of Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) }4 ounce
Tincture of Myrrh (Commiphora myrrha) 10 drops
Every hour or more frequently.
The age-old domestic external application is still effective in the
various throat affections: a woolen cloth about the throat. On an
additional cloth the kerosene or turpentine lightly sprayed and placed
over the first cloth. This should not be strong enough to blister.
Suspect any form of throat infection and treat promptly and
effectively.
DROPSY
Anasarca Ascites
The natura physician does not consider dropsy an initial disease,
but one caused by various other organic disorders which must have
first or associate treatment. General treatment :
Tincture of Shepherd's Purse (Capsella bursa-pastoris) 10 to 18 drops
Tincture of Corn Silk (Stigmata Maydis) 8 to IS drops
If there is associated constipation :
Tincture of Butternut (Juglans cmerea) 3 to 5 drops
According to requirement, every 2 to 3 hours.
Where possible, an infusion should be regularly given composed
of:
Goldenseal Powdered Root (Hydrastis canadensis) 1 teaspoon
Peach Tree Leaves (Prunus Persica) 2 teaspoons
Steeped in 5 ounces of boiling water for 30 minutes. Strain. One
tablespoon every 3 hours.
182 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
Associated treatment:
Tincture of Pipsissewa (Chimaphila Umbellata) 1 to 10 drops
Tincture of Poplar (Populus tremuloides) 1 to 10 drops
Tincture of Dwarf Elder (Sambuccus Ebulus) 5 to 10 drops
Tincture of Dandelion 10 to 20 drops
Dosage : in water 3 to 4 times a day, according to symptoms.
DYSENTERY
Diarrhoea
Any type of dysentery with which cramps are associated should
receive prompt attention lest it turn into dangerous bloody flux. Rest,
no irritating liquids, and simple food such as soups, malted milk, or
milk brought to a near boil in which a beaten white of egg is mixed.
A simple and usually effective combination is :
Tincture of Bayberry (Myrica cerifera) 5 drops
Tincture of Poplar (Populus tremuloides) 5 drops
Tincture of Red Raspberry (Rubus idaeus) 5 drops
Tincture of Blackberry (Rubus villosus) 5 to 10 drops
Dosage : in water every 2 to 3 hours. An ounce of the roots and
barks may be steeped for one-half hour and strained. A tablespoon of
the infusion every 2 or 3 hours.
Note: Blackberry is often confused with Raspberry. Blackberry
is a very low growing form. The roots are used in tinctures or in
fusion. It is of greater value in dysentery, especially in children, than
the Raspberry.
In the more advanced stages of dysentery, 3 drops of tincture
of Myrrh and/or tincture of cranesbill 5 to 10 drops should be added.
In severe cases, use both.
If there is blood in the stool, 2 ounces of the infusion to which is
added 4 drops of Tincture of Myrrh ; 20 drops of Cranesbill and 1
ounce of witch Hazel should be added to a quart of slightly warm
water and use as an enema every 4 hours, or as necessary, to help
relieve the condition.
Extreme care should exercised in the treatment of these cases.
THE NATURA TREATMENT OF DISEASE 183
During Pregnancy
Unless the condition is severe, the first formula should be given
to which is added 5 to 10 drops of Squaw Vine every 3 or 4 hours as
condition demands.
DYSPEPSIA
Indigestion —General Catarrh
There are causes too numerous to mention that create this condi
tion. In each instance, the cause should be found, treated and re
moved. Treatment is general :
Tincture of Hope (Hamulus Lubulus) 5 to 10 drops
Tincture of Ginger (Zingiber officinale) S to IS drops
In 3 ounces of water one-half hour after meals, or :
Tincture of Golenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) 5 to 10 drops
Tincture of Jersey Tea (Ceanothus americanus) 4 to 7 drops
Tincture of Fringe Tree (Chiolanthus virginica) 3 to 7 drops
In 3 ounces of water directly after meals or one-half hour before
meals, or :
Tincture of Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) 7 to 10 drops
Tincture of Yellow Gentian (Gentiana lutea) 10 to IS drops
Tincture of Bitter Root (Apocynum Androsaemifolium) 5 to 8 drops
Tincture of St. John's Wort (Hypericum perforatum) 8 drops
In 3 ounces of water after meals.
An infusion may be made with 1 ounce Goldenseal, 3 ounces of
Bitter Root and 2 ounces of St. John's Wort steeped in a pint of
boiling water. Every one-half hour. Dose : one-half to 1 ounce of the
infusion in 3 ounces of water after meals.
Tincture of Scullcap (Scutellaria Laterifolia) S to IS drops
Tincture of Lady's Slipper (Cypripedium pubescens) S to 15 drops
DYSURIA
Difficult Urination
The causes are numerous, and must be found and treated with
the agents herein noted and indicated for the purpose. In many in
stances the cause may be extremely serious and should receive prompt
and careful attention. Consult physician's Armamentarium.
184 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
ECZEMA
Tetter-Sault Rheum and Other Skin Diseases
The causes of skin affection are many and frequently due to an
extremely faulty diet and very poor elimination. The cause should
be found, corrected, and proper agents prescribed and external mani
festations properly treated.
A formula frequently effective for internal treatment :
Tincture of Bitter Sweet (Solatium Dulcamara) 5 to 10 drops
Tincture of Coneflower (Echinacea angustifolia) 10 to 15 drops
Tincture of Bittersweet S to 10 drops
Tincture of Burdock 5 to IS drops
Tincture of Rhubarb 3 to 6 drops
In 3 ounces of water two or three times a day, in severe cases
(less in milder cases) or:
Tincture of Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) 7 to 10 drops
Tincture of Burdock 5 to IS drops
Tincture of Queen's Root 3 to 9 drops
Tincture of Dandelion 10 to IS drops
In 4 ounces of water two or three times a day.
As an external application in the treatment of eczema and similar
skin diseases, an infusion made of Chamomile, 1 tablespoon of the herb
to a cup of boiling water for 1 hour then drained and frequently ap
plied, has been very successful. A salve may be made of it by boiling
it in lard slowly for 15 minutes ; after draining and cooling, it is ready
to use. Tincture Marigold may be combined with it.
ENDOCARDITIS
Inflammation of the Heart's Lining Membrane
To be considered as a serious condition. Usually associated with,
or following such conditions as Bright's disease, acute infectious scar
let fever, measles, child-bed fevers and poisonous irritants in the blood.
Efforts must be to remove the cause and allay the inflammation.
Tincture of Virginia Snakeroot (Aristolochia Serpentaria) 5 drops
In water every 3 hours, or:
THE NATURA TREATMENT OF DISEASE 185
An infusion made of 1 tablespoon of cut or powdered roots
steeped in 5 ounces of boiling water and strain. Dosage : One table
spoon every 3 hours ; or :
Tincture of Boneset (Eupratorium perfoliatum) 5 to 10 drops
Tincture of Pheasant Eye (Autumnalis vernalis) yi to 2 drops
Tincture of Lady's Slipper (Cypripedium pubescens) 5 to IS drops
In water every 4 hours. Dosage may be reduced or increased
according to symptoms. All stimulants must be forbidden. No exer
tion is permitted.
ERUPTIVE DISEASES
Chicken Pox, Measles, German Measles
Generally palliatives only are necessary, chosen from, or com
bined: Virginia Snakeroot, Pennyroyal, Catnip, Chamomile, Spear
mint. Best given in infusions or teas. Complications must be treated
accordingly.
FEVERS
Treatment in General
In almost all instances except in low grade fevers there is a
temperature in the beginning, and if this has attention, development
may be arrested by elimination and reestablishing a balance.
Of prime importance is the Thomsonian course of medication, or
another form of relaxing procedure should be followed.
Tincture of Pleurisy Root (Asclepias tuberose) 8 to 10 drops
Tincture of Indian Tobacco (Lobelia inflata) 3 to 5 drops
Tincture of Catnip (Nepeta cataria) 10 to 15 drops
In warm water every 3 or 4 hours. Amount and frequency
governed by age and condition. In domestic practice, infusion is best.
Pleurisy Root (Asclepsias tuberose) 1 teaspoon
Catnip (Nepeta cataria) 1 teaspoon
Indian Tobacco (Lobelia inflata) 54 teaspoon
Steeped in 8 ounces of boiling water for 30 minutes, strain. Adults :
2 tablespoons every hour or according to condition. Children, 1 small
186 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
tablespoon every hour or according to condition. Always in warm
water.
GALL STONES
In many instances it is possible to dissolve formed gall stones, or
prevent their formation by proper medication. Formulas that have
proven very effective are:
Tincture of Tetterwort (Sanguinaria canadensis) 5 to 10 drops
Tincture of Barberry (Berberis ivlgaris) 3 to S drops
Tincture of Fringe Tree (Chiolanthus virginica) 3 to S drops
Tincture of Bitter Root (Apocynum Androsaemifolium) 1 to 2 drops
In water 3 times a day, best one-half hour after meals ; or :
Tincture of Wormseed 8 to 10 drops
Tincture of Rheumatism Root (Dioscores villosa) 1 to 5 drops
Tincture of Mandrake (Podophyllum peltatum) 1 to 3 drops
Tincture of Fringe Tree (Chiolanthus virginica) 3 to S drops
In water 3 to 4 times a day.
GANGRENE
Morbid Sores and Infections
Four ounces comfrey steeped in 8 ounces of boiling water for 1
hour, strain. Add 4 ounces non-alcoholic Marygold, 2 ounces Cone-
flower, and 2 ounces Myrrh. Clean diseased part. Fold linen or cotton
sheeting 4 to 6 times, wet, and apply with bandages ; wet several times
a day. Change in the evening. Very effective in the treatment of slow
healing ulcers and sores of like nature.
GASTRITIS
Chronic
Tincture of Bayberry (Myrica cerifera) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Fringe Tree (Chiolanthus virginica) 5 drops
Tincture of Sweet Flag (Acorus calamus) 10 to 20 drops
In 4 ounces of water either before or after meals. In some in
stances it may be necessary to give it either one-half hour before or
THE NATURA TREATMENT OF DISEASE 187
after meals. The reaction to the medicine will quickly indicate which
is best.
GOITRE
Bronchocele
Goitre, generally a woman's disease, is most frequently associated
with irregularity of the menstrual function. This and the general
health should receive first attention.
A treatment frequently successful is a combination of iodine, best
obtained from the sea weeds and foods rich in this element, and other
agents rich in iodine. Consult physician's Armamentarium.
General treatment:
Tincture of Bayberry (Myrica cerifera) 8 to 15 drops
Tincture of White Oak Bark (Quercus alba) 1 to 5 drops
Tincture of Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) 10 to 20 drops
In water 3 to 4 times a day.
Where there is a tendency to overweight, the Natura physician
generally prescribes 1 or 2 grains of natural thyroid per day to nor
malize metabolism.
The diet should be strictly regulated. It should contain very
little fats, no sweets of any kind, very few starches, very little salt,
and all sea foods. For starches use baked potatoes and brown rice.
An abundance of vegetable salads, all green vegetables, and some
boiled. There should be no stimulants.
GRAVEL
Tincture of Couch-Grass (Triticum repens) 5 to 15 drops
Tincture of Corn Silk (Stigmata Maydis) 15 to 30 drops
Tincture of Shave Grass (Equisetum arvense) 5 to 20 drops
Tincture of Knotgrass (Polygonum aviculare) 15 to 30 drops
Tincture of Hemlock 5 to 15 drops
In 4 ounces of water 3 or 4 times a day.
A very old domestic remedy made into an infusion : One ounce
of Corn Silk and Knotgrass. One-half ounce each of Couch-grass,
188 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
Shave grass and Hemlock steeped in a quart of boiling water for 30
to 60 minutes, strain. One to 2 tablespoons in water 3 or 4 times a
day. The Natura physician usually has best results with the tinctures.
HEADACHE
Bilious
Tincture of Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) 8 drops
Tincture of Fringe Tree (Chiolanthus virginica) 6 drops
Tincture of Poplar (Populus tremuloides) 4 to 8 drops
In water every 3 hours during attack. Three times a day after
meals between attacks or as long as necessary.
Bile salts and hydrochloric acid after meals.
Chronic or Stomach
Tincture of Evening Primrose (Oenothera biennis) 8 to IS drops
Tincture of Motherwort (Leonurus cardiaca) 8 to 10 drops
Tincture of Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) 8 to 10 drops
In water after meals.
Nervous
Tincture of Lady's Slipper (Cypripedium pubescens) 8 to IS drops
Tincture of Pasque Flower (Anenome Pulsatilla) 1 to 3 drops
Tincture of Passion Flower (Passiflora incarnata) 8 to IS drops
In water every 3 hours during attacks. Twice a day thereafter.
Menstrual
Tincture of Pasque Flower (Anenome Pulsatilla) 1 to 3 drops
Tincture of Squaw Vine (Mitchella repens) 8 to IS drops
Tincture of Motherwort (Leonurus cardiaca) 8 to 15 drops
With water every 3 hours during attack. Three times a day
thereafter, as long as necessary.
Heart—(Non-Organic Heart Weakness)
Tincture of Cactus (Cereus grandiflorus) 2 to 4 drops
Tincture of Hawthorn (Crataegus oxyacantha) S to 10 drops
THE NATURA TREATMENT OF DISEASE 189
In water 3 or more times a day as long as required, or :
Tincture of Scullcap (Scutellaria lateriflora) 8 to IS drops
Tincture of Hawthorn (Crataegus oxyacantha) 4 to 8 drops
With water 3 or more times a day as long as required.
HYPERTENSION— HIGH BLOOD PRESSURE, HARDENING
OF THE ARTERIES— ARTERIOSCLEROSIS
Are these different ailments, or different expressions (symptoms)
of one condition?
Is the actual cause known and do the practitioners of any of the
schools of medical practice agree on the cause ? Is there a cure ? This
condition, so serious, so universal, is a controversial subject and,
therefore has no place in a text of this nature. But because of its
seriousness and universality, the Natura physician must give it serious
thought and investigation ; and if possible, find the means to alleviate,
if not cure, those so afflicted, who consult him for relief.
Most physicians admit that the present forms of medication can
not cure and, in general, are even valueless to give relief. Serious
thinkers have returned to the investigation of the virtues and value of
vital elements made use of in the earlier systematized medical practice
—the barks and roots of herbs and the vital elements present in the
vegetables, flowers, shrubs and even grasses ; as an example oat beards
for its vital element.
A late example is the use of Rauwolfia serpentia, (more generally
known as Snakeroot), a plant found in India. It is used in the treat
ment of high blood pressure. This was publicized by CIBA Pharma
ceutical Products when they announced they had isolated that part
of Rauwolfia which lowers high blood pressure. This is not to be
considered as a "cure" for the condition, but a relief. As far as known
it has not been tested in preventing the development of high blood
pressure and associated conditions, or stopping the development if
started and eliminating the cause.
The Snakeroot obtained from India is not to be confused with
Virginia Snakeroot and its active element Aristollochine which we
have found of value combined with other agents in preventing the
development of hypertensive —high blood pressure —arteriosclerosis,
because of its effectiveness in stomach ailments, basing its use on the
190 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
theory that these conditions have their beginning in interference with
digestion, malassimilation and elimination, unless caused by other dis
eases.
It is generally believed that one of two things cause hardening
of the arteries or arteriosclerosis. It is due either to fats, or sugars and
starches. We (speaking for ourselves personally) based our investiga
tion on the concept that both were causative of this condition.
Consider first fats as the cause. Why? How? Our thought
reverted to our grandmothers, even mother, making soap. To do this,
they saved all their fats, then with the addition of an alkali (usually
soot from the chimney), they boiled this into soap. If an insufficient
amount of some form of potash was added, they failed. The system
does, or should do, this very thing. It employs bile to saponify the
fats. If we believe there is an insufficient amount of bile to do this,
the conversion of the fat is incomplete ; it cannot be properly absorbed.
It creates effete matter, which clogs the system and interferes with
the circulation, gradually doing to the veins what lime and iron in
water do to water pipes. In like manner, if sugars and starches are
not turned into natural alcohol, the same thing takes place.
Accepting this theory, we began our experimenting with the
thought that, as already stated, digestion, assimilation, and elimina
tion must have attention. First consideration always being given to
the first symptoms of hypertension by a careful and complete checkup.
If no signs of other causative conditions, then it must be concluded
that the physical agents which alone can fully convert fats, sugar, and
starches are insufficient to bring about this conversion and prevent the
creation of foreign, effete matter zvhich changes into cholesterol.
Having in mind the old manner of making soap and the need of a
converter of fats, our conclusion was that the lack of digestive agents
and bile was the primary cause, and therefore a substitute must be
found. This was not difficult, because in the past, (before modern
chemical agents were substituted for organic agents such as tinctures),
fluid extracts and powders were in universal use.
Our formulas consisted and still consist in variation, of :
Tincture of Oregon Grape (Berbcris aquifolium) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Barberry (Bcrberis vulgaris) 5 to 10 drops
Tincture of Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) 8 to 10 drops
Tincture of Mandrake (Podophyllum peltatum) Sufficient for
proper elimination.
THE NATURA TREATMENT OF DISEASE 191
In water after meals ; or :
Tincture of Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) 8 to 10 drops
Tincture of Fringe Tree (Chiolanthus virginica) 7 to 10 drops
Tincture of Yellow Gentian Root (Gentiana lutea) 5 to 20 drops
Tincture of Oregon Grape (Berberis aquifolium) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Mandrake (Podophyllum peltata) sufficient for
proper elimination, and /or, bile
salts in conjunction
with these formulas.
In water after meals.
Intake of salt should be radically reduced. Fats with exception of
milk, some cream, and a small amount of butter eliminated. Sugars
and starches are prohibited. Sea food and protein predominating.
Plenty of fresh vegetables in every form. Brown rice and baked po
tatoes substituting for other starches.
This procedure is usually effective in at first retarding then
eliminating the condition, (if not due to other diseases) and started
at the beginning of the condition.
HYSTERIA
Female Disturbances
Tincture of Lady's Slipper (Cypripedium pubescens) 8 to 15 drops
Tincture of Motherwort (Leonurus cardiaca) 10 to 15 drops
Tincture of Pasque Flower (Anenome Pulsatilla) 1 to 3 drops
Tincture of Scullcap (Scutellaria lateriflora) 8 to 15 drops
In water every hour during attacks.
INDIGESTION
Acute
Tincture of Poplar (Populus tremuloides) 3 to 6 drops
Tincture of Fringe Tree (Chiolanthus virginica) 5 to 9 drops
Tincture of Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) 7 to 10 drops
Tincture of Bitter Root (Apocynum Androsaemifolium) 3 to 5 drops
In water after meals or during attacks.
Atonic
Tincture of Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) 7 to 10 drops
Tincture of Yellow Gentian Root (Gentiana lutea) 10 to 15 drops
Tincture of St. John's Wort (Hypericum perforatum) 5 to 10 drops
Tincture of Cayenne Pepper (Capsicum frutescens) 8 drops
In water after meals.
192 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
Flatulence of Wind Colic
Tincture of Sweet Flag (Acorus Calamus) 10 to IS drops
Tincture of Feverfew (Chrysanthemum Porthenium) 10 drops
Tincture of Peppermint (Mentha piperta) 8 to 12 drops
Tincture of Spearmint (Mentha vindis) 5 to 8 drops
In water during attacks as necessary.
Intestinal
Tincture of Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) 8 drops
Tincture of Yellow Gentian Root (Gentiana lutea) 10 to 15 drops
In water after meals.
INSOMNIA
Tincture of Peach Leaves (Prunus Persica) 4 to 10 drops
Tincture of Passion Flower (Passiftora incarnata) 5 to 10 drops
Tincture of Lady's Slipper (Cypripedium pubescens) 3 to 10 drops
Tincture of Scullcap (Scutellaria lateriflora) 3 to 15 drops
Dosage and frequency governed by age and symptoms ; or :
Tincture of Lady's Slipper (Cypripedium pubescens) 3 to 15 drops
Tincture of Chamomile (Anthemis nobilis) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Passion Flower (Passiflora incaraata) 5 to 10 drops
Dosage and frequency governed by age and symptoms.
In using this prescription it is best, when possible, to separate
the Chamomile from the rest of the formula making an infusion of 1
teaspoon of the herb in a cup of boiling water for one-half hour ; strain.
1 tablespoon in water 4 times a day and a cup before retiring. The
tinctures, 3 or more times a day.
JAUNDICE
Icterus
Tincture of Bitter Root (Apocynum Androsaemifolium) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Cascara Sagrada (Phamnus purshianus) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Ginger (Zingiber officinale) l0 to 15 drops
Dosage: 3 times a day, preferably after meals, according to
condition. Amount of Cascara only sufficient for proper elimination.
No stimulants or fatty foods allowed. Diet should be simple.
THE NATURA TREATMENT OF DISEASE 193
Or:
Tincture of Yellow Gentian (Gentiana lutea) IS to 30 drops
Tincture of Fringe Tree (Chiolanthus virginica) 5 to 10 drops
Tincture of Bitter Root (Apocynum Androsaemifolium) 1 to 3 drops
Tincture of Mandrake (Podophyllum peltatum) 2 to 4 drops
Dosage according to condition.
Only sufficient Mandrake should be included in the formula
necessary for regular and sufficient elimination.
Or:
Tincture of Poplar (Populus tremuloides) 4 to 8 drops
Tincture of Bitter Root (Apocynum Androsaemifolium) 4 to 10 drops
Tincture of Feverfew (Chrysanthemum Parthenium) 10 to IS drops
Tincture of Rhubarb 5 to 20 drops
Dosage according to symptoms, 3 to 4 times a day.
Only sufficient Rhubarb should be added to the formula for regu
lar and sufficient elimination.
KIDNEY INFLAMMATION— ACUTE
Nephritis
Acute nephritis should be considered as an emergency disease and
treated accordingly. Consult physician's Armamentarium. General
treatment when there is a temperature :
Tincture of Pleurisy Root (Asclepias tuberose) IS to 30 drops
Tincture of Marsh Mallow (Althea officinalis) 10 to 20 drops
Preferable in warm water.
Domestically, an infusion of 2 ounces each of Pleurisy Root and
Marsh Mallow steeped in a pint of boiling water for one-half hour.
Two tablespoons every 2 hours has been very successful.
Tincture of Shepherd's Purse (Capsella bursapastoris) IS to 30 drops
Tincture of Peach Tree Leaves (Prunus Persica) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Hollyhock (Althea rosea) 10 to 30 drops
In water every 2 to 3 hours.
If there is blood in the urine, add :
Tincture of Witch Hazel (Hamamelis virginiana) IS to 30 drops
Tincture of Myrrh (Commiphora myrrha) 2 drops
194 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
KIDNEYS
Mucus in Urine
Tincture of Motherwort (Leonurus cardiaca) 8 to 20 drops
Tincture of Linden Flowers (Tillis Europaea) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Couch-Grass ( Triticum repens) 20 to 40 drops
Tincture of Shave Grass (Equisetutn arvense) 13 to 30 drops
In water 3 or 4 times a day.
LA GRIPPE
Frequently called Influenza
Tincture of Pleurisy Root (Asclepias tuberose) 10 drops
Tincture of Boneset (Eupatorium perfoliatum) 15 drops
Tincture of Scullcap (Scutellaria latriflora) 8 drops
Dosage according to age and symptoms, always in warm water
every 3 hours or more. When chills are present, 3 drops of Cayenne
Pepper should be added. If relaxing is indicated 4 to 8 drops of
Indian Tobacco.
For infusion, 1 teaspoon of Pleurisy root and Boneset, three-
quarters teaspoon Scullcap steeped in 8 ounces boiling water for one-
half hour. Strain. 1 tablespoon in hot water every 3 or 4 hours. Give
to children proportionately.
LEUCORRHOEA
Persistent
Tincture of Cranesbill (Geranium Maculatum) 5 to 20 drops
Tincture of White Pond Lily Root (Nymphaea odorata) 5 to 20 drops
Tincture of Marigold (Calendula officinalis) 8 to IS drops
Tincture of Pasque Flower (Anenome Pulsatilla) 2 drops
In water 3 or 4 times a day.
If there is odor or pus, add 2 drops of Myrrh.
Tincture of Pipsissewa (Chimaphila umbellata) 8 to IS drops
Other indicated remedies according to condition : Bayberry, Bear-
berry, Sumach, Witch-Hazel, Red Raspberry and Tormemtil.
THE NATURA TREATMENT OF DISEASE 195
LIVES
Cirrhosis
Cirrhosis of the liver is generally the result of abuses such as ex
cessive use of alcohol, sweets of every description, or other dietary
abuses. To effect relief or a cure drastic steps must be taken to elimi
nate these abuses.
Cirrhosis may also be the result or associated with various other
diseases, and these must receive proper treatment.
A general treatment that has proven effective:
Tincture of Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) 8 to 10 drops
Tincture of Fringe Tree (Chiolanthus virginica) 4 to 8 drops
Tincture of Yellow Gentian (Gentiana lutea) S to 8 drops
Tincture of Cascara Sagrada (Rhamnus purshianus) Sufficient
amount for proper elimination.
In water after each meal.
In many cases it is advisable to include bile salts.
Spleen Involvement
Tincture of Jersey Tea (Ceanthus americanus) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Fringe Tree (Chiolanthus virginica) 5 to 10 drops
Tincture of Barberry (Berberis vulgaris) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) 5 to 10 drops
In water before meals.
Engorgement
Tincture of Dandelion 20 to 40 drops
Tincture of Bitter Root (Apocynum Androsaemifolium) 3 to 7 drops
Tincture of Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) 5 to 10 drops
In water after meals.
Bile salts and hydrochloric acid frequently indicated.
Inflammation —Acute
Tincture of Fringe Tree (Chiolanthus virginica) 5 to 8 drops
Tincture of Jersey Tea (Ceanthus americanus) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Bitter Root (Apocynum Androsaemifolium) 3 to 7 drops
In water after meals. All fats and sweets in any form are pro
hibited and very little salt permitted.
196 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
Torpid
Tincture of Barberry (Berberis vulgaris) 8 to 15 drops
Tincture of Yellow Gentian Root (Gentiana lutea) 3 to 10 drops
Tincture of Bitter Wood 3 to IS drops
Tincture of Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) 5 to 10 drops
MALARIA
Tincture of Pleurisy Root (Asclepias tuberose) 7 to 12 drops
Tincture of Barberry (Berberis vulgaris) 8 to IS drops
Tincture of Peruvian Bark (Cinchona succirubra) 2 drops
Tincture of Cayenne Pepper (Capsicum frutescens) 2 drops
In hot water every 2 to 4 hours according to symptoms. Not to
be prescribed for pregnant women.
MARASMUS
Malnutrition
A condition generally resulting from a diet deficient in necessary
nutriment, chiefly proper protein and mineral elements. Treatment
must be first, to supply the missing elements, then to stimulate appe
tite, digestion, and assimulation.
Tincture of Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) S to 10 drops
Tincture of Fringe Tree (Chiolanthus virginica) 3 to 8 drops
Tincture of Bitter Root 3 to 10 drops
In water 3 or 4 times a day.
All sweets and fats are prohibited. Baked potatoes, brown rice,
barley, and okra should be substituted for all starches. No tea, coffee,
or stimulants (herb teas substituted). Bile salts included in remedies
for elimination.
MELANCHOLY
Associated with Various Diseases
Melancholy, neurasthenia, and neurosis are seldom diseases in
themselves but are associated with various ailments and diseases and
THE NATURA TREATMENT OF DISEASE 197
require medical attention. They are seldom curable unless the disease
they are associated with is treated and eliminated.
Tincture of Lady's Slipper (Cypripedium pubescens) 10 to 20 drops
Titncure of Jersey Tea (Ceanthus americanus) 3 to IS drops
Tincture of Motherwort (Leonurus cardiaca) 15 to 30 drops
Tincture of Pasque Flower (Anenome Pulsatilla) 2 to 4 drops
In water 3 or 4 times a day.
MENSTRUAL IRREGULARITIES
Tincture of Cranesbill (Geranium Malculatum) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Pennyroyal (Mentha pulegium) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Tansy (Tanacetum vulgare) 2 to 8 drops
Tincture of Chamomile (Anthemia nobilis) 13 to 30 drops
Tincture of Pasque Flower (Anenome Pulsatilla) 1 to 3 drops
In water 3 or 4 times a day as required.
NERVOUSNESS
Nervines
There are numerous types of nervousness for which no apparent
cause can be found ; and diagnosis is most difficult. Those who do
suffer one form or another are generally miserable and in need of
natural agents totally unharmful to the system, yet are highly success
ful sedatives and should be prescribed. In many instances there have
been household remedies, though not reasonably prescribed or well
combined. This can be readily corrected :
Tincture of Scullcap (Scutellaria lateriflora) 2 to IS drops
Tincture of Lady's Slipper (Cypripedium pubescens) 5 to 10 drops
Tincture of Passion Flower (Passiflora incarnata) 10 to 20 drops
In water several times a day and before retiring.
Or:
Tincture of Scullcap (Scutellaria lateriflora) 2 to IS drops
Tincture of Lady's Slipper (Cypripedium pubescens) 15 to 30 drops
Tincture of Passion Flower (Passiflora incarnata) 10 to 30 drops
In water as required and before retiring.
In nervousness during menses and menopause, add 2 to 5 drops
tincture of Pasque Flower.
198 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
NEURALGIA
Female
Tincture of Bitter Root (Apocynum Androsaemifolium) 4 to 8 drops
Tincture of Lady's Slipper (Cypripedium pubescens) 5 to 10 drops
Tincture of Pasque Flower (Anenome Pulsatilla) 2 to 4 drops
In water every 3 to 4 hours during attack.
Bitter Root, although a valuable agent, should, like Pasque
Flower be given only in very small doses.
NEURITIS
Tincture of Bitter Root (Apocynum Androsaemifolium) 4 to 8 drops
Tincture of Motherwort (Leonurus cardiaca) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Lady's Slipper (Cypripedium pubescens) 10 to 20 drops
In water every 3 to 4 hours during attack.
PERITONITIS
An emergency condition. To be treated according to symptoms.
Generally, first choice, the Thomsonian procedure. Secondly:
Tincture of Coneflower (Echinaces angustifolia) 15 to 40 drops
Tincture of Wild Indigo (Baptista tinctoria) 2 drops
Tincture of Myrrh (Commiphora myrrha) 2 drops
With other medication in warm water.
PLEURISY
Tincture of Pleurisy Root (Asclepias tuberose) 10 to IS drops
Tincture of Scullcap (Scutellaria lateriflora) 8 to 10 drops
Tincture of Boneset (Eupatorium perfoliatum) IS drops
In warm water every 2 to 4 hours according to symptoms.
Ginger and Pennyroyal tea as a liquid.
In domestic practice, 1 teaspoon of the herbs steeped in 8 ounces
of boiling water for 30 minutes, strain. One to 2 tablespoons in warm
water every 2 to 4 hours.
THE NATURA TREATMENT OF DISEASE 199
PNEUMONIA
Pneumonia must be considered as an emergency condition. Gen
eral treatment :
Tincture of Scullcap (Scutellaria lateriflora) 8 to 10 drops
Tincture of Boneset (Boneset perifoliatum) 8 to IS drops
Tincture of Pleurisy Root (Asclepias tuberose) 7 to 10 drops
Tincture of Feverfew (Chrysanthemum parthenium) 10 to 15 drops
In warm water every 2 or 3 hours.
If symptoms indicate:
Tincture of Motherwort (Leonurus cardiaca) IS to 30 drops
Between other medication, warm Pennyroyal and Ginger tea as
liquids.
PROSTATITIS
Non-Operative
Tincture of Saw Palmetto 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Couch-Grass (Triticum repens) S to IS drops
Tincture of Pipsissewa (Chimaphila umbellata) 2 to 10 drops
Tincture of Pasque Flower (Anenome Pulsatilla) 2 to 4 drops
In water 4 times a day.
PUERPERAL FEVER
Like typhoid and scarlet fever it is to be considered an emergency
condition because of its seriousness and the possibility of complica
tions.
General treatment :
Tincture of Coneflower (Echinacea angustifoKa) IS to 40 drops
Tincture of Wild Indigo (Baptista tinctoria) 2 drops
Tincture of Feverfew (Chrysanthemum parthenium) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Myrrh (Commiphora myrrha) 2 drops
Every 2 to 4 hours. Passion Flower together with Catnip, Penny
royal or other soothing teas for restlessness.
200 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
EHEUMATISM
General
Tincture of Black Cohash (Cimicifuga racemosa) 2 to 10 drops
Tincture of Pipsissewa (Chimaphila umbellata) 2 to 10 drops
Tincture of Bitter Root (Apocynum Androsaemifolium) 2 to 8 drops
Tincture of Motherwort {Leonurus cardiaca) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Evening Primrose (Oenathe biennis) 5 to 10 drops
In water 4 times a day.
SCARLET FEVER
Considered an emergency condition because of the care essential
to avoid complications. General treatment for fevers to be followed.
Complications to be treated accordingly. Quiet, darkened room, no
disturbances. Ginger, Pennyroyal, and Catnip teas for liquids ; Passion
Flower for restlessness. Elimination is important. Refer to agents
under physician's Armamentarium.
SINUSITIS— RHINITIS
These conditions, now so general, persistent, and discouraging
to the sufferer, should not be considered as a disease, but an ailment
due to many causes that should be sought and properly treated.
Most generally, the basic cause is to be found in the diet, poor
sanitary conditions, and inadequate elimination. This must be cor
rected if the condition is to be overcome and eliminated. Medication
must be consistent, otherwise, the symptoms may become chronic.
Tincture of Tetterwort (Sanguiniara canadensis) 8 to 10 drops
Tincture of Pasque Flower (Anenome Pulsatilla) 1 to 2 drops
Tincture of Mandrake (Polophyllum pel latum) # to 5 drops
Tincture of Evening Primrose (Oenathea biennia) 5 to 10 drops
In water 3 or 4 times a day.
SMALLPOX
To be treated in like matter as scarlet fever. Elimination to
receive careful attention. Quiet, dark room; complications treated
accordingly.
THE NATURA TREATMENT OF DISEASE 201
In all morbid conditions the Thomsonian plan of treatment is
generally effective. Consult physician's Armamentarium.
STOMACH
Bitters—Stimulants to Digestion
Tincture of Yellow Gentian (Gentiana lutea)
Tincture of Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis)
Tincture of Chamomile (Anthemis nobilis)
Tincture of Oregon Grape (Berberis aquifolium)
In water before meals.
10 to 20 drops
6 to 10 drops
12 to 20 drops
5 to 10 drops
TYPHOID FEVER
This must be considered an emergency condition. General treat
ment with variation :
Tincture of Cranesbill (Geranium Maculatum)
Tincture of Wild Indigo (Baptista tinctoria)
Tincture of Coneflower (Echinaces angustifolia)
Tincture of Bay berry (Myrica Cerifera)
20 to 50 drops
2 drops
IS to 40 drops
20 to 40 drops
Every 3 to 4 hours in water,
or restlessness.
Passion Flower for nerve tension
ULCERS
Gastric
Tincture of Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis)
Tincture of Carolina Jasmine
Tincture of Coneflower (Echinacea angustifolia)
Tincture of Pleurisy root (Asclepias tuberose)
6 to 10 drops
1 to 4 drops
10 to 20 drops
1 to 10 drops
In water after meals.
Gastric ulcers are generally caused by a faulty diet— fats, starches,
sugars, salt, and stimulants, especially alcoholic beverages. All these
must be curtailed, if not entirely eliminated. A bland diet should be
substituted, if a cure is expected.
202 NATURE'S HEALING AGENTS
URINE DIFFICULTIES
Incontinence and Scaldy
Tincture of Couch-Grass (Triticum repens) 5 to to 10 drops
Tincture of Sumach (Rhus glabra) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Buchu (Barosma belulina) 2 to 10 drops
Tincture of Clivers (Galium aparine) 10 to 20 drops
In water 4 times a day.
Scanty and Irritating
Tincture of Corn Silk (Stigmata Maydis) 12 to 25 drops
Tincture of Pipsissewa (ChimaphUa umbellata) 2 to IS drops
Tincture of Poplar (Populus tremuloides) 10 to 20 drops
Tincture of Shave Grass (Equisetum arvense) IS to 25 drops
UTERINE
Tampon Dressing
Tincture of Marigold (Calendula officinalis) 10 drops
Tincture of White Pond Lily (Nymphaea odorata) 5 drops
Tincture of Bayberry 5 drops
Tincture of Cranesbill (Geranium Maculatum) 3 drops
One tampon inserted at night (lying on back and pushing easily
up uterus as far as possible). If much mucus, blood, or odor, add 2
drops of tincture of Myrrh. Remove in the morning ; follow by douche
to which is added Witch-Hazel.
Before following this procedure, there should be a careful exam
ination to learn whether there is a malignancy.
ADDENDUM
To repeat a law of the beginnings:1
"And God said, Behold, I have given you every herb bearing
seed, which is upon the face of all the earth, and every tree, in which
is the fruit of a tree yielding seed ; to you it shall be for meat (food).
"And to every beast of the earth, and to every fowl of the air, and
to everything that creepeth upon the earth, wherein there is life, I
have given green herb for meat : and it was so." —Genesis 1 .29, 30.
This statement, a Law given by the Divine to His creatures, has
always been accepted as a basic truth by every Thomsonian, physio-
medical, and Natura physician, and has governed their practice though
generally used in the form of a tincture or fluid extract.
The herbs of the fields and woodland and their seeds are actually
foods for the body and mind. They contain vital elements such as vita
mins and minerals, even as do those articles of sustenance we usually
class as foods. In addition, they contain active principles which act as
agents (medicines) to heal the wounds of the body or eliminate de
structive poisons from the system.
Some of these herbs are classified as poisonous or narcotics. An
example is Cannabis Indica2 or Indian hemp. It is doubtful if there
is a single chemical compound as effective in the treatment of various
forms of ailments under the classification of "neurosis" when properly
prescribed.
Paolo Rovesti and Bianco Magno of Milan, Italy by experimenta
tion with yellow corn sprouts have found that the extracts contain
vitamins, organic minerals, an antibiotic (organic) and an antioxidant
(organic).3
1. This statement is extremely pertinent in view of the latest discoveries
by men of science who have been experimenting with the vital, or active
principles in various seeds.
2. Admittedly this is a poison, but there is probably no substance that is
not destructive in too great an amount. Even water, a substance the body must
be supplied with daily to properly function, in too great an amount may be
causative of disease.
3. We are taking pains to mention that these substances are organic
because the system can metabolize them as food while we do not believe it
can the inorganics.
203
204 ADDENDUM
These scientists have also found that the juice of wheat contains
vitamin E. Every experienced dietician has long been aware of this.
In barley juice they have found vitamin B1 so essential in preventing
and curing diseases of the nature of beriberi. They have found that
such seeds also contain vitamin C and niacin, which they class as a
preventive of diseases of the nature of pellagra.
Another scientist, Peter A. Ark, professor of plant pathology in
the University of California at Berkeley, has found that wheat and
barley extracts contain antibiotic substances important in the treat
ment of germ and fungi diseases.
In India at the Dacca University, Drs. H. N. De and S. C. Datta
have found that in the germinated or sprouted seeds of legumes and
grains grown in India, such as cowpeas, peas, rice, and the grains
especially wheat and barley, niacin is found in considerable quantities.4
Scientists Baude, Kon, Mitchell, and Kodiceh of the University
of Reading, England, have been able to demonstrate that niacin is
associated with other properties of great medicinal and nutritional
value in almost all seeds, hence in their sprouts eaten as salads.
In the treatment of stomach and intestinal ulcers, dieticians have
found that barley soaked in warm (not hot) water for from 8 to 10
hours and this water consumed as would be ordinary water, possesses
a powerful neutralizing influence on irritating acids frequently causa
tive of ulcers. The barley, then cooked with vegetables, including
much okra, which also possesses neutralizing, healing substances.
Russian scientists, associated with the Academy of Science, Mos
cow, have found that sunflower, wheat, barley, and soybeans are not
only rich in niacin, but also in vitamin B' and riboflavin essential in
the growth of children, and in the prevention of cataract and diseases
of the skin. Fresh sprouts of these seeds are of greater value than the
extracts or processed products.
Penicillin has proven extremely valuable in many diseased condi
tions, but at the same time is a dangerous remedy to many people.
Biblically speaking, there is an organic penicillin which may be ex
tracted from the ash, pivit, rose, acaci, and honey locust seeds.
4. In view of the fact that almost all grain foods are denuded of their
vital elements in their processing, the experienced dietician and Nature physician
now strongly advocates the sprouting of the various seeds, especially such as
mung beans, alfalfa seeds, soybeans, oats (rich in Avena sativa) and wheat,
making them into salads wth their meals daily.
ADDENDUM 205
To refer again to foods, the scientists Pievo Gallo and Humberto
Valeri have found that the delicious, and much enjoyed, avocado pear
is rich in antibiotic substances.
Scientist V. A. Skovronskii of Russia has found that the seed of
the common caraway, ains, and sweet fennel contain substances of
great value as a diuretic in the treatment of swellings and the accumu
lation of fluids in the body when due to various heart, lung and kidney
diseases.
Much is said of the extensive use of dangerous tranquilizers. Is
there such a thing as a natural, i.e., organic tranquilizer? Scientists
Argawal Dandiya and associates in a medical College in Jaipur, India
have found that the extracts from carrots5 are relaxants of the muscles
and intestines as well as the nervous system and of value in obstetrics
where there is tenseness.
The Thomsonian, physio-medical and Natura schools of medi
cines are all closed and only a small number of the practitioners of
these systems survive. This is most regrettable now that these natural
remedies are coming into favor once again and may replace the great
number of complicated chemical compounds many of which have
proved to be highly dangerous in practice. The Lord's words of
times beyond counting: "Behold I have given you every herb bearing
seed, etc." is slowly being verified by scientists.
5. A great amount of carrot juice is consumed by those believing they are
following a natural diet. This juice is of great value to the system if taken
in proper proportion of possibly no more than 4 ounces a day. Greater amounts
may be as destructive to the liver as the excessive use of alcoholics. Temperance
is the Law in all things.
CLINICAL INDEX
To simplify the selection of any agent for a given purpose, we
give both the common name and the one known in medical nomen
clature. Under the heading of the various ailments we give only the
name by which the agent is most generally known to the layman.
COMMON NAME
Lobelia (Indian Tobacco)
Capiscum (Red Pepper)
Goldenseal
Bayberry
Chamomile
Black Samson
Myrrh
Ladyslipper or Valerian
Crowfoot
Male Fern (Malefern)
Gentian
Bitterherb or Balmony
Fringe Tree
Barberry
Passion Flower
Pleurisy Root
Scullcap
Motherwort
Red Root or Jersey Tea
Couch Grass
Corn Silk
Squaw Vine
Feverfew
May Flower (Mayflower)
Poplar Bark
LATIN
Lobelia inflata
Capsicum fastigiatutn
Hydrastis canadensis
Myrica cerifera
Anthemis nobilis and
Matricara Chamomilla
Echinacea angustifolia
Balsamodendron myrrha
Cypripedium pubescence
Geranium mac.
Aspidium filix-mas
Gentiana lutae
Chelone glabra
Chionanthus virginica
Berberis vulgaris
Passiflora incarnata
Asclepias tuberosa
Scutellaria lateriflora
Leonurus cardiaca
Ceanothus Americanus
Triticum repens
Stigmata maydis
Mitchella repens
Chrysanthemum parthenium
Pulsatilla nigra
Populus tremuloides
206
CLINICAL INDEX 207
COMMON NAME
Bearberry
Pipsissewa
Ginger
Pond Lily
Hemlock
Sumach (Sumac)
Witch-Hazel (Wichhazel)
Red Raspberry
Bitter Root (Bitterroot)
or Milk Weed
Pennyroyal
Hoarhound or Horehound
Spearmint
Peppermint
Tansy
Bitter Sweet (Bittersweet)
Burdock
Yellow Dock (Yellowdock)
Dandelion
Virginia Snakeroot
Buchu
Cleavers or Qivers
Black Currant Leaves
Blueberries
Coltsfoot
Dwarf Elder
Eyebright
Fennel
Knot Grass
Linden Flowers
Mallow Flowers
Marigold Flowers
Milkwort
Mullein Flowers
Oak Bark
LATIN
Uva ursi
Chimaphila umbellata
Zingiber
Nymphaea odorata
Canadensis
Rhus glabra
Hamamelis virginiana
Rubus strigosus
Apocynum androsaemifolium
Hedeoma pulegioides
Marrubium vulgar e
Mentha viridis
Mentha piperita
Tanacetum vulgar e
Solanum dulcamara
Actium lappa
Rutnex crispus
Leontodon taraxacum
Aristolochia serpentaria
Barosma betulina
Qualium aparine
Ribes nigrum
Vaccinium myrtillus
Tussilago farfara
Sambucus ebulus and
Aralia hispida
Euphrasia officinalis
Foeniculum officinalis
Polygonum aviculare
Tilia Europaea
Althea rosea
Calendula officinalis
Polygala vulgaris
Varbascum thapsus
Quercus rubur
208 CLINICAL INDEX
COMMON NAME
Oat Beards
Primrose
Rosemary
St. John's Wort
Sage
Scurvy Grass
Silverweed
Strawberry leaves
Sweet-Flag
Tormentil
Vervain Root
Violet
Watercress
Flaxseed
LATIN
Avena sativa
Primula officinalis
Rosmarinus officinalis
Hypericum perforatum
Salvia officinalis
Cochlearia officinalis
Potentilla anserina
Fragaria vesca
Acorus calamus
Potentilla tormentilla
Verbena officinalis
Viola odorata
Nasturtium officinalis
Linum usitatissimum
Abscesses
Chamomile
Acidosis
Motherwort Charcoal Watercress Calamus
Albumen and Phosphates in Urine
Motherwort Corn Silk
Anemia
Bayberry Pulsatilla Myrica Hydrasis Oats
Capsicum
Asthma
Lobelia Passiflora Pulsatilla Myrrh Hoarhound
Enuresis (bed-wetting)
Calendula St. John's Wort Mullein
CLINICAL INDEX 209
Blood Poisoning
Echinacea
Brick Dust in Urine
Corn Silk
Bronchitis
Feverfew Lobelia
Bronchitis (Chronic)
Hydrasis Geranium Mullein flowers Hoarhound
Linden leaves Myrrh Ceanothus
Burns
Calendula Vaseline
Catarrh (Bronchial)
Barberry
Catarrh (Foul mucus)
Hydrastis Barberry Myrica Echinacea Hoarhound
Black Currant Leaves Lobelia
Catarrh (Nasal)
Calendula Hydrastis Mullein flowers Linden leaves
Geranium
Childbirth, Made Easy
Squaw vine
Cholera Infantum
Hydrastis Barberry Poplar Bark
Dewberry
210 CLINICAL INDEX
Coffee (Tonic)
Acorns Oats
Colds (Acute)
Pleurisy root Boneset Ginger Pennyroyal Hoarhound
Peppermint Rosemary
Colds (deep seated)
Myrrh
Colic (Bilious)
Chionanthus Lobelia
Colic in Children
Chamomile Ginger Pennyroyal Spearmint
Peppermint Fennel
Constipation
Rhubarb Licorice Bitter root
Aloes Hydrastis
Dandelion
Consumption
Myrrh Ceanothus Capsicum Hydrastis
Convalescence and Debility
Barberry Hydrastis Capsicum Gentian Bitter Herb
Acorns Oats
Convulsions in Infants
Bitter-Sweet
Cough (Chronic with Phlegm)
Coltsfoot Linden Flowers Hoarhound
CLINICAL INDEX 211
Cough (Whooping)
Black Currant Leaves Vervain Root Violet Ceanothus
Deafness
Mullein
Delirium
Cypripedium
Delirium Tremens
Motherwort Passiflora Cypripedium
Dementia in Change of Life
Cypripedium
Diabetes
Bearberry Buchu Blueberries
Diarrhoea (Acute)
Geranium Hydrastis Bayberry Myrrh Pulsatilla
Poplar Bark Bearberry White Pond Lily Hemlock
Sumac Witch Hazel Red Raspberry Dewberry
Blueberries
Diarrhoea (Acid)
Chamomile
Diarrhoea (Chronic)
Myrrh Poplar Bark Bearberry White Pond Lily
Echinacea
Diarrhoea (Summer)
Dewberry Witch-Hazel Rhubarb Echinacea
212 CLINICAL INDEX
Diarrhoea (Scrofulus)
Bayberry White Pond Lily
Diphtheria
Lobelia Echinacea Myrrh
Dyspepsia (Acute)
Chionanthus
Dropsy
Myrrh Pipsissewa Poplar Bark Dandelion Dwarf Elder
Scurvy Grass Rosemary
Dropsy, due to faulty liver
Bitter Herb Dandelion
Dysentery
Geranium Bayberry Ceanothus Poplar Bark Witch Hazel
Red Raspberry Dewberry
Dysentery, during pregnancy
Squaw Vine Dewberry Red Raspberry
Dyspepsia
Hydrastis Gentian Bitter herb Bonset Bitter root
Oak Bark St. John's Wort
Dyspepsia (Atonic)
Bitter Herb Hydrastis Poplar Bark Gentian
Berberis Myrrh
Dyspepsia (Chronic)
Rumex Bayberry
CLINICAL INDEX 213
Dyspepsia (Nervous)
Chamomile Hydrastis Valerian Capsicum
Earache
Mullein
Ear, running
Myrrh Echinacea
Eczema
Myrrh Bittersweet Strawberry leaves Dandelion
Burdock Rhubarb
Emesis, to produce
Bayberry Lobelia Boneset Bitter root
Emesis, to allay
Red Raspberry Spearmint
Ear, Chronic discharge
Yellow dock Mullein Echinacea
Eruptive Diseases (acute)
Serpentaria Pennyroyal Scullcap Pleurisy root
Chamomile
Eyes, sore
Eye Bright Fennel
Eyes, sore —purulent
White Pond Lily
214 CLINICAL INDEX
Fever (Influenza, LaGrippe)
Capsicum Lobelia Boneset Pleurisy root Scullcap
Fever (Malarial)
Barberry Pleurisy root Capsicum
Fever (Peritonitis)
Echinacea Lobelia
Fever (Pneumonia)
Pleurisy root Bonset Motherwort Feverfew
Ginger Pennyroyal
Fever (Pleurisy)
Pleurisy root Scullcap Boneset Ginger Pennyroyal
Fever (Typhoid)
Geranium Bayberry Echinacea Motherwort Passiflora
Boneset Pipsissewa
Fever (Scarlet)
Lobelia
Fever (Puerperal infection)
Echinacea Feverfew Myrrh
Fever (Smallpox)
Lobelia Pennyroyal
Flatulence (wind colic)
Sweet flag Catnip Chamomile
CLINICAL INDEX 215
Gangrenous Conditions
Echinacea Myrrh
Gastritis (Chronic)
Bayberry Hydrastis Chionanthus Sweet flag
Goitre
Bayberry Oak Bark Sea weed
Gout
Couch grass
Gall Stones
Chionanthus Bitter root
Gravel
Couch grass Corn silk Shave grass Knot grass
Buchu Hemlock
Headache (Bilious)
Poplar Bark Chionanthus Hydrastis
Hard Drinkers, Remedies
Chionanthus Capsicum Passiflora Feverfew
Headache (Chronic or Stomach)
Primrose Motherwort
Headache (Nervous)
Cypripedium Pulsatilla
Headache (Menstrual)
Pulsatilla Mitchella
216 CLINICAL INDEX
Headache (Sick, or Gastric)
Pulsatilla
Heart (weakness)
Scullcap Capsicum Lobelia Cactus
Hemorrhages (nose, lungs, stomach and bowels)
Geranium Shave grass Witch hazel Bayberry
Hemorrhages (Uterine)
Bayberry Red raspberry Hydrastis
Hysteria
Cypripedium Scullcap Passiflora Pennyroyal Tansy
Indigestion (Acute)
Lobelia Poplar bark Hydrastis Chionanthus
Bitterroot Dandelion
Indigestion (Atonic)
Hydrastis Gentian Capsicum St. John's Wort
Indigestion (Flatulence and Eructions)
Feverfew Calamus
Indigestion (Intestinal)
Hydrastis
Inflammation (Acute)
Witch hazel
Insomnia
Cypripedium Scullcap Motherwort Passiflora
CLINICAL INDEX 217
Jaundice
Chionanthus Bitter root Poplar bark Feverfew
Barberry Bitter herb Couch grass
Jaundice (Gestation)
Chionanthus
Kidney
Motherwort Corn silk Juniper berries Couch grass
Poplar bark Shave grass
Kidney, Mucus
Motherwort Linden flowers
Lactation, Aid to
Squaw vine Milkwort
Leucorrhoea
Geranium Hydrastis Bayberry Pulsatilla Bearberry
Pond Lily Sumac Witch Hazel Red Raspberry
Pipsissewa Tormentil
Liver and Spleen
Barberry Bitter herb Dandelion Chionanthus Ceanothus
Liver (Acute Inflammation)
Chionanthus
Liver (Engorgement)
Dandelion
Liver (Dormant)
Motherwort Bitter root Dandelion
218 CLINICAL INDEX
Liver (Torpid)
Hydrastis Barberry Gentian Bitter herb
Bitter root Rosemary
Lockjaw
Lobelia Silverweed
Malassimilation
Bitter herb Chionanthus Hydrastis
Marasmus
Myrrh
Melancholy
Chamomile Cypripedium Ceanothus Pulsatilla
Menstrual Irregularities
Chamomile Cypripedium Scullcap Squaw vine Feverfew
Pulsatilla Pennyroyal Pipsissewa Tansy
Mouth and Gums (sore)
Geranium Hydrastis Bayberry Echinacea Myrrh
Ceanothus White Pond Lily
Nervine
Valerian Scullcap Lady Slipper Capsicum
Hydrastis Celery
Nervousness
Scullcap Lady Slipper Feverfew Passiflora
Pulsatilla Valerian
CLINICAL INDEX 219
Neuralgia
Lady Slipper Pulsatilla Bitter root
Neuritis
Motherwort
Night Sweats
Geranium Sage Myrrh
Nipples (sore)
Squaw vine Myrrh Tannic acid
Nutrition and Blood Making
Bayberry Pulsatilla Lady Slipper
Parturition, made easy
Bayberry Squaw vine Feverfew
Poisonous Insects and Reptiles (bites)
Echinacea Lobelia Scullcap
Polypus (Nasal)
Geranium
Prostate (Enlarged)
Couch grass Chionanthus Pulsatilla Pipsissewa
Pruritis
Witch hazel Hemlock
Rectal (Ulceration)
Hydrastis
220 CLINICAL INDEX
Bespiratory (Congestion)
Lobelia Pleurisy root
Rheumatism
Motherwort Pipsissewa Primrose Couch grass
Bitter root Burdock Macrotys Scurvy grass
Rheumatism (Articular)
Primrose Motherwort
Rheumatism (Chronic)
Myrrh Motherwort Pipsissewa Bitter root
Rheumatism (Gonorrhoea!)
Pipsissewa Scurvy grass
Confinement (Rigid os)
Lobelia
Scrofula and Scurvy
Bayberry Echinacea Pipsissewa Yellow Dock Dandelion
Bitter root Bitter sweet Burdock Sweet flag
Sexual Diseases (Gonorrhoea and Gleet)
Geranium root Hydrastis Poplar Bark Bearberry
Hemlock Scurvy grass Tormentil
Sexual (Undue Excitement)
Scullcap Pulsatilla
Sex Power (Increase)
Pulsatilla Acorns Oats
CLINICAL INDEX 221
Sores and Wounds (Infected)
Echinacea Myrrh
Spasms (Infantile)
Passiflora
Spermatorrhoea
Pulsatilla
Spleen
Ceanothus Bayberry
Sprains, Bruises and Swellings
Chamomile Myrrh
Spring (Remedy)
Rosemary Rhubarb Dandelion
Stomachic
Hydrastis Gentian Capsicum
Stomach (Bitters)
Hydrastis Anthemis Berberis Rhubarb Capsicum
Stomach (Debilitated)
Hydrastis Chamomile
Stomach (Flaccid)
Bayberry Gentian
Stomach (Worms)
Bitter herb
222 CLINICAL INDEX
Syphilis
Barberry Echinacea Ceanothus Poplar bark
Bitter root Bitter sweet Yellow dock
Teething
Chamomile
Throat (Sore)
Bayberry Myrrh Ceanothus Mallow Flowers
Tonsilitis
Echinacea
Ulcers
Myrrh Echinacea Calendula Shave grass
Bittersweet ointment
Ulcers (Gastric)
Geranium Hydrastis Pleurisy root
Ulcers (Indolent)
Myrrh Calendula
Urine (Incontinence and Scaldy)
Couch grass Sumac Tansy Buchu Cleavers
Urine (Scanty and Painful)
Chionanthus Motherwort Corn silk Shave grass
Poplar bark Pipsissewa Hemlock Sumac
Red Raspberry Spearmint Burdock
Dandelion Cleavers
CLINICAL INDEX 223
Uric Acid
Corn silk
Uterine (Dressings)
Calendula Hydrastis Geranium Pond Lily
Uterus (Prolapsed)
Bay berry Witch hazel
Uterine and Vaginal Ulceration
Hydrastis Calendula Bearberry Pond Lily
Venereal Diseases (Chronic)
Geranium Hydrastis Couch grass Pulsatilla Poplar bark
Bearberry Hemlock Witch hazel Red Raspberry
Burdock Pipsissewa Buchu Cleavers
Scurvy grass Tormentil
Vermifuge
Feverfew Pumpkin seed
Vitalizer (Female)
Motherwort Pulsatilla Mitchella
Weakness (Female)
Geranium Motherwort Mitchella Pulsatilla
Water Brash (Burning Eructions)
Sweet flag
224 CLINICAL INDEX
Worms (Tape)
Male fern Pumpkin seed
Youth (Culture)
Pulsatilla Shave grass Oat beards
GENERAL INDEX
Abdominal disturbances, 125
Abscess, 74, 94, 122, 154
Acidosis, 166
Agrimony, 75, 143, 168
Ague, 152, 153, 166
Alfalfa, 143
Allspice, 143
Amenorrhea, 112, 117
Anemia, 116, 153, 167
Angina pectoris, 43, 44, 45, 48, 86, 167
Anise, 145
Anorexia, 116
Antitoxin, 74, 81
Anuria, 45
Apathy, 116
Aphonia, 87
Apoplexy, 25, 39, 43, 44, 45, 54
Appendicitis, 39, 167
Apple Tree bark, 118
Arteries, hardening, 189
Arthritis, 45, 89, 105, 121, 134, 141
Asclepias, 38, 111
Asparagus, 145
Asthma, 23, 30, 43, 45, 48, 54, 71, 86, 87,
89, 162, 168
Astringent, 107
Ataxia, 168
Balm, 145
Balm of Gilead, 146
Balmony, 54
Barberry, 54, 59, 60, 120, 186
Barley, 121
Barley water, 40
Barosma, buchu, 69, 70, 74, 76, 173
Bath, internal, 36
Bath, pack or steam, 29, 33, 53
Bayberry, 40, 52, 53, 54, 56, 60, 61, 77,
79, 107, 167, 180, 182, 186, 187
Bearberry, 62, 146, 173
Bearsfoot, 63
Bed-sores, 98
Bedwetting, 75, 136, 143, 168
Bitter root, 54, 63, 183, 186
Bitters, 54
Bittersweet, 64, 146, 184
Blackberry, 138, 147, 153, 159, 182
Black Cohosh, 65, 76, 109, 117, 148
Black currant leaves, 121
Black haw, 80, 113, 117, 168, 170, 178
Black root, 147
Black willow, 66
Bladder, 69, 73, 75, 111, 152, 158, 161,
173
Blazing star, 173
Bleeding, lungs, 22
Bleeding, stomach, 22
Blood perversions, 74, 120
Blood poisoning, see septicema
Blood purifier, 141
Bloodroot, 148
Blueberry, 62, 66, 121, 179
Blue Cohosh, 113, 117, 148, 152, 173, 174
Blue flag, 67
Boneset, 38, 68, 104, 153, 177, 185
Bran, 53
Bright's Disease, 169, 184
Bronchitis, 23, 43, 45, 46, 54, 78, 82, 87,
89, 148, 169, 170
Broncho-pneumonia, 45
Broncho-pulmonic disease, 61
Broom, 149
Bruises, 55, 100, 115, 118, 153, 165
Bryony, European white, 149
Buckhorne, Drake, 149
Bugleweed, 150
Burdock, 70, 109, 117, 137, 184
Burns, 64, 93, 94, 118, 126, 147, 165
Butternut, 150, 151, 177, 181
Cactus, 70, 86, 87, 188
Calcari, Urinary, 170
Calculous affections, 73
Caluba, 150
Cancer, 33, 34, 40, 161, 171
Cancerous cachexia, 74
Canker, 19, 53
Capsicum (Cayenne pepper), 15, 19, 20,
24, 32, 39, 40, 43, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51,
54, 56, 60, 68, 78, 82, 84, 99, 100,
104, 109, 127, 134, 166, 167, 168
Carbuncles, 74
Cardiac disorders, 70
Caroid, 122
225
226 GENERAL INDEX
Cascara sagrada, 144, 145, 151, 177
Catarrh. 30, 60, 68, 80, 87, 94, 96, 120,
126, 131, 162, 173, 183
Cathartics, 38, 144, 156
Catnip, 38. 174, 176, 185
Cayenne pepper, see Capsicum
Centaury, American, 144
Cervical erosions, 128
Chafing, 94
Chamomile, common, 71, 92, 176, 184,
185
Chancres, 142
Cherry bark, 40
Chest pain, 43, 44, 167
Chestnut, sweet, 151
Chickenpox, 49, 163, 174, 185
Chills, 22, 51, 56, 68, 79, 85, 127, 153,
157, 166
Chionanthus, 115, 120
Chlorosis, 31, 94, 174
Cholemia, 82
Cholera, 24, 39, 52, 55, 80, 107, 144, 175
Chorea,91,92,118
Chronic congestions, 33
Chronic dyspepsia, 25
Clitoric adhesions, 66
Clivers, 73, 152
Cloves, 56
Clysters, 36
Colds, 23, 30, 38, 52, 56, 68, 73, 87, 100,
104, 112, 123, 127, 131, 132, 135,
149, 155, 156, 163, 164
Cold sores, 19, 55
Colic, 24, 36, 73, 82, 83, 84, 102, 126, 127,
130, 133, 144, 145, 148, 159, 162,
175
Colic root, 173
Colitis, 88, 156
Collapse, 99
Coltsfoot, 122, 141
Comfrey, 111, 123, 172, 175
Coneflower, Echinacea, 20, 31, 37, 38,
40, 55, 70, 74, 77, 82, 89, 93, 98,
99, 100, 104, 110, 172, 179, 184
Congestion, 99
Constipation, 67, 84, 144, 150, 151, 156,
176
Consumption, 31, 78, 80, 89
Convalescence, 60
Convulsions, 22, 27, 43, 46, 54, 101
Coriander, 153, 174
Corn silk, 75, 111, 168, 173, 179, 181, 187
Coryza, 69, 177
Couch-grass, 75, 76, 111, 169, 173, 187
Cough, 43, 48, 86, 87, 112, 122, 123, 126,
129, 132, 141, 143, 146, 148, 149,
150,151,155,156,164,165,178
Cramps, 80, 102, 109, 127, 148, 159
Cranberry, upland, 107
Cranesbill, 69, 77, 94, 182
Croup, 22, 43, 45, 46, 54, 132, 177
Crowfoot, 77
Cuts, 100, 153
Cystic irritation, 75, 149
Dandelion, 75, 102, 125, 137, 149, 182,
184
Delirium, 91, 97
Dementia, 92, 178
Depression, 66, 81, 91, 92, 95, 1 18
Dermatitis, allergic, 86
Despondency, 89
Dewberry, 159
Diabetes, 62, 66, 69, 121, 178
Diaphoresis, 68
Diarrhoea, 24, 37, 52, 60, 61, 62, 77, 79,
94,107,108,118,121,138,140,
144, 147, 149, 179
Digestive disturbances, 50, 85, 106, 160
Digestive stimulants, 201
Diphtheria, 43, 46, 52, 54, 74, 98, 180
Discharges, mucous, 80
Diuretic, 73, 93, 131, 146, 161
Dizziness, 67
Dogwood, American, 79, 152
Dogwood, Jamaica, 80
Dropsy, 26, 102, 125, 135, 181
Dwarf elder, 125
Dysentery, 24, 36, 39, 56, 61, 62, 77, 79,
88,107,108,113,118,121,138,
165, 182
Dysmenorrhea, 43, 46, 65, 80, 93, 95, 97,
112, 113, 117, 133
Dyspepsia, 24, 25, 68, 72, 83, 84, 89, 116,
131, 144, 151, 153, 160, 183
Dyspnoea, 43, 86, 87, 93
Dysuria, 183
GENERAL INDEX 227
Earache, 96, 126, 154
Ear wax, 131
Eczema, 28, 64, 73, 86, 114, 137, 184
Elder, American, 153
Elder, dwarf, 182
Elecampane, 80
Emesis, 48
Emetic herb, 42
Emetics, 21
Emotional manifestations, 73, 118
Endocarditis, 184
Enema, 38, 39
Enteritis, 108
Epilepsy, 24, 43, 46
Equisetum Arvenes, 91
Erosions, 122
Eructions, 82, 130, 139
Eruptive diseases, 30, 117, 185
Erysipelas, 74
Eupatorium, 38
Exanthema, 70
Exhaustion, 110
Eyebright, 126
Eyes, 77, 118, 165
Fauces, 148
Fennel, 126, 176
Fever, 22, 31, 38, 56, 61, 68, 74, 91, 101,
109,111,133,136,145,155,
157, 163, 166, 184, 185
Feverfew, 82
Fissures, 142
Fits, 51
Flatulence, 73, 82, 133, 145, 162
Flax-seed, 44, 118,127
Fringe tree, 63, 76, 83, 84, 90, 115, 166,
183, 186, 188
Gagroot, 42
Gall-stones, 63, 83, 84, 186
Gangrene, 37, 38, 55, 74, 98, 100, 186
Gastric disturbances, 130, 159
Gastritis, 61, 79, 108, 186
Gentian, American, 85
Gentian, yellow, 84, 136, 153, 166, 183
Geranium maculatum, 69
Ginger (Zingiber), 39, 56, 61, 98, 127,
153, 176, 178, 183
Glandular diseases, 64
Gleet, 62, 77, 118
Goitre, 60, 131, 187
Goldenseal, 60, 63, 70, 75, 76, 83, 84, 85,
90, 94, 98, 106, 107, 109, 115, 119,
136, 153, 166, 167, 173, 174, 177,
179, 180, 181, 183, 184, 186, 187,
188
Gonorrhoea, 62, 73, 76, 140, 142
Gout, 24, 31, 76
Gravel, 69, 75, 76, 91, 111, 129, 187
Grippe, 68, 69, 194
Guarana, 154
Gum plant, 85
Gynecological disorders, 93
Hawthorn, 86, 188
Headache, 24, 26, 66, 67, 72, 91, 94, 106,
126, 135, 147, 154, 188
Heart, 43, 44, 48, 51, 93, 97
Heatstroke, 43, 46
Hematemesis, 118
Hemlock, 53, 56, 128, 187
Hemoptysis, 118
Hemorrhages, 77, 78, 79, 107, 138, 140,
150
Hemorrhagic diphtheria, 43, 46
Hemorrhoids, 115, 118
Hepatic conditions, 67
Herb tea, 51
Hiccoughs, 151
Hoarseness, 126, 155, 156
Hollyhock, 169
Hops, 53, 72, 118, 154,170,183
Horehound, 87, 101, 102, 111, 123
Horse chestnuts, 118
Hydrastis, 60, 98, 104, 108, 115, 120, 134
Hydrophobia, 51, 110
Hypertension, 86, 189
Hypochondria, 91
Hysteria, 24, 31, 43, 46, 50, 57, 91, 92,
95,97,109,110,118,139,155,191
Ignata amara, 155
Impetigo, 86
Indian tobacco, see Lobelia
Indigestion, 22, 52, 67, 82, 183, 191
Indigo, wild, 70, 77, 88, 108
Infantile convulsions, 43, 46
Infections, 74
Inflammation, 23, 45
Inflammatory diseases, 29
228 GENERAL INDEX
Influenza, 68
Injections, 36
Insect bites, 55, 74
Internal heat, 54
Intestinal irritations, 121
Intestinal spasms, 43, 46
Iodine, 90
Irritations, 84
Ivy poison, 85
Jasmine, Carolina, 177
Jaundice, 26, 30, 60, 63, 76, 83, 84, 115,
157, 192
Juniper berries, 128
Kelp, 90
Kidney infections, 62, 73, 75, 107, 111,
149, 152, 158, 161, 193, 194
Knotgrass, 91, 129, 187
Lactation remedy, 130
Lady's slipper, American valerian, 39,
56,72,91,110,167,168,178,183,
185, 188
Laryngitis, 87, 148
Laxative, 64
Lesions, 142
Leukorrhoea, 61, 66, 77, 93, 94, 95, 106,
108, 118, 128, 138, 194
Life root, 92
Lily-of-the-valley, 93
Linden flowers, 123, 129, 155
Lippia, 165
Liver, 26, 59, 84, 131, 135, 147, 151, 157,
163, 195, 196
Lobelia ( Indian tobacco) , 18, 20, 22, 23,
25, 26, 27, 28, 30, 31, 38, 39, 42, 43,
44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53,
60, 61, 63, 64, 68, 72, 84, 85, 100,
104, 105, 123, 133, 137, 152,
167, 168, 169, 170, 178, 185
Lockjaw, 39, 51
Lumbago, 24, 31, 134
Lungs, 22, 23
Lymphatic engorgement, 105
Malaria, 68, 157, 196
Mallow, marsh, 156, 173, 174, 175
Malnutrition, marasmus, 115, 196
Mammitis, 63
Mandrake, American, 156, 186
Marigold, 93, 106, 184, 186
May-flower, 94, 130
Measles, 21, 30, 49, 70, 163, 184, 185
Melancholia, 66, 70, 89, 130, 155, 196
Meningitis, 39, 54
Menopause, 92, 116
Menorrhagia, 79, 93, 112, 113
Menstruation, 62, 91, 94, 113, 118, 130,
148, 159, 197
Mercurial cachexia, 61
Migraine, 43, 46
Milkweed, 169
Milkwort, 113, 130
Miscarriage, 116
Moles, 142
Morbid conditions, 37, 186
Morning sickness, 130, 156
Motherwort, 72, 76, 97, 109, 135, 136,
166, 178, 188
Mouth and gums, sore, 77, 99, 118, 143,
165
Muco-enteritis, 61
Mullein, 131, 168
Mumps, 96
Muscular aches, 141
Muscular rigidity, 44
Myrrh, 31, 37, 38, 39, 40, 52, 55, 60, 77,
81, 98, 100, 106, 108, 111, 113, 170,
173,175,180,181,182,186
Myrtillus, 67
Nasal congestion, 126, 148
Natura System, 13, 42, 59
Nephritis, 76
Nervous affections, 57, 73, 80, 91, 92, 95,
101,109,110,116,133,158,197
Neuralgia, 24, 26, 31, 44, 48, 80, 91, 94,
198
Neuritis, 198
Neurosis, 92, 116, 118
Night sweats, 136
Oak bark, Quercus robur, 131
Oak poison, 85
Oatmeal water, 40
Oats, oat beard, 132, 167
Onion, 132
Orchitis, 45
GENERAL INDEX 229
Ovarian, 43, 45, 46, 54, 112, 117
Ovarian neuralgia, 65
Palpitation, 93, 97
Palsy, 31
Pasque flower, 167, 178, 188
Passion flower, 64, 92, 100, 110, 114,178,
188
Peach tree, 156,173, 174,181
Peevishness, in children, 133
Pennyroyal, 50, 51, 109, 117, 133, 174,
176, 185
Peppermint, 101, 174, 176, 177
Pepsin deficiency, 122
Peritonitis, 30, 55, 74, 104, 198
Periwinkle, Gaultheria, 171, 172
Peruvian bark, cinchona, 68, 152, 157,
167, 177
Pharyngitis, 45, 128, 148
Pheasant eye, 185
Pike weed, 42
Piles, 36, 62, 64, 147
Pink root, 157
Pipsissewa, 102, 179, 182
Pleurisy, 23, 45, 52, 103, 104, 111, 127,
198
Pleurisy root, 32, 38, 68, 73, 82, 87, 103,
113,127,133,170,174,177,178,
185
Pleuritis, 82
Pneumonia, 45, 46, 49, 52, 54, 82, 103,
104,111,127,199
PoVe root, 93, 103. 105
Pond lily, white, 53, 106
Poplar. Ouaking Aspen, 54, 62, 102,
106.180,182,188
Potassium permanganate, 38, 39
Poultices, 44, 45
Precordial oppression, 43
Pregnancy, 27
Prickly ash. 103, 134
Primrose, 80, 135
Proctitis, 66. 108
Prostate, enlarged, 76, 93
Prostatis, 66, 69, 199
Prostration. 99
Pruritus ani, 94
Puerperal fever, 27, 74, 82, 199
Pulmonary apoplexy, 44
Pulsatilla, 66, 155
Purulent cystitis, 76
Queen-of-the-meadow root, 158
Queen's root, 64, 114, 147, 169, 184
Quinsy, 88
Racemosa, 123
Raspberry, 51, 53, 107, 119, 159, 175, 182
Rectal conditions, 138
Red clover, 158, 172
Red root, Jersey tea, 89, 90
Restlessness, 97, 110, 133
Rhatany, 89, 108
Rheumatism, 23, 31, 45, 55, 64, 65, 70,
76, 89, 102, 105, 108, 121, 134,
135, 141, 165, 200
Rheumatism, root, wild yam, 108, 186
Rheumatoid disorders, 66
Rhinitis, sinusitis, 128, 148, 200
Rhubarb, 137, 144, 180
Rigid os, 46
Rosemary, 53, 135, 136
Rue, 159
Sage, 136
St. John's wort, 136, 160, 183
St. Vitus dance, 65
Salivation, 77
Salpingitis, 74
Sandalwood, 76
Sarsaparilla, American and Mexican,
160
Sassafras, 135, 164
Saw Palmetto, 76
Scalds, 64, 94, 126, 147
Scarlatina, 70
Scarlet fever, 21, 22, 30, 49, 61, 184, 200
Scititicn 65
Scrofula, 31, 33, 34, 61, 64, 70, 102, 134,
138, 139
Scurvy grass, 76, 140
Scutellaria, 103, 111
Senna, wild American, 144, 145
Septicemia (blood poisoning) , 55, 74
Septic infections, 74
Seven barks, 169
Shave grass, 91, 111, 129, 187
Sheep's Sorrel, 161
Shepherd's Purse, 161, 168, 173, 181
230 GENERAL INDEX
Shock, 27, 99
Silverwood, 137
Skin diseases, 28, 64, 70, 120, 125, 128,
147, 165, 184
Skullcap, 32, 68, 87, 104, 109, 133, 170,
173, 174, 179, 180,181, 183
Skunk-cabbage, 161
Sleeplessness or insomnia, 73, 80, 91,
110, 192
Slippery elm, 44, 162
Smallpox, 21, 30, 49, 200
Snakebites, 55, 74, 110
Snakeroot, 163, 184, 185
Sores, 93, 94, 153
Sore throat, 23, 52, 61, 98, 99
i n 3.srn s 54
Spearmint, 101, 102, 111, 174, 176, 185
Spermatorrhoea, 94, 142
Spikenard, 164, 165, 170
Spinal meningitis, 43, 46
Spleen, 131
Sprains, 55, 100
Springfever, 52
Squaw vine, 72, 112, 113, 167, 183, 188
Squaw weed, Senecio aureus, 117
Stangury, 76
Stickwort, 103
Stomach, 22, 40, 139, 143, 150, 151, 157,
163
Strawberry leaves, 67, 137
Sumach, 53, 138
Sundew, 114
Sweet flag, 139, 166, 186
Sweet violet, 141
Syphilis, 33, 34, 61, 64, 74, 134, 161
Syrup, 151, 159
Swollen joints, 55
Tansy, 139
Tetanus, 43, 46, 54, 137
Tetterwort, 186
Thomsonian, 5, 29, 42, 59
Thyme, 67, 162
Thyroid gland remedy, 67, 90
Tonsillitis, 43, 45, 46, 74, 88, 128
Tormentil, 140
Touch-me-not, 114
Toxemia, 74
Traumatic injuries, 94
Tuberculosis, 33, 34, 46, 54, 60, 80, 118,
120
Tumors, 33, 34, 83
Turtle-head, 115, 163
Typhoid fever, 52, 55, 61, 68, 70, 74, 77,
81, 88, 101, 108, 201
Ulcerations, 94, 115, 128, 159
Ulcers, 78, 98, 122, 201
Umbil, 56, 57
Unicorn root, false, 116, 179
Uremia, 82
Urethra, 66, 75, 107
Urinary diseases, 30, 69, 75, 111, 119,
142, 149, 150
Urine difficulties, 202
Uterine disorders, 54, 94, 97, 112
Uterine dressings, 202
Uterine hemorrhage, 23, 52, 60
Vaginitis, 128, 162
Varioloid, 30
Vervain, European, 140, 141
Vesical atony, 142
Violet bloom, 140
Virginia snakeroot, 116
Virginitis, 66
Vomitroot, 42
Vulvae, 94
Wahoo, 153, 177
Warts, 142
Watercress, 141, 168
White Cohosh, 117
White Oak Bark, 118, 187
White pine, 164
Whites, (fluoralbus),62, 140
Whooping cough, 23, 43, 46, 48, 89, 114,
121, 140, 141, 149, 151, 157, 158,
162
Wild cherry, 123, 164, 175, 178, 179
Wintergreen, 165
Witch hazel, 37, 40, 53, 107, 118, 165,
170, 180, 182
Worms, 115, 157
Wormseed, 186
Wounds, 84, 93, 99, 115, 137
Yellow cedar, 141
Yellow dock, 102, 147
Zymotic diseases, 49
