{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1aaron_e_nde.html","mytitle":"Aaron E NDE 4733","mylang":"de"}
          	        Aaron E NDE 4733  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Aaron E NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2396 Aaron E NDE 4733  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					When I was thirteen I broke my neck, which was a remarkable type of break 'C-1' in three places. I had caused the neck break by running into a brick wall more than once running with head down. I hit the wall three times and finely fell down. I was a child with a temper. And if you were to tell me something I would throw a fit. Well as I had fell to the ground, my body was shaking really badly as to what family had told me.

As my soul was leaving my body, I felt at peace. Than I saw myself kneeling in front of a light. I wasn't scared, I was just asking for mercy. This was after my body was at a cold still. I had heard a voice calling to me and it is still stuck in my head. The voice had said to me 'Not your time.'

Then I was back in a broken body. When I got to the hospital, they rushed me to the x-ray machine and had taken x-rays. The doctor had spoken to my mom and gave me a twenty-four hour watch. The next day I had gotten out of bed to go to the bathroom. The doctors rushed in the room all were amazed. They were going to tell my mom that they were going to give me a 50/50 chance of to walk again. I never had neck surgery; I had home therapy. After that experience, I couldn't remember anything of my childhood. I had felt like a totally different person. I have been asking myself all the time, 'Why God did you send me back here?'

Now at the age of thirty-five I have something new to experience, three herniated discs, which are all located next to my heart. I can't ever have surgery to relieve the pain. I deal with pain every day of my life asking myself why? Am I supposed to be only here to deal with pain or what is my life purpose? I have been spiritually messed up for years. I have no path to follow. I am now at the age of thirty-five and disabled. I have been trying to open my third eye by meditation. I do a lot of meditating to try to calm my herniated discs from acting up. I have been praying to God and asking him why but like it or not, no answer. But from time to time I feel like there is a presence watching over me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1988

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Accident.     Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      I think in the afternoon not sure.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I think in the afternoon not sure.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Felt peaceful.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     All around.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Bright light with a strong Voice.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peaceful and confused.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Thank God.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Wicca

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Been very religious confused. Because I pray and sometimes the answer is no or uncertain.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Wicca

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Been very religious confused. Because I pray and sometimes the answer is no or uncertain.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Only had two girlfriends. And I can't seem to find my soul mate.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     There are times I hear voices calling to me when no one is there. When my grandmother died, I wrote to her and asking her to come to me in a dream holding hands with my grandfather. I had saw them smiling and waving at me. Other times, I feel the presence of spirits around me. And I know my own aura color which is white and blue.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, seeing myself kneeling in front of a light. And surviving a serious neck injury I have caused myself.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Twenty-two years and they were confused and shocked and didn't believe me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Was upset and wanted to go back to the peaceful place. I tried to kill myself over the years. I was emotionally confusing for me. Which it is still is to this day.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Very real it was like being on Earth but in a much better, warm place.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It is just a wonderful experience but it would mess you up like me.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1aaron_e_nde.html