{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/NDERF\/Books\/light_love_nde.htm","mytitle":"In Light of Love: The Near-Death Experience and the Bible, by Scott D. Davidson","mylang":"de"}
          	In Light of Love: The Near-Death Experience and the Bible, by Scott D. Davidson                              	            		

          In Light of Love: The Near-Death Experience and the Bible, 
  		   		          by Scott D. Davidson </b></font></span>   
  Home Page  Current NDEs  Share NDE</span>     	</tr>

Academic Background:

Oklahoma State University, Stillwater, Oklahoma: PhD   Student in Geography: August 2005 to January 2006
  Areas of concentration during Graduate work: Social/Human Geography,   specifically focused on the diffusion of religions.

California University of Pennsylvania, California,   Pennsylvania: M.A. in Geography and Regional Planning: August 2004-August   2005&nbsp; 
  Areas of concentration during M.A. work: Regional Planning and Human Geography.

University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania:&nbsp;  B.A. in Rhetoric: June 2000-April 2004
  Areas of concentration during B.A. work: Rhetorical Analysis.

Contact Information:
  scottdoody@gmail.com

  In Light of Love:

  The Near-Death Experience and the Bible

Abstract:&nbsp; The   author explores love as found in the near-death experience (NDE) and love found   in the Bible.&nbsp; A common trait found in NDE and shared by the Bible is the   message that humankind should learn to love one another.&nbsp; This paper will   establish the parallels of love found in the Bible and in the NDE and the   possible implications of these parallels.&nbsp; &nbsp;

Key Words:   Near-death Experience; Bible; Christianity; Love.&nbsp;

  Long after surviving Auschwitz and three   other Nazi prison camps, notable neurologist, psychiatrist, and holocaust   survivor Victor Frankl (1979/1985) felt mankind began to proceed past the point   of fighting for daily survival and encountered a new problem. This is a problem   with a less direct threat than the Nazis presented to Frankl and fellow   holocaust survivors.&nbsp; Once freed from the distractions of the struggles for   daily survival, many began to have the time to devote themselves to improving   their socioeconomic situations in hopes that this would provide happiness.&nbsp; At   the same time, they began to have time to think and devote themselves not just   to surviving but also to identifying a purpose in their lives.&nbsp; Unfortunately,   the improved socioeconomic situations did not provide the expected happiness.&nbsp;   Frankl (1979/1985) explained: 'The truth is that as the struggle for survival   has subsided, the question has emerged: survival for what?&nbsp; Ever more people   today have the means to live but no meaning to live for' (p. 21).&nbsp; Frankl argues   a notable point, much of mankind is dying to live and unsure what to live for   and improved socioeconomics has not made the drive for identifying existential   meaning less desirable.&nbsp; While answering Frankl's question is beyond the scope   of this paper, the focus will be on subjects that claim to have an answer to   Frankl's question: 'survival for what?'

  This paper deals with two subjects that   respond to Frankl's thesis: (1) the near-death experience (NDE) and (2) portions   of the Bible.&nbsp; While on the surface two distinct things, both of these subjects   indicate remarkable similarities between the details from NDEs and directives   found in the Bible.&nbsp; Both claim to have an answer to the question: what is   life's purpose or in other words what is the highest goal to work towards while   one is living?&nbsp;

  Some view the NDE as evidence of life after   mortal existence.&nbsp; The Bible is a source of moral guidance and knowledge for   much of the Christian world (about one-third of the world's population). A   common belief of the NDE, and likewise accounts in the Bible, is the message   that humankind should learn to love one another. Not only is this purpose of   loving one another a common feature of both but it is also the pinnacle   directive of both.

  This text will establish the parallels of   love found in the Bible and in the NDE.&nbsp; It will begin with (1) a brief   explanation of the relevance of the NDE and the concept of love found in NDEs   and near-death research, as well as the experience of this phenomenon of love as   reported by many of those who return from a NDE.&nbsp; Then this text will (2)   consider the Bible and its definition and charge of love. Finally, this text   will (3) use non-rigid abductive reasoning to focus on the symbiotic   relationship between NDEs and the Bible and their homology of love and will form   a hypothesis.&nbsp; Abductive reasoning begins when one examines a number of   ostensibly unrelated or even possibly related facts with the perception that   they are possibly associated.&nbsp; In abductive reasoning, consideration of the   facts suggests the hypothesis, and it is the actual process of inference that   produces a hypothesis as its end result. The hypothesis formed at the end of   this text can later be tested by deduction and induction.&nbsp;

  Shortcomings of this Paper

  First, this paper will be of no use to those   who will not consider the possibility of the NDE and are not open to the idea   that the Bible could possibly be a text composed of divine direction.

  Second, this paper relies on what philosopher   Richard Swinburne (1991) terms arguments from religious experience and from   miracles.&nbsp; Briefly, arguments from religious experience claim that many have   experienced God in some form and thus can testify to others about God's   existence (Swinburne, R., p. 244).&nbsp; This paper relies on a view that many   different people from many different cultures believe that they experienced a   divine phenomenon. &nbsp;Furthermore, Swinburne (1991) suggests that these religious   experiences are the most pointed argument for the existence of God because it is   a claim of actually experiencing God.&nbsp; In this paper, there are many different   people from many different cultures claiming similar supernatural experiences   with a subject called God.&nbsp;

  Arguments from miracles defy all that is   known about the laws governing the physical world and are simply unlikely to   happen without the direct intervention of God.&nbsp; A miracle occurs in direct   violation of the natural laws governing the physical world (Swineburne, R., p.   233).&nbsp; There are many testimonies of miracles and these testimonies support the   miracles.&nbsp; These unnatural occurrences called miracles can offer evidence of God   because: ''it is evidence of the occurrence of events which natural processes do   not have the power to produce' (Swinburne, R., p. 234).&nbsp; Both arguments from   miracles and arguments from religious experience have their weaknesses and may   be scrutinized by analyzing the person making the claim and the many factors   that may have caused the experience, such as religious background, differing   perceptions of reality, deception, visual sensations, lighting, hallucinations,   the mental state of the person, the effects the experiences have on the person   making the claim, and even alcohol or mind altering drugs.&nbsp; Furthermore,   ignorance of the limits of natural laws makes it hard to know if miracles are in   violation of natural laws.

  Third, we must consider that NDE researchers   have long since argued for the NDE to support a particular belief system.&nbsp; A few   notables include Dr. Ken Vincent (2003) arguing for the validity of the Bible   and Christian Universalism.&nbsp; Cardiologist and NDE researcher Michael Sabom   (1995) in Light &amp; Death argues that the NDE supports a more conservative   Christian ideology.&nbsp; Also, the late notable near-death researcher Arvin Gibson   (1992) in Glimpses of Eternity argued that the NDE is evidence of the   authenticity of Mormonism.&nbsp; The quarrels of religious ideologies and the rush to   claim the NDE has naturally carried on over a prolonged period of time. Such   texts as Kenneth Ring's (2000): Religious Wars in the NDE Movement: Some   Personal Reflections on Michael Sabom's Light and Death, and Religious   Wars or Healthy Competition in the NDE Movement? by Arvin Gibson (2000)[1]     recognize this. To deny this study is not weighted towards a certain theological   system would be disingenuous.

  Fourth, this paper does not wish to expand   nor repeat the history of the Bible but rather to briefly focus on the   significant English version of the Bible, that being the KJV (King James   Version).&nbsp; Extra Biblical texts and other similar texts such as Apocrypha,   Pseudepigrapha, Dead Sea Scrolls, Gnostic, Early Church Fathers writings, and   other works are excluded from this study.&nbsp; These excluded texts should not be   ignored and deserve attention in the arena of near-death studies.&nbsp; Likewise,   love highlighted in faith movements that do not use the Bible as one of their   authoritative texts should not be ignored.&nbsp; This includes the teachings of the   importance of love found in other major world religions such as, Islam,   Buddhism, and Hinduism.&nbsp; All purport to some degree the importance of love, but   these similarities in no way take away from the implications of the common theme   and charge of love found in the NDE and the Bible.&nbsp; The scope of this paper is   vast in ambitiously using the Bible as a whole, yet paradoxically narrow in   terms of textual focus with the focus aimed only on the popular and well   received KJV of the Bible and not on other versions of the Bible, extra Biblical   texts, and other movements' works.

  Relevance of the NDE

  A significant Gallup and Proctor poll in 1982   surveyed U.S. adults, and found 5% of those surveyed had a NDE (Gallup and   Proctor, 1982) and similarly in March of 1997, U.S. News and World Report   surveyed and found that 15 million adults in the U.S. had a NDE.&nbsp; Surveys taken   in the U.S., Australia, and Germany suggest that 4 to 15% of the population have   had NDEs (Key Facts about Near-Death Experiences, 2009, p. 2).&nbsp;

  Medical doctor and near-death researcher   Peter Fenwick (2005) found in his own research that 10% of the survivors of   cardiac arrest will report NDEs (p. 141).&nbsp; Dr. Bruce Greyson (2003) found the   same results in his study (pp. 269-276).&nbsp; Some studies have found that cardiac   arrest survivors reporting NDEs can be as high as 25% but on average it appears   that research settles on a 10-20% range of cardiac arrest survivors reporting a   NDE (Fenwick, 2005, 142 and van Lommel, van Wees, Meyers, &amp; Elfferich, 2001,   2039-2045).&nbsp; So what is a near-death experience?&nbsp; A near-death experience can be   defined as a profound psychological event that may occur near-death or in a   situation of physical or emotional crisis.&nbsp; It includes mystical and   transcendental attributes and is a powerful event of consciousness and is not a   mental illness (Greyson, 2000, 315-352).&nbsp; Medical doctor Melvin Morse (1990) a   NDE researcher declares in Closer to the Light:

  The near-death experience is the first   psychological experience to be located within the brain.... By locating the area   for NDEs within the brain, we have anatomy to back up the psychological   experience. We know where the circuit board is.&nbsp; I have reexamined a   generation of scientific research into higher brain function and have found that   the soul hypothesis explains many &quot;unexplained&quot; events. It explains out-of-body   experiences, the sensation of leaving the body and accurately describing details   outside of the body's field of view. Events such as floating out of the physical   body and giving accurate details of one's own cardiac arrest -things a person   couldn't see even if their eyes were open- are virtually impossible to explain   if we do not believe in a consciousness separate from our bodies that could be   called a soul. (p. 170)

Morse and other   researchers have continued to support and mount evidence in support of the NDE,   whereas, studies attempting to medically debunk the NDE have continuously failed   to adequately address NDE apologetics.[2]  &nbsp;

  It has and can continue to be argued, the NDE   is one of the best evidences available to us of the soul's survival beyond the   death of the physical body.&nbsp; The NDE provides a purported glimpse into life   after death something that very few phenomena can claim to do.&nbsp; Moreover, the   NDE fails to discriminate against any individual with exclusive requirements   found in faiths and other movements and rather the NDE provides a mystical   encounter to a percentage of people who find themselves close to death's door.&nbsp;   The only requirement of those who had or will have a NDE is that they need to be   close to death or in a state of physical or emotional crisis. The trigger is   obvious and the effects are radical.&nbsp;

Love   as Found in the NDE

  Strongly, NDErs report feeling overwhelming   love during their NDE, a lack of fearing death, and a purpose for their   existence discovered during their NDE. Much like a Biblical verse that states   its interpretation of the purpose for all mankind in a matter of fact manner,   the NDEr appears to exhibit the same confidence.&nbsp; Encountering an   all-encompassing feeling of love during the NDE is one of the most common   elements of the experience.&nbsp;

  Near-death researcher George Ritchie (1995)   recalls his own NDE involving a heavenly being he described as Jesus: 'Far more   even than power, what emanated from this Presence was unconditional love.&nbsp; An   astonishing love.&nbsp; A love beyond my wildest imagining.&nbsp; This love knew every   unlovable thing about me...and accepted and loved me just the same' (p. 49).&nbsp; In   another encounter, NDEr Ann recollects, 'Somehow I knew, inside of me, that the   earth had been left behind.&nbsp; I had no idea where I was, and I didn't care. I   felt a deep, profound peace...no, it was more than that.&nbsp; It was a world of   peace and love' (Gibson, A., 1992, 238).&nbsp; NDEr Neddie Pitcher remembers in her   own encounter:

  'I don't remember being hit, but I do   remember standing above my body and watching what was going on.&nbsp; [My husband]   Vern had not seen the car hit me.&nbsp; He only heard the thud of my body hitting the   car, and the headlight glass breaking...I remember trying to reach out to Vern   to comfort him, but I couldn't do it.&nbsp; I left the scene of the accident at this   point and traveled through a gray mist that became lighter as I traveled   upward.&nbsp; Eventually the fog gave way to brilliant light as I entered a beautiful   garden...more beautiful than anything I have seen on earth... 'My daughter, what   are you doing here?' asked a voice from behind.&nbsp; I turned and saw a man in white   whose radiance and love astonished me...As he spoke, and as I felt the love and   light that radiated from him, I believed he was my father in heaven.' (Nelson,   1988, 123-124)&nbsp;

Shortly thereafter   Neddie Pitcher returned to her body and she later revealed this revelation from   her NDE:

  Sometimes as we go through life we say and   do things that hurt others, and we let those words or deeds build up and won't   forget them...Hurt feelings and hate become like cancer-eating away our hearts.&nbsp;   I know now that with love we can conquer anything.&nbsp; With love we can forgive and   be forgiven. (Nelson, L., p. 133)&nbsp;

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; In  Light and Death, Michael Sabom (1998) records a NDE where the survivor   encounters a heavenly being: 'I began to weep, crying, feeling his love.&nbsp; Not   sorrowfully, but just out of the feeling that I had never felt that kind of love   before, ever' (p. 95).&nbsp; Similarly, another NDE survivor recalled: 'I was filled   with love and peace that I can only describe&nbsp;and can never do it justice. I was   so loved and accepted. I had never felt so loved in all my life. The peace,   serenity, joy, and no pain was unbelievable!' (Filled with Love and Peace,   2010). These recollections of love felt while near-death or after pronouncements   of death are commonly reported when the survivor returns to life.

  Twentieth century near-death researchers have   found that love is central to the near-death experience, just as these NDErs   have reported (Moody, R. 1979, p. 65 and p. 93; Ring, K. 1998, p. 187; Atwater,   P.M.H 1989, p. 33).&nbsp; The Journal of Near-Death Studies states in their 'Key   Facts about Near-Death Experiences' that the most commonly reported type of NDE   involves intense feelings of peace, joy, and love, and often an encounter with   an unconditionally loving light (Key Facts about Near-Death Experiences, 2009,   1).&nbsp; A number of near-death researchers specifically focused on the phenomena of   love found in the NDE.

  Peter Fenwick (2005) wrote that love and   light are absolutely fundamental to the dying experience (pp. 151 &amp; 153).&nbsp; Light   is another element reported by people having a NDE.&nbsp; Ken Vincent (2003) wrote:   'the overwhelming amount of data leaves no doubt that the Light experienced by   the NDEr radiates love' (p. 63).&nbsp; Liz Dale (2007) broke ground when she wrote of   gay/lesbian/bisexual/transgender individuals and their NDEs, including the   overwhelming feelings of love that they felt (pp. 173-174, &amp; 177).&nbsp; This   research further supports an argument for the possibility of an all loving   creator.&nbsp; Michael Sabom (1998) found in his studies that overwhelmingly NDErs   felt love and a need to increase love for others (p.&nbsp; 227).&nbsp; NDE researcher Jody   Long (2010) found in her own research, 'Typically, love is the one emotion that   is mentioned as the overriding message of the entire NDE' (p. 9).&nbsp;

  The feeling of love is a central attribute of   the NDE.&nbsp; Love felt during the NDE is thoroughly established by substantial   near-death researchers.&nbsp; The near-death research field is full of accounts that   support the claim that love is one of the most commonly reported emotions   described after a NDE and often the most notable of feelings.&nbsp; Just as Kenneth   Ring (1998) states: '...of all the lessons of the NDE, none is greater than the   importance, indeed the primacy, of love.&nbsp; And what the NDE teaches about love is   that everything is love, and is made of love, and comes from love' (p. 187).&nbsp;

  After going through a NDE and feeling this   overwhelming sense of love, many individuals feel a transformation and a need   for reevaluation of their purpose and values.&nbsp; Survivors of NDEs not only have a   story to tell but they also have an answer to give Victor Frankl (1979/1985) and   those who search for purpose and meaning to life.&nbsp; NDErs report finding an   existential purpose based on the phenomenon of love.&nbsp; As one NDEr recalled:

  I remember feeling angry and fearful about   going back - after being in all of this light - to have to go back to darkness.&nbsp;   And then I felt the presence of Jesus Christ all around me.&nbsp; The feeling of love   was completely overwhelming...I asked him, 'Do I really have to go back?'&nbsp; And   his answer was that I was part of God's divine plan, as is every person, and   that my ultimate purpose is to love and serve God and all sentient beings.   (Dale, 2001, pp. 35-36)

Peggy Holladay,   another NDEr, states: 'One thing I [learned] was that we are ALL here to do an   'assignment of love' (Ring, 1998, p. 47).&nbsp; Likewise, another NDEr recalled: 'We   are here to love each other and learn. That's the message. I want everyone to   know that it is real there, more real than here...' (Love Each Other and Learn,   2010).

  Raymond Moody (1979) deduced from his   landmark book, Life After Life, that we are to learn to love others and   that our purpose while on earth is to love one another (pp. 41 &amp; 45).&nbsp; Likewise,   he also penned in The Light Beyond, 'Love is why we are here, it's the   most important thing in life' (Moody, 1989, p. 41).&nbsp; In Moody's important (1979)   study of the 150 or so people he interviewed he found most become more loving.&nbsp;   William J. Serdahely learned from his near-death studies: '...NDErs...say that   what they learned during their NDEs was the importance of love and loving   others, often phrased as unconditional love; and helping others often said to be   a mission or a purpose yet to be fulfilled' (Serdahely, 1992, p. 182).&nbsp; Also, in  The Near-Death Experience: A Reader (1996) it states that the NDE teaches   the survivor that they are to learn how to 'give love' (Bailey and Yates, p.   326).&nbsp; Michael Sabom wrote that research displayed a consistent overall increase   in the capacity and desire to love after a NDE (Sabom, 1998, p. 93).&nbsp; Arvin   Gibson wrote in Glimpses of Eternity that he discovered in his research:   'Upon returning to this life they [NDEr's] felt that the most important message   they brought back with them was that we should all love everybody else'all the   children of God'with an unconditional love' (Arvin Gibson, 1992, p. 263).&nbsp;

  Much of the credible scholarship in the field   of near-death studies and also the accounts of NDEr's support the claim that   learning to love and loving one another is often reported as a purpose if not   the highest purpose of life for these NDE survivors.&nbsp; If NDErs continually   report the utmost importance of love, then how does this line up with the   teachings of religions, specifically Christianity?&nbsp; Particularly, how do the   teachings found in the widely held sacred religious text, the Bible, hold up   against the claims from NDErs that learning to love one another is the highest   of purposes in life?

  Biblical Love

  The subject of Love is something familiar to   those who have delved into the Bible.&nbsp; There are several versions of the Bible   with the King James Version (KJV) often the most preferred.&nbsp; The KJV is composed   of the Old and the New Testament and is the central text of Christianity. Woven   throughout this version of the Bible are hundreds of statements regarding love.   These statements use love as a verb, noun, abstract state, and a charge to   action.

  The KJV defines love as charitable, patient,   kind, non-envious, non-boastful, not proud, not rude, not easily provoked,   rejoiceful in righteousness, rejoiceful in truth, enduring, hopeful, positive,   unwavering, never failing (1 Corinthians 13), being kind towards neighbors   (Ephesians 4: 31) being law abiding (Romans 13:10), and commandment keeping (2   John 1:6).&nbsp; The KJV was translated primarily from Greek and published in 1611.&nbsp;   In the Greek language there are four words for love.&nbsp; Storge refers to   the natural affection parents have for their children.&nbsp; Eros is romantic   or passionate love.&nbsp; Filia is friendship.&nbsp; Agape is unconditional   love.&nbsp; When the KJV uses the word love, it is often agape. Agape is the best fit   for the unconditional love found throughout the KJV.&nbsp;

  Often in the Bible, these appeals to love   spawn from divine direction with splendor and depth.&nbsp; We find statements such as   'let us love one another: for love is of God; and every one that loveth is born   of God, and knoweth God.&nbsp; He that loveth not knoweth not God; for God is Love'   (1 John 4:7-8).&nbsp; In Deuteronomy and Matthew we find that: 'thou shalt love the   Lord thy God with all thine heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy   might' (Deuteronomy 6:5 and Matthew 22:36).&nbsp; In Romans 13:10 we find that love   is law, 'Love worketh no ill to his neighbor: therefore love is the fulfilling   of the law.'&nbsp; 2 John 1:6 asserts: 'And this is love, that we walk after his   commandments.&nbsp; This is the commandment, That, as ye have heard from the   beginning, ye should walk in it.'&nbsp; This suggests that love is a commandment.&nbsp;

  The collection of 66 books composing the KJV   of the Bible, written by many authors in several languages contains the history,   prophecy, and direction of a people.&nbsp; This compiled book contains texts central   to Judaism and Christianity and is a compass to those who hold it sacred.&nbsp; The   direction given from this compass reaches its apex for Christians when the   Pharisee lawyer in an instigating tone queries Jesus, 'which is the greatest   commandment in the law?' and Jesus replies:

  Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all   thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind.&nbsp; This is the first and   great commandment.&nbsp; And the second [is] like unto it, Thou shalt love thy   neighbour as thyself.&nbsp; On these two commandments hang all the law and the   prophets. (Matthew 22: 36-40)

  The obligation of love is reiterated in other   areas of the New Testament as well.&nbsp; In John 13 we find Jesus stating to his   disciples: 'A new commandment I give unto you, That ye love one another; as I   have loved you, that ye also love one another.&nbsp; By this shall all men know that   ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another' (John 13: 34-35).&nbsp; Paul   restates this commandment in Ephesians (Eph. 4:2), Galatians (Gal. 5:13), and   Thessalonians (1 Thes. 3:12 and 1 Thes. 4:9).&nbsp; We find additional direction in   Jesus' Sermon on the Mount, 'I say unto you, Love your enemies, bless them that   curse you, do good to them that hate you,&nbsp; and pray for them which despitefully   use you, and persecute you' (Matthew 5: 44).&nbsp; To the Bible, love arguably is the   most important action a person can do and declarations of the essentiality of   love within human existence pour over the pages.

  The Symbiotic Relationship of the NDE and the   Bible

  The late religious philosopher and literature   professor Eugene England stated: 'If I am marooned on a desert island,   absolutely dependent on finding another human being to comfort and perhaps save   me, the one little swale where I find a single fresh human footprint is more   important, more true, than the other hundreds of square miles where I find   nothing' (Eugene England, 2007, p. 119).&nbsp; It can be argued in later research   that a footprint of divinity and life after death may be found with the   established commonalities of love found in the NDE and in the Bible.&nbsp; What is   argued is that a symbiotic relationship does exist and that it is an absolutely   mutually beneficial relationship that lends credence to each other's claims   based on homologous similarities which point towards common descent.&nbsp; Therefore,   if one believes in the Bible then one needs to also consider the truthfulness of   the NDE and likewise if one believes in the NDE then one needs to also consider   the truthfulness of the Bible.

  The Bible commands that there are no greater   tasks than to love God and to love one another.&nbsp; These are deemed the greatest   commandments and are no different than what NDErs report as the highest purpose   of life.&nbsp; The Bible also purports that God is love.&nbsp; In fact, the very essence   and composition of God is love.&nbsp; This is made very clear with the repetitive   statements to this affect found throughout the Bible.&nbsp; Is this love described in   the Bible the same unconditional love found in the NDE?&nbsp;

  From the NDE we find that the average NDEr   reports learning of the same necessity to learn to love one another as is found   in many descriptions of love in the Bible.&nbsp; Is this charge the very same charge   declared by Jesus in the Bible, to love God and one another?&nbsp; Additionally, the   average NDEr recalls the unconditional love that is experienced.&nbsp; Is this   unconditional love from God or is it God manifesting himself to them?&nbsp; Numerous   possibilities are available for further consideration.

  To ignore the commonalities of the NDE and   the Bible and the possible implications would be disingenuous.&nbsp; So what are the   implications that can be birthed from this symbiotic relationship?&nbsp;

  Using non-rigid abductive reasoning a   hypothesis emerges.&nbsp; A brief description of abduction is as follows, 'Abduction   is an intellectual tool, specifically suited for dealing with incomplete   evidence under high uncertainty in complex real-life situations or in   ill-structured disciplinary fields of knowledge' ( Patakorpi, 2009,  p. 118).&nbsp; The father of abduction, Charles S. Peirce, believed   that abduction is reasoning to obtain the best explanation.&nbsp; Abduction is an   appeal to instinct.&nbsp; 'The abductive suggestion comes to us like a flash.&nbsp; It is   an act of insight albeit extremely fallible insight' (Pence, 1997, p. 157).&nbsp; The   theory of abduction, using hypothesis generation is not hampered by   non-naturalistic explanations.&nbsp; Thus abduction is suited for working with   theological and metaphysical discussions.&nbsp;

  Surely, arguing for the   existence of non-naturalistic explanations concerning the NDE and the Bible   offers little directly observable evidence and thus little empirical base for   non-experiencers but the exceptional should not be bound by the traditional   methods of deduction and induction. Thus abduction serves best in this paper.&nbsp;   For this paper, abduction in the strictest sense is a tool used to generate a   hypothesis.&nbsp; Pierce suggested:

  Abduction is, after all,   nothing but guessing.&nbsp; We are therefore bound to hope that, although the   possible explanation of our facts may be strictly innumerable, yet our mind will   be able, in some finite number of guesses, to guess the sole true explanation of   them...Animated by that hope, we are to proceed to the construction of a   hypothesis. (Peirce, C.S., 1901)

  In this paper, as termed by Swinburne, there   are arguments from religious experience and arguments from miracles both arguing   for the hypothesis that the NDE is a valid experience signaling life after death   and that the Bible is a divine text speaking of human purpose and love. The   Bible states that God is love and claims that loving one another is the greatest   commandment.&nbsp; The NDE is an event where the majority of NDErs felt love and   received the impression that the purpose of life is to love one another.&nbsp;   Therefore, the NDE is in accordance with the Bible, and vice versa.

  It has and can be argued; the closest one can   come to experiencing life after death is the near-death experience.&nbsp; If the   near-death experience verifies the claims of the Bible, then one must consider   that this direction found in the Bible may be correct.&nbsp; In this paper what has   been attempted is to establish the following: the NDE occurs and the NDEr more   often than not reports a feeling of overwhelming love and returns with a   perspective that loving one another is the ultimate purpose of life.&nbsp; The Bible   reports that God is love and defines loving one another as the ultimate purpose   of life.&nbsp; The NDE is full of unconditional love and directions stating that   humankind's purpose is to love one another.&nbsp; Therefore, as suggested above, the   NDE is in accordance with the Bible and likewise the latter is in accordance   with the former.&nbsp; Hence if either one is true, there is reason to suspect that   the other is also true.&nbsp; This hypothesis is accepted on probation in accordance   with the key component of abduction which merely suggests that something may be   and requires no reason, for it merely offers suggestions (Peirce, 1903, p. 189).

  With the NDE validating the Bible and the   Bible validating the NDE then it is necessary for those who believe in either   phenomenon to notice the commonalities.&nbsp; This common element of love and the   magnitude of love's importance in both the NDE and the Bible are much to   established to discount.

  Conclusion

  Much like a complicated piece of art, the NDE   is open to interpretation. Sandro Botticelli's Primavera comes to mind as   an example of an art piece with substantially different understandings.&nbsp; Some   find Primavera to be a political expression. Many have found it filled   with mythological symbolism.&nbsp; Still others have found it to be an illustration   of the Garden of Eden.&nbsp; Just as different interpretations are commonplace in   art, the NDE is a mystical experience open to vast interpretations.&nbsp; To deny the   NDE different meanings for different individuals is to deny diversity.&nbsp; But to   deny the importance and implications of the common feature of love and its   importance as defined and found in the NDE and the Bible is naive.

  At the beginning of this paper Victor Frankl   posed this statement: 'Ever more people today have the means to live but no   meaning to live for' (Frankl, 1979/1985).&nbsp; Frankl knew the answer to his   statement.&nbsp; He found his answer many years before he posed the question in the   most difficult and tragic of life's situations.&nbsp; As the Nazi guards ushered   Jewish prisoner Victor Frankl, and his fellow prisoners, over rough terrain and   misery shouting and assaulting Frankl and the innocent company.&nbsp; Under the worst   of life experiences, Victor Frankl found his meaning as he gazed into the sky   and saw his wife (who he did not know had already died in a different camp at   the hands of the genocidal German soldiers).&nbsp; He recalled:

  ...for the first time in my life I saw the   truth as it is set into song by so many poets, proclaimed as the final wisdom by   so many thinkers. The truth -- that love is the ultimate and the highest goal to   which man can aspire. Then I grasped the meaning of the greatest secret that   human poetry and human thought and belief have to impart: The salvation of man   is through love and in love. (Frankl, 1946/1992, pp. 48-49)

  Frankl's conclusion is the same one that the   Bible and the NDErs purport: that one is here to love.

  Within the growing field of near-death   studies it is difficult to ignore the copious numbers of NDErs who repetitively   record the feelings of love and the need to return to mortal existence on a   mission to love others.&nbsp; Likewise, it is also hard to ignore the commonalities   of love found in the NDE and the writings found throughout the Bible dealing   with love.&nbsp; This overwhelming central message of love and the implications of   this common theme must be considered.

  This paper began with inferences and ends in   a hypothesis.&nbsp; With the established parallel of love found in the NDE and the   Bible, the pinnacle directive of learning to love, and the proclamation of the   necessity to love one another, then an argument for validity and even common   descent can be made.&nbsp; Both claim the same common ancestor, God, and both claim   the same common purpose: to love one another.&nbsp; This homology lends credence to   one another.&nbsp;

  References

Atwater, P.M.H.   (1989). Coming back to life. New York: Ballantine Books.

  Dale, L. (2001). Crossing over   and coming home: Twenty-one authors discuss the gay near-death experience as a   spiritual transformation. Houston, TX: Emerald Ink.

Dale, L.   (2007). From fear to love, Journal of Near-Death Studies, 25(3), 171-179.

  England, E. (2007). Why the   church is as true as the gospel. Salt Lake City, Utah: Bookcraft.

  Fenwick, P. (2005). Science and   spirituality: a challenge for the 21st century [The Bruce Greyson   Lecture from the International Association for Near-Death Studies 2004 Annual   Conference]. Journal of Near-Death Studies, 23(3), 131-157.

  Filled with Love and Peace. (n.d.),  www.iands.org. &nbsp;Retrieved Feb. 11, 2010 from http://www.iands.org/nde_archives/experiencer_accounts/

  Frankl, V. (1985). The unheard cry   for meaning: psychotherapy and humanism, Washington Square Press. New   York. (Original work published in 1979)

  Frankl, V. (1992). Man's Search   for Meaning. Boston: Mass.: Beacon Books. (Original work published in 1946)

  Gallup, G., Jr., and Proctor, W.   (1982) Adventures in immortality: a look beyond the threshold of death.   New York: McGraw-Hill.

  Gibson, A. (1992). Glimpses  of eternity: new near-death experiences examined. Bountiful, Utah:   Horizon Publishers.

  Gibson, A. (2000). Religious wars or   healthy competition in the nde movement? Journal of Near-Death Studies, 18(4),   273-276.

  Greyson, B. (2000). Near-Death   Experiences. In E. Carde'a, S. J. Lynn, &amp; S. Krippner (Eds.), Varieties of   anomalous experiences. Washington, DC: American Psychological Association,   315-352.

  Greyson, B. (2003). Incidence and   correlates of near-death experiences on a cardiac care unit.&nbsp; General   Hospital Psychiatry, 25, 269-276.

Key Facts about   Near-Death Experiences, www.iands.org. 11 April 2009.

  Koerner, B. and Rich, J. (1997,   March 31). Is there life after death? U.S. News &amp; World Report.

  Letter to show your health-care   provider if you have had an nde, www.iands.org. Retrieved Jan. 11, 2010   from http://www.iands.org/support/.

  Lewis, C.S. (1901). On the logic   of drawing history from ancient documents, especially from testimonies, MS   c., published 1958 in Collected papers of Charles Sanders Peirce, v. 7,   paragraph 164-231, paragraph 219. Retrieved from:

  &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;   http://www.iupui.edu/~peirce/

  Long, J. (2010). Near-death   experience, religion, and spirituality. www.nderf.org. 22, Dec. 2009.

Love each other   and learn. www.iands.org. Newest Accounts. 11, Feb. 2010.

Moody, R.   (1979). Life after life. USA: Bantam.

Moody, R.   (1989). The light beyond. USA: Bantam.

  Morse, M., and Perry, P. (1990).   Closer to the Light: Learning from the near-death experiences of children.   New York, NY: Villard.

Nelson, L.   (1988). Beyond the veil volume I. Utah: Cedar Fort.

  Patakorpi, E. (2009). What could   abductive reasoning contribute to human computer interaction? A technology   domestication view. PsychNology Journal 7(1), 113-131.

  Peirce, C. S. (1903). Harvard   lecture VII: On pragmatism and abduction, Vol. 5, 189. Retrieved from: http://www.textlog.de/7620.html

  Pence, T. G. (1997). Charles S.   Peirce, scientific method, and God, PSCF 49, 156-161. Retrieved from:   http://www.leaderu.com/offices/koons/docs/Pence.html

  Ring, K. (1998). Lessons from the   light: what we can learn from the near-death experience. Needham, MA:   Monument Point Press, Inc.

  Ring, K. (2000) Religious wars in   the nde movement: some personal reflections on Michael Sabom's Light and Death.  Journal of Near-Death Studies, 18(4), 215-244.

Ritchie, G.   (1995). Return to tomorrow. Michigan: Baker Publishing Group.

  Sabom, M. (1998). Light and death.   Grand Rapids, Michigan: Zondervan Publishing House.

  Serdahely, W. J. (1992). Loving help   from the other side: a mosaic of some near-death, and near-death-like   experiences. Journal of Near-Death Studies, 10(3), 171-182.

The   King James Version of the Bible. Originally published   in 1611.

  Eds. Bailey, L.W. and Yates, J.   (Ed.). (1996). The near-death experience: a reader. New York, NY:   Routledge.

  van Lommel, P., van Wees, R.,   Meyers, V., &amp; Elfferich, I. (2001). Near-death experience in survivors of   cardiac arrest: A prospective study. Lancet, 358, 2039-2045.

  Vincent, K. R. (1994). Visions of   God from the near-death experience. Burdett, NY: Larson.

  Vincent, K. R. (2003). The   near-death experience and Christian universalism. Journal of Near-Death   Studies, 22(1), 57-71.

  Walker, B. A. and Serdahely, W. J.   (1990). Historical perspectives on near-death phenomenon. Journal of   Near-Death Studies, 9(2), 105-121.

Patakorpi, E.   (2009). What could abductive reasoning contribute to human computer interaction?   A technology domestication view. Psychnology Journal 7(1), 113-131.    	  	

  		  		  		  		[1]   The Journal of Near-Death Studies features two   		issues focusing on the Religious Wars in the NDE research arena, Vol. 18   		No. 4, Summer 2000 and Vol 19, No. 1, Fall 2000.&nbsp; The first is more   		direct in focus.  	

  		  		  		  		[2]   See Gregory Stone's full critique of Susan   		Blackmore's Dying to Live at www.nderf.org.      </body>  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/NDERF/Books/light_love_nde.htm