{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/NDERF\/Books\/Dying%20To%20Live%20Critique.htm","mytitle":"Dying To Live Critique","mylang":"de"}
          	Dying To Live Critique                  	            		  

Dying  to Live: Near-Death Experiences by Susan  Blackmore, Ph.D.: Critique      by Greg Stone    
  Home Page  Current NDEs  Share NDE</span>     	</tr>


  NDERF  is Pleased to Present A Remarkable Discussion of the book:
  &nbsp;Dying to Live:  Near-Death Experiences
  by: Susan Blackmore, Ph.D.
    Critique by: Greg Stone&nbsp; (Updated &amp; Republished 8/10/2004)  </font>  	  		  		  			' 2004   			Pink Unicorn Publishing. All Rights Reserved.  		          NDERF expresses our heartfelt thanks and appreciation to both   Greg Stone and    Dr. Blackmore.
  
  Index
  &nbsp;&nbsp;  
  &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Critique  of Dying to Live: Near- Death Experiences.&nbsp; By Greg Stone. 
  &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;   About  Greg Stone. 
  
  &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;   Response of Dr. Blackmore  to Critique of Dying to Live: Near-Death Experiences. 
  
  &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;   Response of Greg Stone to  Response of Dr. Blackmore to Critique. 
  &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Note:  Dr. Blackmore received a copy of the above well in advance to its posting.&nbsp;  Thus far I have not received any further response from her.&nbsp; If Dr.  Blackmore responds to the above at any future time, her comments will be posted  &amp; announcement of her response will be posted high on the NDERF home page.
  
  &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Dying to Live: Near-Death Experiences.&nbsp;  Book credits and reference information.
  &nbsp;&nbsp;
  &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Susan Blackmore's   views in further detail:  Near-Death  Experiences: In or out of the body?&nbsp;&nbsp;
  &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
  &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Susan Blackmore's personal experience:   Out-of-the-Body,  Explained Away, But It Was So Real.....
  
  &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; NDERF's  Dr. Jeff Commentary
  &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; And  the winner is... the substance of the NDE debate
  &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; And  the winner is... the form of the NDE debate

   Dying to Live   by Susan Blackmore:     Critique     by Gregory Stone 
       
   Prologue to Critique
  
  Discussions about the near death   experience and the idea that consciousness separates from the body are   frequently challenged by skeptics who ask: 'Didn't you know Susan Blackmore   proved, scientifically, that NDE's are hallucinations caused by brain activity?'
  
  When I first heard such claims, I rushed out and purchased Dying to Live,   Blackmore's work on the near death experience. After reading the book, however,   I was left wondering what it was skeptics had read. Dying to Live not only   failed to provide scientific support for a 'brain only' hypothesis, it contained   only conjecture and speculation.

  In a moment of passion, I fired off a   critique of Dying to Live, which was subsequently posted on a number of   sites. Over the following years, readers wrote to thank me for having posted the   critical analysis of the work.

  Ms. Blackmore responded as well and confirmed   my observation that the work was primarily that of conjecture and speculation.   So much for the skeptic's argument that the issue of NDEs has been settled once   and for all, scientifically.

  The following is an edited version of the   critique. (The content remains the same, the prose was in dire need of repair,   as the critique originated as an unedited e-mail exchange.)

  It is my hope that addressing the contents of  Dying to Live lessens the flurry of posts and e-mails that arrive saying,   'Didn't you know, Blackmore...' For those who have not read Dying to Live,   I highly recommend the book, even though I disagree with the conjectures   presented therein; the book nonetheless presents a worthwhile discussion of NDEs.   In order to understand the subject, one must become familiar with all the   different views that surround the subject.
  
Introduction
   
   In dialogue with skeptics, I often encounter   the claim that Susan Blackmore, in Dying to Live, provides scientific   proof the Near Death Experience results from a 'dying brain.' Skeptics argue her   work disproves the existence of spirit and the afterlife. A close reading of   Dying to Live, however, shows otherwise. The following is a critique of the   first eight chapters.
  
The Preface

Though skeptics claim Susan Blackmore is an   unbiased researcher, in the preface to her book, she makes her prejudices known   as she assumes the viewpoint of the biased skeptic. She writes: 
  
  &quot;It is no wonder that we like to deny death. Whole religions are based on that   denial. Turn to religion and you may be assured of eternal life. ....&quot; And, &quot;Of   course, this comforting thought conflicts with science. Science tells us that   death is the end and, as so often, finds itself opposing religion.&quot;
  
  This is a misrepresentation of both religion and science. Consider the comment,   &quot;whole religions are based upon a denial of death.&quot; Religion's primary concern   lies with the spirit and its relationship to the universe. Some prefer the term   'spiritual' to describe religious views, focusing on the core issue'the   existence of spirit. Almost all religions hold the belief man is, in essence, a   spirit or soul that lives beyond body death. This is not a denial of death, but   rather a focus on the life of the spirit. No one I know denies the existence of   death'the body dies. The life of the spirit is another matter. By assuming   spirit does not exist, Blackmore cynically reduces the subject of religion to a   denial of death. If the spirit exists, however, and transcends body death (one   of the two hypotheses considered in Dying to Live), then Blackmore, not   religion, is in denial.
  
  Thus, starting with page one, it's clear she does not intend to explore the   subject of NDEs (and survival of the spirit) with an unbiased scientific   approach. Her prejudice, not the research, will dictate the conclusions. 
  
  We see further evidence of bias in her statement that belief in life after death   conflicts with science, as though &quot;science&quot; were a monolithic authority that   decrees &quot;what is,&quot; rather than being a method of inquiry. 
  
  She offers the unsupported and blatantly false statement that &quot;science tells us'   death is the end. Though she may personally believe death is the end, &quot;science&quot;   makes no such pronouncement. Later in the book, researchers with scientific   credentials who take the opposite position'that spirit survives body death'are   mentioned, which puts the lie to her earlier statements that science tells us   death is the end. Though it may be appropriate to state the personal belief that   spirit does not survive body death, presuming to speak for &quot;science&quot; diminishes   the book's credibility from the outset.
  
  Dying to Live turns out to be, first and foremost, a personal opinion in support   of the skeptical viewpoint, not a statement of scientific evidence or proof.   Later in the preface, another illogical statement points up her agenda: &quot;The   problem with evolution is, and has always been, that it leaves little room   either for a grand purpose to life or for an individual soul.&quot; 
  
  Nothing could be further from the truth. Though the body is an evolving   bio-organism, the spirit is not; when it comes to questions of spirit or soul,   evolution is irrelevant. She uses a biological argument to dismiss a   non-biological premise, revealing her intention to dismiss evidence a priori and   substitute biases that arise from the field of evolutionary psychology'the   &quot;man-is-an-animal&quot; school of thought.
  
  Skeptics who claim the author of Dying to Live is non biased are proven wrong;   skeptics who claim she provides scientific proof are shown, by her own words, to   be in error.
  
  
   Chapter  One 
  
 Two competing   hypotheses are advanced in Dying to Live: The Afterlife Hypothesis and The Dying   Brain Hypothesis. The Afterlife Hypothesis states spirit survives body death.   The NDE is the result of spirit separating from the body. The Dying Brain   Hypothesis states the NDE is an artifact of brain chemistry. According to the   dying brain hypothesis, there is no spirit which survives body death.
  
  The book sets out to examine arguments for these two conflicting hypotheses'then   fails to do so. Blackmore never presents the actual Afterlife Hypothesis; she   presents a version intended to be refuted'a straw man argument. So much for   skeptics' claims of unbiased research.
  
  In the list of four arguments for the Afterlife Hypothesis, the most important   argument is omitted (later in the book it is addressed in passing). This primary   and most basic tenet of the Afterlife Hypothesis'that spirit (and consciousness)   separate from the body'deserves primary attention, but Blackmore instead   addresses tangential arguments. 
  
  Failing to formulate a clear and concise statement of what must be demonstrated   to support each hypothesis, she fails to test clear assumptions and ends up   concluding neither has proof, after which she expresses her feeling the Dying   Brain Hypothesis must be right. Skeptics make the mistake of claiming scientific   proof when Blackmore offers only opinion.
  
  In the first chapter, in quotes provided by NDErs, specific references are made   to being &quot;outside his/her body.&quot; NDEs, we learn, sometimes include the   observation of actual proceedings, such as operations, viewed from unusual   vantage points. This important point evidence, the very essence of the Afterlife   Hypothesis, is ignored at this early stage in the text.
  
  Particularly annoying to this reader is a brief passage regarding Tibetan   Buddhism: &quot;The difference between these teachings and the folk-tales we have   been considering--and it is a very big difference--is that in Buddhism these   experiences are not meant to be taken literally...&quot; She could not be more wrong.   Tibetan Buddhism endorses the Afterlife Hypothesis. Readers with only passing   familiarity with Tibetan Buddhism are aware they search for reincarnated leaders   and reinstate them to their position in the monastery. Buddhists take life   beyond death quite literally. Blackmore misappropriates Buddhist concepts and   fails to understand Buddhist practice disproves her Dying Brain Hypothesis!
  
  Convincing stories of the tradition of NDE's in Buddhist and Native American   circles are compared to modern day NDE's. 
  
  &quot;Zaleski sums up the similarities and differences she found between modern   and medieval accounts of&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; people who died and were   revived again. In both, the first step is a kind of dualistic parting of body   and soul, with the separated spirit looking down on its former dwelling   place...&quot;
  
  Dying to Live arrives at the essence of the Afterlife Hypothesis, the separation   of spirit and body, then ignores its significance. This dismissal of the key   issue casts doubt on the integrity of the work, integrity which is placed   further in doubt by the following: 
  
  &quot;Western philosophers and scientists have long argued cogently and powerfully   against this dualist view and the few who still defend it.... are in a tiny   minority amongst academics.&quot;
  
  The opinion of a select few academicians, who are not experts on the subject,   can hardly be called scientific evidence. In an earlier passage, she notes that   well over half the public, some seventy percent surveyed, believe in life after   death, then dismisses &quot;popularity&quot; as a scientific criterion. Now she turns   around and uses &quot;popularity&quot; among academics as grounds for her argument. 
  
  She offers personal opinion: &quot;The dualist temptation is so great. Just as we do   not like to imagine that we will one day die, so we do not like to think of   ourselves as just an ever-changing and perishable body...&quot; People also do not   like to think of themselves as an immaterial being; they do not like to think of   themselves as anything but a body. The argument cuts both ways. We are presented   with amateur psychology in lieu of scientific proof. Her opinion does not   determine whether spirit departs the body, it only serves to explain her   personal psychology.
  
  Later in the chapter, once again, she misses the crux of the issue: 
  
  &quot;Some have argued that there is a kind of core experience that is common to   all people and to all cultures but which is overlaid with cultural differences.   .... It is tempting to think that if we could somehow delve beneath the surface   of the accounts people give we would find the invariant, true NDE underneath.   But this is a vain hope.&quot;
  
  But there is an invariant core to the Afterlife Hypothesis: the separation of   spirit from body. This is obvious. It is the very hypothesis under   consideration. 
  
  What spirit perceives while it is separate is a different question. This should   be obvious, but apparently is not. Most of Dying to Live is spent disputing   differences in perceptual or experiential content, rather than inspecting the   core hypothesis. 
  
  To illustrate the point, consider the following thought experiment. Ask people   in various lands to take a Sunday afternoon stroll and report their experience.   There will be similarities, for example, the report of the mobility of the body   through the environment accompanied by the senses taking in the environment. We   would not be surprised, however, to find a walk through Manhattan produces very   different content from that produced by a stroll through the bush country of   Kenya. Likewise, when one investigates NDEs, one needs to distinguish core   factors or invariants (such as separation from body) from the varied content of   perception. When this critical difference is overlooked in Dying to Live, the   validity of the work is undermined.
  
   Chapter Two 
  
Drugs are entered into the equation and Blackmore reveals her personal   experiences with NDE-like phenomena under the effects of controlled substances.   She notes some differences in NDE's when they occur as a result of drug use,   then uses this to &quot;disprove&quot; the invariance hypothesis (the hypothesis that   these experiences should have commonality): &quot;My own interpretation is that   the invariance hypothesis is not supported. The NDE varies according to the   conditions that set it off and the person having it.&quot;
  
  As previously mentioned, she errors in looking at content differences, while   ignoring invariance in the basics. In our thought experiment, it was   demonstrated that reports which varied due to differences between scenery in   Kenya and Manhattan did not mean one subject did not take a walk. Likewise, if   the stroller in Manhattan ingests drugs and then turns in a report that varies   in content, this does not mean the subject did not stroll through the   environment as requested, only that his perceptions varied due to his drugged   condition.
  
  In misapplying the invariance hypothesis, Blackmore fails to take into account:   1) varying conditions of spirits when they separate (to varying degrees) from   the body and, 2) the varied perceptual and cognitive content that occurs,   depending upon the circumstances of separation. 
  
  It is folly to reduce a complex human and spiritual experience into machine-like   simplicity. When it comes to the study of humans, such reductionism results in   absurd conclusions. 
  
  This error underlies the theoretical turn she takes which colors the remainder   of the book: 
  
  &quot;Do you have to be near death to have an NDE? One motivation for asking this   question is the 'just like hallucinations' argument. According to this view,   NDE's, drug-induced hallucinations, out-of-body experiences occurring under   normal conditions and other kinds of hallucinations are all related.&quot;
  
  In other words, the NDE is not an isolated phenomena. The common link between   NDE and these other experiences is the release of the spirit, to a greater or   lesser extent, from the body. This is the relation that should be investigated.  
  
  The real question should not be, &quot;Do you have to be near death to have an NDE?&quot;   but rather do you have to be near death for the spirit to separate from the   body? Evidence tells us the answer is no. 
  
  The spirit can and does leave the body in any number of situations, including   those that occur without drugs or trauma. This is exactly what one would expect   to find if the Afterlife Hypothesis is true. If one postulates spirit surviving   body death, one also postulates spirit being different and separate from the   body it inhabits. The Afterlife Hypothesis predicts the spirit should be capable   of separating from the body under conditions other than impending death. The   evidence Blackmore cites thus directly supports the Afterlife Hypothesis.
  
  Instead of recognizing a common link that supports the Afterlife Hypothesis, she   opines:
  
  &quot;This might lend support to theories trying to explain the features of the   NDE in medical, psychological, or physiological terms and go against theories   involving a spirit or soul or heavenly realm.&quot; 
  
  Failing to see the obvious common element between the different situations, she   offers an unwarranted and unsupported assumption. How she arrives at her   conjecture is not clear, as she doesn't make the case for her argument. She   fails to support her reasoning. She assumes, incorrectly, that NDE phenomena   must be purely medical, psychological, or physiological with no spiritual   component. 
  
  Throughout the book, one finds this pattern repeated. Evidence that clearly   supports the Afterlife Hypothesis is presented, then, without explanation, the   opposite conclusion is advanced.
  
  The sentences that follow lend further support to the Afterlife Hypothesis: 
  
  &quot;There is lots of evidence for NDE-type experiences in people who are not   close to dying. The experience of leaving the body has a long history and   surveys show that something like 10-20 per cent of people have this experience   at some time during their life.&quot;
  
  'The experience of leaving the body has a long history' clearly supports the   Afterlife Hypothesis. She considers drugs to present 'medical phenomena,' but   does she not consider how drugs affect the spirit's connection to the body. How   do powerful hallucinogens and anesthetics affect a spirit's ability to remain   connected to the body? Do toxic effects of such drugs bring the body close to   death? As she presents these phenomena, she fails to take the Afterlife   Hypothesis into account. Her bias prevents her from asking common sense   questions.
  
  She goes on to discuss the effects of drugs, including her own experience: 
  
  &quot;Under conditions of extreme tiredness and smoking hashish I had an NDE-type   experience complete with the tunnel and light, out-of-body travels, expansion   and contraction of size, timelessness, a mystical experience and the decision to   return...&quot; 
  
  It becomes critical for our understanding to consider how drugs affect the   interface between spirit, mind, and body. How drugs affect the condition of the   spirit when it separates and when it returns? Drugs are a major source of   confusion within NDE research.
  
  Near the end of the chapter, research is cited that suggests the spirit   separates from the body in other than death situations, which supports the   Afterlife hypothesis. Blackmore writes: 
  
  &quot;The argument used by others reporting on this research goes like this: if   the brain is responsible for thinking, then when it is dying one would expect   thinking to become disordered or less clear. The evidence that it becomes   clearer therefore implies that the brain is not responsible; that the soul or   spirit is experiencing the clarity and may go on doing so after death.&quot; 
  
  Again, we find a consistency between the Afterlife Hypothesis and the evidence   reported. Blackmore, however, stands before the evidence and engages in denial:  
  
  &quot;This is one possible interpretation of the evidence, but it is not the only   one. It is not obvious that the dying brain must produce either more or less   clear perceptions and thoughts. An alternative is that as the brain dies, less   thoughts are possible and so the few that remain seem clearer and simpler by   comparison.&quot; 
  
  That a dying brain showing little or no activity should function in this   clear-thinking manner is absurd, and totally unsupported by research. The author   of Dying to Live reviews the literature, inadvertently presents a well-supported   case for the Afterlife Hypothesis, then advances unsubstantiated conjecture.   Bias and prejudice undermine scholarship.
  
  The chapter ends with an unwarranted conclusion, unsupported by anything that   has preceded: &quot;Our next step is now clear, if not easy; to try to understand   what happens in the dying brain.&quot; The evidence points to a spiritual being that   separates from the body. Understanding the details of how this happens is our   logical next step. 
  
  Blackmore instead claims the agenda is to understand the dying brain, an   assertion motivated by bias, not evidence. Prejudices erode and damage the   quality of Dying to Live.
  
  Chapter Three.

The chapter opens with Blackmore presenting a claim   that a person under the effects of nitrous oxide was able to view from outside   his body. Her non-sequitur conclusion reads: 
  
  &quot;I think this illustrates the reluctance we have to accept that our   experience, especially profound and personally meaningful experience, comes from   our brain's activity and nothing else.&quot; 
  
  In other words, when someone reports an out-of-body experience, he thereby   demonstrates a reluctance to admit it was his brain at work. With no discussion   of facts that would contradict the purported event, with no discussion of the   possible variables at work, without a shred of contrary data, she concludes the   person made up the account because saying he was out of his body &quot;made a better   story.&quot; Non-sequitur conclusions diminish her case. She states evidence for A,   concludes B. 
  
  Later in the chapter, she states: 
  
  &quot;Are these profound experiences a direct correlate of changes in the brain's   activity and nothing more, or are they experiences of a separate mind, soul,   astral body, or spirit? ....The general assumption of today's science says one   thing yet people...say another -- especially people who have had NDE's.   Scientists for the most part assume some form of materialism; that mental   phenomena depend upon, or are an aspect of, brain events.&quot; (emphasis added)
  
  Skeptics must be squirming. What could she be thinking? She argues based upon   what scientists assume. This is exactly the approach skeptics criticize. She   favors scientists' assumptions over firsthand accounts. If skeptics were honest   in their appraisal of Dying to Live, they would state 'Susan Blackmore   assumes...' and that would be the end of the debate. Instead, they misrepresent   the work as scientific proof. 
  
  &quot;As we have seen, the very occurrence of NDEs is not proof either way,&quot; she   writes. With a wave of her pen she dismisses evidence she previously presented,   evidence supporting the Afterlife Hypothesis, and asks us to accept non-sequitur   conjecture. We should be wary of such biased thinking. The fact is the NDE'with   its out-of-body component'goes a long way toward proving the spirit exists   separate from the body.
  
  Later, she writes, &quot;If the Afterlife Hypothesis can answer them best then I   shall accept that and work with that as well as I can. If the dying brain   hypothesis does better than I shall work with that.&quot; As we have already seen,   however, she has no intention of considering the Afterlife Hypothesis. Even in   Dying to Live, the Afterlife Hypothesis is a best fit with the evidence,   however, when evidence points to the Afterlife Hypothesis, it is blatantly   ignored.
  
  Next, the reader is asked to consider the ever popular &quot;cerebral anoxia&quot;   argument: the loss-of-oxygen-to-the-brain scenario. She presents four reasons   researchers argue anoxia cannot be responsible for the NDE. It is only necessary   for us to consider the first: &quot;1. NDEs can occur in people who obviously do not   have anoxia.&quot; Her response reads: 
  
  &quot;This is certainly true but is not a sound argument at all. As we have seen,   there is clearly no one cause of the NDE. .... The fact that NDEs can occur   without anoxia is no argument against it sometimes being responsible for them.&quot;  
  
  As she agrees anoxia does not provide 'the' explanation for the NDE, that it is   one among many possible factors, the obvious question to ask is, What do ALL the   factors have in common?
  
  One finds: 1) Trauma to the body can interrupt the connection between the spirit   and the body' drugs, lack of oxygen, injury, even the anticipation of great   bodily harm or death. These are all factors which serve to disconnect or   separate the functioning of spirit and body. That which requires research and   explanation is how spirit interfaces with the body and what causes an   interruption or severance of this connection.
  
  And one finds: 2) Experiences not involving drugs or trauma but rather a   decision on the part of the spirit to separate from the body, either as a   demonstration of natural ability, or as a result of acquired skill. For example,   Tibetan Buddhism or other training.
  
  Thus, we have &quot;accidental&quot; separation and &quot;intentional&quot; separation. The key   factor is separation.
  
  Blackmore recounts the story of a volunteer in high G force experiments, who,   while outside his body, &quot;went home and saw his mother and brother.&quot; Again and   again, we have examples that cry out for explanation in terms of the Afterlife   Hypothesis, but Blackmore fails to even consider the Afterlife Hypothesis. She   states evidence, then dodges with: &quot;The invariance hypothesis is not   sustainable. The NDE is not always the same and we need to try to understand its   different elements in different ways.&quot; 
  
  She fails to consider the basis of the Afterlife Hypothesis, that the spirit   separates from body. She instead uses variety of content as an excuse to ignore   the profound, consistent core of the NDE and related experiences'separation of   spirit from body.
  
  She fails to ask, what is the nature of spirit? What are the spirit's perceptual   and cognitive abilities when separate? Without an inquiry into such matters, it   is not possible to consider the Afterlife Hypothesis. Her bias toward   philosophical materialism prevents consideration of the alternative hypothesis.
  
  Without considering the Afterlife Hypothesis, she asks how anoxia affects the   brain, even though anoxia itself is not the common element. She argues anoxia is   not a common invariant factor of the NDE, then proceeds in her attempt to   explain the NDE on the basis of anoxia. The real question is what condition does   anoxia cause that is the same as conditions caused by other precipitating   factors? In other words, what do they have in common?
  
  Without asking these questions, we end up with a one-sided and incomplete   analysis based entirely upon bias toward a brain explanation. The Afterlife   Hypothesis is merely trotted out as a straw figure to be knocked down.
  
  Chapter Four

In this chapter, the author discusses drug-induced   hallucinations, but fails to explore the question of what exactly is a   hallucination, what does one view in a hallucination? The assumption is made   that the nature of hallucination is known, when this is not the case. The study   of consciousness, still in a primitive state, does not answer this question. She   works on the premise that a hallucination is a visual or auditory perception   that does not coincide with &quot;objective&quot; reality, but fails to establish what it   is one views in a hallucination. It's obvious that something, some from of   mental imagery, is perceived. What is it?
  
  As a result of bias, she does not ask how spirit, detached from a body, as in   the Afterlife Hypothesis, might perceive mental pictures or imagery. How do such   perception correlate with &quot;objective&quot; reality? In other words, she fails to   consider a model of mind that would accompany the Afterlife Hypothesis and   confines her speculation to brain theory. An unbiased researcher must   investigate the phenomena within the paradigms of each hypothesis.
  
  Writing about the NDEer passing through a tunnel of mental energy, she states:   &quot;There are many serious problems with such a theory. If the other worlds are a   part of this world then they cannot really account for the afterlife.&quot; 
  
  This conclusion proves false when we consider the NDE reports. They see not only   ethereal energy patterns, they view the 'objective' world'the world of operating   rooms and other more mundane settings. Reports tell us &quot;this&quot; world is   intermingled with the world of mental energy. This same phenomenon is common in   everyday experience'people are perfectly capable of managing the world of   imagination, the world of mental images, while going about their business in the   &quot;real&quot; world. Mixing subjective and objective reality is a common experience.   Why this should not be so after death is not made clear by Blackmore. In fact,   the question is not even considered. 
  
  She continues: &quot;Something should be seen leaving the body and going into the   tunnel. The tunnel itself would be present in physical space and we should be   able to measure it or in some way detect its presence.&quot; That's why those skilled   at observing the subtle energy that surrounds the spirit are able to perceive   such events. Reports from NDErs claim an ability to perceive other disembodied   spirits while out of body. Mediums skilled at communicating with disembodied   spirits perceive this energy as well. Research shows death bed patients often   perceive disembodied spirits. Will we ever possess detectors sensitive enough to   measure the mental energy patterns that make up our subjective world? Of course.   The history of science is filled with examples of technological breakthroughs   that have allowed researchers to detect that which was formerly invisible.   There's good reason to suspect this scenario be repeated in this field.   Blackmore comments: 
  
  &quot;Still we should not reject such theories out of hand just because they seem   senseless. It is better to apply some criteria to them and see how they fare. Is   this theory specific? No, not at all. The tunnels described are all different in   precise form and this theory can say nothing about what forms they should or   should not take.&quot;
  
  She again focuses on content, not underlying phenomena. The structure of   specific tunnels is not in question; as has been stated, they are mental   constructs, mental energy patterns. As such they take many malleable forms. Such   mental energy is not confined to a brain, but rather is patterned energy that   makes up the mind, which is not the brain. If one considers the Afterlife   Hypothesis and the NDE reports, one must consider mind to be patterned energy   that can be viewed by spirit. This patterned energy exists separate from, but   superimposed upon, the body.
  
  When the spirit separates from the body, as in the Afterlife Hypothesis, it   remains &quot;cloaked&quot; in its mind. Individual spirits exist within energy masses   when they leave the body. The content of this mind will vary from individual to   individual, which explains why we have varying content, but invariant mechanics.
  
  The collection of energy patterns we shall call the mind can best be imagined by   comparing it to the quantum pilot wave concept, in which a less substantial,   information-bearing, quantum wave pattern is entangled with a denser,   macroscopic structure. (An analogy would be a radio signal directing the motions   of a large super tanker.) The patterned energy of the mind entangles with the   body and the brain. The degree to which the spirit disentangles mind from body   monitors the degree to which spirit can be out of body.
  
  The invariant element that precipitates the NDE or OBE is the disentanglement of   the mind and spirit from the body. The disentanglement of subtle energy from   coarse energy. In the Afterlife Hypothesis, one would find the spirit moving out   of body, surrounded by its mind, which also detaches (to a greater or lesser   degree) from the body/brain.
  
  The spirit's attention, when out of body, shifts from the concerns of the body   to the subtle energy of the mind. It views old energy patterns and/or creates   new ones, either by itself or in concert with other disembodied spirits. One has   variance of content, invariance of the mechanics. In our mundane, every day   lives, we are familiar with the mental realm that cloaks the spirit. This is the   subjective world, the world of the mind, the world of consciousness. The degree   to which the spirit, outside the body, focuses on dense physical as opposed to   less dense mental energy patterns, varies. This accounts for the varied nature   of NDE accounts which include both perceptions of physical setting and patterned   mental energy.
  
  If one intends to compare the Afterlife Hypothesis to the Dying Brain   Hypothesis, one must take this model of the mind into account. One must   understand the spirit in its disembodied condition. Without such understanding,   one never compares the two hypotheses, which leads to a failure to determine   which model best explains the phenomena.
  
  Blackmore, unable to conceptualize the assumptions of the Afterlife Hypothesis,   gives it no consideration at all. Contrary to skeptics' claims, she fails to   weigh the evidence in light of the two opposing hypotheses. 
  
  When we obtain mountains of reports from experiencers attesting to out of body   states it is incumbent upon us to explore the reports as they are given. Before   one decides they're purely imaginary and lack substance, one must attempt to   understand the ways in which the reports might be accurate'as presented. One   must at least attempt to come to grips with the details and not summarily   dismiss the phenomena as brain-induced hallucination.
  
  If one is to consider the Afterlife Hypothesis as more than a straw man argument   to be discarded, one must look at how the detached spirit interfaces with the   body. One must take the basic premise of the Afterlife Hypothesis, the   separation of spirit from body, and ask, how might this work? 
  
  When one goes the extra step and considers the model in detail, a more coherent   theory emerges which explains the phenomena without the necessity of dismissing   NDE reports. The model fits the data.
  
  The facts do not fit Blackmore's Dying Brain Hypothesis, thus she must assume   the NDErs are mistaken. She must discard evidence and substitute conjecture. She   must avoid the actual research.
  
  Perhaps she fails to explore the Afterlife Hypothesis due to a lack of knowledge   and insight or perhaps bias prevents her from considering both hypotheses   equally. In either case, the primary failing is the lack of a valid inquiry into   the Afterlife Hypothesis. Failing to correctly state the premises of the   Afterlife Hypothesis, let alone compare research data with the assumptions,   undermines the work.
  
   Chapter  Five
   
In this   chapter, the author's actual agenda becomes clear. It is not an agenda that   includes researching and comparing the two stated hypotheses. She takes off the   mask, and admits: &quot;I have been developing a theory of the NDE that tries to   explain it completely in terms of processes in the dying brain.&quot; 
  
  The attempt to reduce the near death experience to brain physiology rests upon a   semantic dodge:
  
  &quot;The first is a direct challenge to any physiological or naturalistic theory   of the NDE. It is simply this: that some NDEers claim they could accurately see   events from outside their bodies. In other words, they claim paranormal powers.   And paranormal powers, by definition, cannot be explained in terms of 'normal'   theories.&quot;
  
  Her dismissal of evidence that stands in opposition to her theory makes no   sense, for a number of reasons:
  1) She dismisses the very claims she purports to study.
  2) She dismisses the Afterlife Hypothesis as &quot;paranormal.&quot; Though our task was   to evaluate how evidence fit the Afterlife Hypothesis, she now dismisses the   hypothesis entirely by simply labeling it &quot;paranormal.&quot; 
  
  The proper approach would be to pursue the research as originally proposed and   compare the hypotheses in light of the data. One finds claims of out-of-body   perception directly support the Afterlife Hypothesis, which states the spirit   survives body death in a conscious state. Claims of out-of-body perception   directly support this hypothesis as they demonstrate the existence of a spirit   which can detach from the body. The actual reports from those who experience the   phenomena support the Afterlife Hypothesis and contradict the Dying Brain   Hypothesis. This is the type of analysis one conducts if one is doing science.  
  
  Scientific procedure dictates that if you find data that support one hypothesis   over another, even if you are not sure exactly how the underlying phenomena   work, you are duty bound to further investigate the hypothesis the data   supports.&nbsp; Following the argument a step further: 
  
  &quot;The second objection often comes from people who have had NDEs or other   kinds of mystical experiences. You are wrong, they say, this feeling of bliss is   nothing like a chemically induced high. It is a spiritual joy; an experience of   the soul; a transcendence of ordinary pleasure and pain. Drug induced joy is a   sham; not the real thing at all.&quot;
  
  This objection, voiced by those who have had the experience, those closest to   the subject of our research, conforms to the Afterlife Hypothesis. They claim   the experience is not body/brain/drug based, but rather an experience of   separation from ordinary body sensations.
  
  If one takes the Afterlife Hypothesis seriously, one would predict a change in   feeling/perception when the spirit disentangles or disengages from the coarser   energy of the body. A picture of what might be expected can be extrapolated from   the Afterlife Hypothesis. Such a projection closely matches the NDE reports.
  
  Susan Blackmore dismisses the data and instead inserts her &quot;contention.&quot;
  
  &quot;... It is my contention that this &quot;real thing&quot; -- NDEs, mystical experiences   and indeed everything encountered on the spiritual path -- are products of a   brain and the universe of which it is a part. For there is nothing else.&quot;
  
  Those interested in knowledge gained via pursuit of the scientific method are   left adrift. Not only does Blackmore blatantly toss out primary research data   and substitute her own prejudices, she makes the outrageous statement, &quot;For   there is nothing else.&quot; This begs the question, how does she know &quot;there is   nothing else?&quot; 
  
  Chapter Six

This chapter begins with perhaps the most accurate   statements found in the text: 
  
  &quot;Some very strong claims are made. The implication is always the same; that   people during NDEs have actually seen the events occurring from a location   outside their bodies. 'They' have left their bodies and that is why they can   accurately see what is going on. If these claims are valid then the theory I am   developing is wrong....&quot;
  
  Strong claims have been made. The data exits. The experience exists. Those   reporting concur: they view from outside their bodies. This should not be a   surprise given the Afterlife Hypothesis predicts exactly this result. When   making a decision on which hypothesis is supported by the research, without   doubt, the Afterlife Hypothesis wins out.
  
  Blackmore is correct: the Dying Brain Hypothesis is wrong. But here is how she   responds to reports that clearly contradict her hypothesis: 
  
  &quot;I want to be quite clear. It is my contention that there is no soul, spirit,   astral body or anything at all that leaves the body during NDEs and survives   after death. These, like the very idea of a persisting self, are all   illusions....&quot; (emphasis added)
  
  In the face of data that clearly contradicts her theory, Blackmore simply   contends the Afterlife Hypothesis is false.
  
  How does she explain reports of out-of-body perceptions that contradict her   theory? &quot;The answers include prior knowledge, fantasy and lucky guesses and the   remaining senses of hearing and touch.&quot; 
  
  Aware of the tenuous nature of her argument, she must reassure us: &quot;This may   sound destructive and doubting--an exercise in debunking. But my intention is   not to debunk so much as to assess the alternatives.&quot; 
  
  If one follows the arguments in the book, however, it's clear the sole purpose   is to debunk. There is no intention of assessing alternatives. When research   clearly supports the Afterlife Hypothesis, the data is ignored or dismissed as   &quot;lucky guesses and fantasy.&quot; She contends there is no spirit, thus no reason to   consider the Afterlife Hypothesis. Research data is replaced with personal bias   and opinion.
  
  Assessing the merit of her dismissal of NDE reports, we find claims the NDErs   are not really seeing from a vantage point outside the body, claims that NDErs   construct a visual image as a result of hearing and touch. This conjecture does   not correlate with the reports of those who have the experience. They recall the   actual event of viewing from specific locations. In other words, it is not   merely the content they view, but also the actual experience of viewing. One can   perform a simple demonstration to illustrate the difference. Sit down, close   your eyes, and visualize the room'based upon what you hear and feel. Now open   your eyes and view the room. You can distinguish the two events. In the latter,   you experience the actual process of viewing.
  
  The conjecture that prior knowledge accounts for reports in which subjects view   events, settings, or personnel does not hold up, for often it is the first time   the setting and events are viewed. In such cases, no prior experience exists   upon which to draw. Prior knowledge fails to account for awareness of viewing in   the moment. Blackmore's claim is comparable to saying a person only imagined he   woke up this morning because he had prior knowledge of what it was like to wake   up. There is a discernible experiential difference between reconstructing   memories and actually viewing in the present. Sit down, close your eyes, and   recall a memory of being in the room. Open your eyes and perceive the room.   Notice the difference between the recall of the memory and experiencing 'in the   moment.' Blackmore ignores reports that claim the experience was not one of   reconstructing memories, but rather one of being aware in the present.
  
  The &quot;fantasy&quot; explanation does not merit a response when it comes to reports   wherein the scene viewed matched actual physical events. She risks falling into   the dubious trap of becoming the &quot;authority&quot; on someone else's experience when   she puts forth such conjecture. Assigning the label of fantasy arbitrarily   removes the research from the realm of science and places it squarely in the   realm of personal opinion. As long as she is the authority who determines what   is real and what is fantasy, we arrive not at scientific conclusions but rather   at her personal view of the world.
  
  Blackmore's final attempt to dismiss the evidence by attributing it to &quot;lucky   guesses&quot; is an insult to readers. This covers all the bases'yes, you perceived   correctly, but it was a &quot;lucky guess.&quot; This is an arbitrary method of   eliminating research that contradicts one's pet theory.
  
  It's apparent Blackmore does not respect the reports of people who have actually   had a NDE. She does not need their reports. (After all, their reports are   fantasy or lucky guesses.) When actual research disproves her theory, she tosses   the research aside and substitutes conjecture. If this analysis seems overly   harsh, consider her closing remarks in this chapter: 
  
  &quot;Why are so many books full of accounts of people seeing at a distance while   out of their bodies? I think there is a simple answer to this. When things seem   real we expect them to correspond to an external shared reality. The NDE, like   many other altered states of consciousness, is an exception to this rule. In the   NDE things seem real when in fact they are constructed by the imagination. No   wonder people are led astray.&quot; 
  
  She offers no proof that NDE perceptions are imagination, she only offers   conjecture, prejudice, and bias. She dismisses the simplest conclusion'that   people making the reports are truthful and accurate. This allows her to   circumvent the obvious: the reports support the Afterlife Hypothesis and   contradict the Dying Brain Hypothesis. 
  
  She states: 
  
  &quot;Finally, many people have a strong desire to believe in a life after death   and, even more so, in a self that persists through life. Evidence that what they   saw was correct may seem to back up the idea that they, themselves, do have a   separate existence and might survive.&quot; 
  
  That's right. The evidence supports the Afterlife Hypothesis. And yet she   dismisses the evidence, implying that simply because people have such a desire   they must be exaggerating, falsifying, and fantasizing. This is the same as   saying because alcoholics crave liquor there really isn't any liquor'they're   making it up. Desire leads to fantasy. Any objects of our desire therefore must   be fantasy. 
  
  If, as the data suggests, spirit exists separate from the body and survives body   death, it is Blackmore's desire to deny the existence of spirit that leads to   exaggeration, falsification, and fantasy. The Dying Brain theory is the result   of her passionate desire to debunk the Afterlife Hypothesis.
  
  Chapter Seven

In this chapter, Blackmore agrees the NDE is a real   experience, but disputes the reality of the content: 
  
  &quot;I don't think any of them makes any sense or can do the job of explaining   the NDE. This is a wide and sweeping dismissal but I believe it is justified,   not least because all these theories start from confused assumptions about the   difference between reality and imagination.&quot; 
  
  The confusion rests in a failure to understand the difference between reality   and imagination. A failure to understand objective and subjective. But the   confusion is Blackmore's. She fails to understand the &quot;reality&quot; of the   subjective'energy patterns that make up the mind (not the brain), which   encompass the spirit and account for much of the content of the NDE. She fails   to understand that in the typical NDE one views both the mental energy patterns   and the &quot;objective&quot; world.
  
  The reader can perform a simple demonstration to illustrate the fact. Look at   the room: objective reality. Now imagine a lion covered with pink dots stretched   out on the floor. Superimpose the subjective, imaginary lion over the objective   room. People manage to shift focus back and forth and superimpose thoughts over   the objective world all the time. When the spirit departs the body, this   combination of subjective and objective comes into play.
  
  She comments on the nature of the world the NDEer encounters when they depart   from the body: &quot;The act of dying, according to Ring's new theory, involves a   gradual shift of consciousness from the ordinary world of appearances to a   holographic reality of pure frequencies.&quot; Ring refers to the energy patterns   or pictures I reference above. He notes the increased focus on subtle energy   patterns when the spirit is outside the body.
  
  Blackmore adds: &quot;The second error is to suggest that consciousness can function   in this other reality without the brain.&quot; There's no &quot;error,' the Afterlife   Hypothesis states the spirit exists independent of the body. The Afterlife   Hypothesis does not tie consciousness into the brain. Ring's statement is   consistent with both the Afterlife Hypothesis and the evidence. 
  
  Blackmore fails to consider the Afterlife Hypothesis on its own terms. Instead,   she applies the assumptions of the Dying Brain Hypothesis. She fails to consider   the Afterlife Hypothesis and its assumption that spirit consciously separates   from the body/brain. Ring's argument and the body of evidence support just such   an assumption. Blackmore falls back on prejudice: 'the brain did it.'
  
  She recognizes the aborted nature of her inquiry: &quot;My dismissal of the   holographic theories might still seem cavalier, especially since they seem to   provide an insight into mystical experience generally.&quot; Her dismissal not only   seems cavalier, it is. She fails to consider the evidence and hypotheses under   consideration.
  
  She takes up concepts presented in Talbot's Holographic Universe, including   David Bohm's implicate order and Pribram's speculation on the holographic mind   model. (Both Bohm and Pribram work on the assumption the brain is the source of   consciousness, so neither should be considered spokespersons for the Afterlife   Hypothesis.) Bohm describes a classical universe resting on top of a more basic   quantum reality. He describes this underlying reality as &quot;idea like&quot; but fails   to consider that mind and spirit exist separate from the body. Thus, he fails to   take the step that would make his theory relevant to the question at hand. His   theories become useful only when they are applied to the concept of mind   separate from the brain. When one considers mind to be energy patterns which   encompass the spirit, the application of quantum theory and implicate order   begins to make sense. 
  
  (Roger Penrose, another physicist presenting theoretical work on consciousness,   also fails because he does not consider consciousness separate from the brain.   See Penrose's Shadows of the Mind.)
  
  In the section, &quot;Paranormal Phenomena (Not) Explained,&quot; Blackmore claims: 
  
  &quot;Theories of alternate realities and the like appear to explain the   paranormal by positing an underlying interconnected reality from which   everything else arises. But it is appearance only. They cannot adequately   explain telepathy, clairvoyance, seeing at a distance during an OBE or   psychokinesis...&quot;
  
  The phenomena above can all be explained when one understands: the mind; the   dynamics between mind and spirit; communication between spirits; and the   impingement of mind upon the body. A detailed explanation emerges when all these   factors are taken into account.
  
  Blackmore disputes the existence of explanations by critiquing only Bohm's work.   Bohm, however, did not attempt to answer such questions with his theory and   never applied his implicate/explicate model to the concept of a spirit.   Blackmore appears to respond to Talbot's accounts and conjectures, which are   admittedly sketchy and incomplete. In order to compare the Afterlife Hypothesis   and the Dying Brain Hypothesis, one must start with the research. All phenomena   reported can be explained quite easily by a comprehensive model of spirit out of   body. I'm no doubt too critical of Blackmore in this regard as she does not have   the tools to construct such a model. There would be nothing wrong, in my   opinion, with her simply admitting she does not understand the Afterlife   Hypothesis and holds a bias in favor of the Dying Brain Hypothesis. 
  
  She comments: 
  
  &quot;If we think of the eye as a camera then we are inclined to think that it   sends a picture up into the brain. What in the brain looks at this picture?   Well, another sort of 'inner eye,' I suppose. And how does this inner eye see?   .... This is known as the homonuculus problem because it implies a little   person, or homonculus, sitting in the brain looking at the pictures.&quot;
  
  This description calls for exactly what we find in NDE and OBE phenomena, a   spirit that exists independent of the body which answers the question of who is   looking. (Of course, one needs to arrive at an accurate description of the   observer, rather than using the metaphor of a little person sitting in the   brain.) It is just this spirit that the Afterlife Hypothesis posits and which   the NDE evidence supports. All that's missing is research into the exact nature   of this spirit. The only reason this does not happen is the idea is dismissed   off hand.
  
  In place of genuine research, Blackmore suggests cognitive science has the   answer: the brain as computer, the person as robot. She doesn't support this   contention, and anyone even tangentially familiar with the subject realizes such   models have failed dramatically to account for real life. She goes on: &quot;There   is no need for that homonculus. ..... Right from the start of the process of   perception, the sensory information is transformed, processed, and stored as   connection strengths between neurons....&quot; This explanation does not hold up.   The old &quot;stored in the neurons&quot; theory has been found wanting. Anyone interested   in the problems encountered with such models should read Roger Penrose's Shadows   of the Mind, which addresses the failure of computational models to account for   the nature of consciousness. Blackmore's simplistic, reductionist model fails to   account for natural everyday consciousness, let alone the NDE reports of   perception from outside the body.
  
  She then presents the &quot;mental models&quot; concept from cognitive science. The idea   is, basically, that thought and perceptions are little programs, subroutines   stored in the brain. She proclaims: &quot; 'I' am no more and no less then a mental   model.&quot; and &quot;My brain builds 'me'.&quot; She takes the analogy further:
  
  &quot;My answer is that consciousness is just the subjective aspect of all this   modeling. It is how it feels to be a mental model. Of course, 'I' am only one of   the models. 'I' am not a special being inside the head directing attention to   one thing or another. Rather 'I' am just one of many models built by this   system...&quot; 
  
  She goes on to say 'me' is basically an illusion. 
  
  The computing model she presents, however, does not account for many aspects of   consciousness'non-computational thought, free will, qualia, etc.'and most   importantly it does not fit the NDE or OBE phenomena, which contradict and   disprove her model. (That may be the real reason she needs to &quot;debug&quot; the   phenomena'when one factors in the NDE and OBE, her computational theories are no   longer appropriate.)
  
  Her &quot;mental model&quot; theory becomes tenuous, mysterious: 
  
  &quot;And is there a real world out there? Well, if we adopt this view we can   never know. We assume there is in the way we talk about brains and what they do.   But it is only an assumption'a useful working model. It is just another of those   ubiquitous mental models. Indeed everything we experience, including ourselves,   is a mental model.&quot; (Emphasis added.)
  
  She continues: &quot;If there is no underlying reality then the NDE, like every other   experience, is a matter of the mental models being constructed by the brain at   the time.&quot; Her mental models which deny any possibility of knowing &quot;reality,&quot;   ends up being the ultimate subjectivism, with no bridge to the objective world   possible.
  
  Skeptics may be surprised to discover she holds this viewpoint which directly   contradicts their debate platform. A primary tenet of their arguments, that the   world &quot;out there&quot; is real and everything &quot;in here&quot; is unreal, falls apart if   they support her theory. Their argument, that believers in the paranormal are   solipsistic, must be discarded if they embrace Blackmore, for her model   concludes we can never know if there is a real world out there.
  
  This &quot;we can never know&quot; theory simply fails to cross the threshold into an   understanding of the subjective and the objective, and the relationship between   them. A full discussion of such details lies outside the scope of this critique.   A brief summary of Idealism, however, includes the concept that our subjective   experience is real and from this primary realm flows the objective world. In   other words, the objective flows from the subjective. Condensed thought   (subjective) becomes the world of matter (objective). Thus, there's not only a   perceptual link between the subjective and the objective, but a causal link as   well. Ultimately one must gain an understanding of Idealism and the link between   subjective and objective if one is to truly understand the Afterlife Hypothesis.
  
  For now, I will merely suggest we can know both the subjective and the   objective. We're not stranded forever inside our craniums in the bleak, robotic   world Blackmore proposes. In the Afterlife Hypothesis, consciousness is not an   emergent property of a brain. Thus, that which consciousness &quot;models&quot; and   perceives and creates is not a product of the brain.
  
  In Blackmore's model, we can never know whether what we perceive out there is   real as we are only models in the brain, limited by our emergence from the   brain. In the Afterlife Hypothesis, we can know what is real as our perceptions   and knowledge are not limited by the brain / body. We can know &quot;out there.&quot;
  
  If one analyzes Blackmore's theory, one finds it is, at its core, idealistic. If   one removes the brain as the source of her mental models and replaces it with   the spirit, one arrives at Idealism consistent with the Afterlife Hypothesis.   She considers the physical brain creates mental models and consciousness as   emergent properties, whereas the Afterlife Hypothesis assumes the spirit creates   the mental models, in which case the physical emerges from consciousness, not   the other way around.
  
  Dying to Live turns mystical thought inside out: &quot;Once you see that all 'you'   are is a collection of mental models, you see the illusion.&quot; (Emphasis added.)   The attentive reader will ask'who is the &quot;you&quot; that sees the &quot;you&quot; mental model?   In traditional mysticism, it is the immaterial you, the spirit, that sees its   &quot;identities&quot; as mental models. (Idealism.) Blackmore alters this traditional   mystical view. Her statement should read: Once the mental model sees 'you' as a   mental model, the mental model sees the illusion. Mental models trapped forever   in feedback loops with no real 'you' there. She turns mysticism upside down and   postulates the physical as the only reality, a reality we can never know. This   is not what we find, however, when we investigate real living persons. This is   not what we find with NDEs and OBEs. We find the traditional mystical model'   with an immaterial being, a spirit that is 'you''to be accurate.
  
  Her misuse of &quot;illusion&quot; tips the reader off to her misunderstanding of the   Buddhist concept which considers the physical to be thought, thus an illusion.   The is the ultimate version of Idealism. In such a system, the brain is itself   an illusion in the sense that all physical is illusion. Her model ignores the   Buddhist concepts of reincarnation and afterlife, in which the &quot;you&quot; is   obviously not a mental model, but rather the &quot;you&quot; of the Afterlife Hypothesis.
  
  She borrows the language, but not the meaning, of Buddhist concepts, when she   equates illusion with her cognitive science mental models. She borrows   &quot;illusion&quot; from Buddhism, but fails to explain Buddhist concepts of life after   death and the survival of the spirit. Those beliefs support the Afterlife   Hypothesis and contradict the Dying Brain Hypothesis.
  
  Perhaps the western practice of mixing drugs and mysticism causes some of the   confusion. She mentions an encounter with Baba Ram Dass: &quot;Once a successful   psychologist, Richard Alpert, he had many experiences with drugs and studied   with gurus in the East before becoming a teacher himself. When I met him I was   confused.&quot; 
  
  She was confused. So was he: he commented to her that things just got more   confusing, but such may be nothing more than a common side effect of LSD. Drugs   bring confusion not enlightenment. Blackmore states her experience with NDE/OBE   phenomena occurred as a result of drug use, so we may guess that in order to   understand the NDE and related phenomena, it may be necessary to clear up the   confusion introduced by drugs.
   
   Chapter  Eight 
  
The most important question is taken up in this chapter titled &quot;In or Out of   the Body?&quot;
  
  The experience of being outside the body is the single most important aspect of   the NDE; and defines OBE. Why is it so important? The experience of being out of   the body directly confirms the Afterlife Hypothesis which states the spirit   transcends death. If the spirit is different from the body, one would expect the   spirit to be able to separate even in non-death situations, and that is exactly   what the out of body experience confirms.
  
  The chapter begins with a report of someone claiming to have been outside,   looking down on the body. The person making the report continues to be   conscious, to think, and to perceive physical events. And reports slamming back   into the body. The report includes the person confirming details of what he had   seen while out of body.
  
  Then Blackmore provides additional examples, which we know are a few among many,   many reports with the common elements of viewing the body from outside, seeing   events transpire, and being jolted back into the body.&nbsp; Blackmore notes: &quot;The   people who have OBEs are just as likely to be male or female, educated or   uneducated, religious or not religious.&quot; (Which disproves her earlier   contention that the experience arises out of people's religious denial of   death.)
  
  She notes drugs are often associated with OBEs and states: &quot;I have had OBEs   myself with this drug (ketamine), though not as vivid as naturally occurring   ones.&quot; As noted before, her experience with the subject matter is drug-related.
  
  She goes on: &quot;OBEs occurring in daily life tend to happen when the person is   resting, about to fall asleep, or meditating, but they can also happen in the   midst of ordinary activity.&quot; (This will be seen to be important when it   comes to her conjecture that all such experiences are the result of trauma-based   imagination.) 
  
  She quotes researcher Kenneth Ring regarding the separation: 
  
  &quot;.... I believe that what happens when an individual is near the point of   apparent death is a real, and not just a subjective, separation of something...   from the physical body. It is this 'something' that then perceives the immediate   physical environment and then goes on to experience events...&quot;
  
  Ring's analysis supports the Afterlife Hypothesis. The something, the spirit,   leaves the body. His analysis conforms to the reports. His analysis matches the   research data. The difference between Kenneth Ring (and others who study the   phenomena intensively) and Blackmore is the degree to which their conclusions   conform to the research data.
  
  Blackmore, in my opinion, ignores the research and takes a tortuous route into   pure speculation of a most tenuous nature. She speculates the only 'I' is a   mental model, and the reason we apparently get out of the body is tied in with   why we think we are in it, namely: 
  
  &quot;Part of the answer is that building a model from eye-level view is the most   efficient way of making use of the information coming in from our predominant   sense.&quot; And, &quot;It can only be a guess, but I imagine that dogs are more inclined   to feel they are inside their noses than we are.&quot;
  
  Time to stop for a chuckle, then on with her suggestion that these models (who   we really are) dissolve under various conditions such as drugs. Blackmore   writes: 
  
  &quot;I shall never forget my own ketamine experience, the extraordinary sensation   of watching the floating parts of the body that seemed to have nothing to do   with 'me' coming in and out of vision as 'I' seemed to drift about away from   them.&quot; 
  
  She says &quot;I shall never forget&quot; but, according to her hypothesis, the &quot;I&quot; should   have been dissolved. Incapacitate the model maker, and the model should   disappear. Yet there is this stable sense of &quot;I.&quot; The &quot;I&quot; that &quot;shall never   forget.&quot; She is unable to live her own theory.
  
  She says she watched parts of her body which seemed to have nothing to do with   &quot;me.&quot; She experienced being separate from the body. If she was just a model,   created by the body, this would be a very, very unlikely event. Her sense of &quot;I&quot;   or &quot;me&quot; should have dissolved. It should not be viewing the body as though the   two were separate. That is not something of which a mental model is capable.
  
  She seemed to drift away from the body which a model would not do. A model would   remain located in the position in which it was always created. How would a body   create a model outside and distant from the body's perceptual organs? Remember   her earlier contention that the model was created as a result of viewing from   eye level. When we are out of body, we are nowhere near the eyes. She suggests   other models just &quot;take over.&quot; Any other model, she claims. Then why not models   of the &quot;I&quot; burrowing through intestines? Or models of the &quot;I&quot; running down a   nose hair? The body has all kinds of inner data by which to make these models.   But instead we consistently find the &quot;I&quot; outside the body, where the body has no   perceptual tools with which to model.
  
  A few wild leaps of imagination follow: 
  
  &quot;... one possibility is to get back to normal by using whatever information   is available to build a body image and a world. If the sensory input is cut off   or confused this information will have to come from memory and imagination.   Memory can supply all the information about your body, what it looks like, how   it feels and so on. It can also supply a good picture of the world.&quot;
  
  She states the body image and the world disappear and must be reconstructed. The   mental model &quot;I&quot;'an illusory product of the brain'somehow remains in charge and   reconstructs from imagination. 
  
  The research does not support this imagination conjecture. Reports include   physical settings and events that are not contained in memory. Those reporting   distinguish between the experience of recalling memories or imagining and the   experience of perceiving in the present. As pointed out, most people are fairly   well aware of the differences between recalling, imagining, and perceiving in   the present. We know when we stop to recall a past event, we know when we stop   to daydream, and we know when we are in the present perceiving moment to moment.   Most of those reporting NDE know the difference and state they are perceiving   from outside their body very vividly. Not memory. Not imagination. Firsthand,   in-the-present observation. 
  
  (The one time in &quot;normal&quot; life when we often confuse the present with memory and   imagination is when we are drugged, which is when Blackmore experienced NDE. One   might suggest her theory derives from the confusion arising from the drugged   state.)
  
  Blackmore attempts to explain away the common out of body experience of looking   down on the body with a most unusual assertion: 
  
  &quot;... there is one crucial thing we know about memory images. The are often   built in a bird's eyes view. .... Remember the last time you were walking along   the seashore. Do you see the beach as though from where your eyes would be? Or   are you looking from above?&quot;
  
  How does one acquire such bird's eye views in the first place? If it is a memory   that contains an elevated viewpoint, one must ask, where does the perceptual   content come from originally? When did one &quot;fly&quot; in order to have such a memory?
  
  In the particular example given'that of a seashore'one always approaches from a   higher vantage point. The land always descends to the water's edge. Thus, one   can remember the &quot;wide shot&quot; one viewed as one approached. Is this what she   means by bird's eye view memory? (She provide other examples.) In the seashore   example, the &quot;wide shot&quot; one witnessed with one's eyes gives you such a view.   The person merely recalls an eye-level view from higher ground.
  
  When one recalls going to the market, however, does one recall the roof of the   market? Not usually. My hunch is that Blackmore faces an almost intractable   problem with the bird's eye view reported by NDErs. Her theory falls apart on   this point; the seashore example is a &quot;cheat.&quot;
  
  If one eliminates examples with higher vantage points built into the geography,   one is still left with some valid cases of bird's eye view memories. Where might   they come from? It turns out the OBE is more frequent than one might expect and   therein we find the answer to what observes from such a viewpoint in the first   place. The spirit frequently perceives from a wider / higher vantage point than   the vantage possible using the body's senses. We achieve out of body states more   frequently than is acknowledged. This is consistent with the Afterlife   Hypothesis which states the spirit and the body are not the same and thus are   able to be separate to varying degrees at any time.
  
  Blackmore's model does not address the question of how one perceives from a   bird's eye vantage point. Her hypothesis fails to account for perceptions from a   bird's eye view. She fails to ask the critical question'who or what perceives   from that vantage point?
  
  She goes on to say: &quot;The normal model of reality breaks down and the system   tries to get back to normal by building a new model from memory and imagination.   If this model is in a bird's-eye view, then an OBE takes place.&quot; This is her   cornerstone argument for explaining away evidence that supports the Afterlife   Hypothesis and disproves the Dying Brain Hypothesis. In her argument, however,   she fails to:
  
  1) Account for the OBE when the person is not in a situation in which &quot;reality   breaks down.&quot; She fails to account for OBE without drugs, or injury, or near   death.
  
  2) Account for &quot;perceiving in the moment&quot; reports of the NDEers. She fails to   account for their vivid perceptions which differ from recall or imagination.
  
  3) Account for the NDEr's perception of physical events never before   encountered, physical events and details which do not exist in memory.
  
  4) Answer the question of who perceived the bird's-eye view in the first place   in order to &quot;remember it.&quot; NDErs are not shown bird's-eye view films of their   operations prior to the experience. The question remains who or what perceives   from that vantage point?
  
  5) Explain unique events the NDEer viewed which were corroborated by others in   the physical environment.
  
  Blackmore turns away from actual research data, from the reports, and from logic   in constructing her &quot;model.&quot; She makes false claims for her model: &quot;It [her   model] easily accounts for the way the world looks and the fact that apparently   correct details are often mixed with ones that are obviously false. The system   has put together the best information it has...&quot;
  
  In other words, she tosses out significant correct perceptions solely on the   basis that some errors were present. This is analogous to the clicked story of   accident witnesses whose reports vary. Our 'normal' perceptions are rarely, if   ever, one-hundred-percent accurate. Blackmore tells us nothing new and employs   false standards. On that basis, all our perception is invalid. What is   important, however, is that there are correct perceptions. She fails to account   for such correct perception of details from an out of body vantage point that's   impossible to achieve with bodily senses.
  
  She goes on to try to explain away &quot;you&quot; the viewer: 
  
  &quot;In the OBE you actually feel that 'you' are at the imagined point. This makes   sense because it is this imagined world that you control. You can no longer   control the actual body because you no longer have a good body image. Instead,   you have either a new body image, outside the physical, created by memory, or   you are just a moving position, moving as imagination takes you. In either case,   'you' will seem to be at that location because that is what can be controlled by   what you (the system) are thinking about.&quot;
  
  This convoluted explanation fails to conform to the data. It is worth   considering in detail as it forms the crux of her argument that skeptics accept   as &quot;scientific proof':&nbsp; &quot;In the OBE you actually feel that 'you' are at the   imagined point.&quot;
  
  It should be noted that in NDE and OBE reports the &quot;you&quot; that views from   &quot;outside the body&quot; positions is experienced as the same 'you' that perceives in   normal day to day living. In other words, they experience actually being there.   This differs from imagining such a view. The reader can verify the difference by   perceiving the room, moment to moment, then closing his eyes, and viewing the   &quot;memory.&quot; There is a qualitative difference.&nbsp; &quot;This makes sense because it   is this imagined world that you control.&quot;
  
  Reports include viewing objective physical settings and events. This contradicts   the claim of an imagined world that one &quot;controls.&quot; Most people are aware of the   difference between an imaginary world they can move about, as in a daydream, and   the objective world which does not respond to their &quot;control.&quot; The imagination   scenario fails to explain the consistency of NDE reports of viewing outside the   body. Imagination would be more random.
  
  &quot;You can no longer control the actual body because you no longer have a good   body image.&quot;
  
  According to Blackmore, the &quot;you&quot; never controls the actual body. The &quot;you&quot; is   merely a model the body's brain constructs. It controls nothing. It is merely a   &quot;model&quot; that floats behind the eyes as a result of perceptual input processing.   Thus, when the body's brain and senses are incapacitated or traumatized (in some   NDE cases there is no brain activity), the creator of this highly complex and   consistent model is inoperative, which means there should be no &quot;you&quot; to control   (or even view) anything.
  
  &quot;Instead, you have either a new body image, outside the physical, created by   memory,'.'
  
  Why would one have &quot;memories&quot; of something one never experienced? If &quot;you&quot; are   only a brain-created model then &quot;you&quot; can only model body perceptions. The &quot;you&quot;   model has no way to create a memory from an outside viewpoint. The outside   viewpoint reported is not a series of snapshots of prior memories. It contains   moment by moment, in the present, continuity of perception.
  
  If the brain is creating new models under stress, why would it not create that   which it knows best'the inside of the body. Why does the brain not randomly   generate wild trips through the intestines? Why do NDEers consistently report   being outside the body instead? 
  
  ''. or you are just a moving position, moving as imagination takes you. In   either case, 'you' will seem to be at that location because that is what can be   controlled by what you (the system) are thinking about.&quot;
  
  Again, the perceptions of NDErs contradict this explanation. They do not always   view imaginary scenes. They often view objective physical settings. And, as   above, that which creates the model is supposedly out of operation.
  
  Blackmore continues: 
  
  &quot;Why should people be surprised at seeing themselves as others see them? This   is often given as evidence that the OBE cannot be imagination. However, this   does not follow. You may have gathered lots of information about yourself...&quot;
  
  Again, she fails to investigate the actual reports and substitutes conjecture.   When NDErs report they view the body &quot;like others would,&quot; they do not mean they   catch imaginary glimpses compiled from memory. They do not mean they recall   seeing glimpses of themselves in the mirror, or old photos. They view the body   in its entirety from outside, in the moment. The experience is very different   from recalling glimpses in a mirror and old photos.
  
  Thus, her conjecture does not fit the data. Not only is it not scientific proof,   it is conjecture that does not conform to the facts at hand.
  
  (Without going into a long dissertation on the matter, it should be pointed out   her model falls apart when one takes into account OBE phenomena when there are   no drugs, no injuries, no near death. The mechanisms Blackmore proposes   obviously fail to account for such reports.) Moving on from the basic argument   to Blackmore's attempt at supporting her contention:
  
  &quot;... it was suggested that people with vivid imagery would be more likely to   have OBEs. This was found not to be the case, suggesting that OBEs are not   imagination. However, since then it has been found that OBEers have superior   spatial abilities; .... they are better at detecting the viewpoint from which a   three-dimensional object is seen and are better able to switch viewpoints in   their imagination.&quot;
  
  Thus, OBEs are not imagination, as I've stated. The second finding is   interesting'they &quot;are better able to switch viewpoints.&quot; This finding is   consistent with a spirit who can move and assume varied viewpoints without   regard to the body. The Afterlife Hypothesis predicts this outcome.
  
  In an amazing intellectual sleight-of-hand, Blackmore goes on to claim a   bird's-eye viewpoint is a prediction that supports her Dying Brain Hypothesis:  
  
  &quot;Another prediction concerns the habitual use of bird's-eye viewpoints. This   theory predicts that people who habitually imagine things or dream in a   bird's-eye view should be more likely to have OBEs (whether deliberate or   spontaneous). Both Irwin and I have found this correlation for dreaming but not   for waking imagery.&quot;
  
  Blackmore takes a key experience that supports the Afterlife Hypothesis, turns   around and states she is able to predict this experience, and then argues this   supports the opposing Dying Brain Hypothesis. She cleverly takes a factor that   disproves the Dying Brain Hypothesis and claims her ability to predict that   factor supports the Dying Brain Hypothesis. (Though the factor itself does not   support the Dying Brain Hypothesis, she claims her ability to predict this   factor supports the hypothesis.)
  
  As we saw earlier, bird's-eye viewpoints do not support the Dying Brain   Hypothesis, and she has not shown they do. To the contrary, the bird's-eye view   directly supports the Afterlife Hypothesis which postulates the spirit leaving   the body which puts the spirit in a position to have a bird's-eye viewpoint. In   her argument, she shows no way for the bird's-eye view to take place, no way for   that perceptual viewpoint to be achieved. She states the bird's eye view is the   work of imagination and memory, but does not state how that view comes into   being in the first place so it can be imagined or remembered. 
  
  The ability to predict a factor that supports the Afterlife Hypothesis does not   support the Dying Brain Hypothesis.
  
  Her research fails to correlate OBE with imagination, yet she states the OBE is   imagination. Her research correlates the OBE with out of body dream states that   further support the Afterlife Hypothesis which predicts separation from the body   when there is lessened attention on the body, such as in sleep and dreaming.
  
  Blackmore fails in the extreme to explain away the cornerstone evidence for the   Afterlife Hypothesis'the out of body experience. She instead twists the very   essence of the experience, the bird's-eye viewpoint, the viewpoint of a spirit   separate from the body, into a claim for the Dying Brain Hypothesis.
  
  Closing note:

   The remainder of Dying to Live   only furthers the basic errors seen in the earlier chapters. These include a   failure to consider the assumptions of the Afterlife Hypothesis, a failure to   conform to the data on hand, and the presentation of conjecture regarding brain   theories that don't fit the NDE reports. A continued critique would be   redundant, so I will spare the reader a lengthy trip over established ground.
  
  
  Skeptics claim Blackmore provides scientific proof that NDEs are merely brain   phenomena, proof spirit does not exist. This is simply false. Dying to Live   presents conjecture, assumptions, speculation, but no proof. Furthermore, her   conjecture does not match the evidence she presents.
  
  
  The skeptics' second claim, that she has explored both hypotheses as an unbiased   researcher is also false. The major shortcoming of Dying to Live is a failure to   explore or present the Afterlife Hypothesis. It is propped up on false legs in   order to be knocked down. 
  
  
  Every time the evidence and the reports clearly support the Afterlife   Hypothesis, she makes a non-sequitur leap to the Dying Brain Hypothesis. Should   we blame her for not understanding the Afterlife Hypothesis? No. This is not her   area of expertise. 
  What is perhaps most needed in the field of NDE studies is a clear statement of   the Afterlife Hypothesis so authors, like Blackmore, will be forced to address   the actual hypothesis, not straw man versions. 
  
  The following are e-mails exchanged with regard to the above critique.
  
   [Index]
  [Top]
  

  &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;   The  critiquing author, Greg  Stone, grew up with a love  for science, as his father was a physicist. He began his college studies in  physics, but ended up graduating with a degree in psychology (University of  Colorado). After non-degree study in religion at Chicago Theological Seminary at  the University of Chicago, he became a trainer in an Outward Bound-style program  designed for teachers and streetworkers running inner-city schools.  Subsequently, he moved into advertising-related career. His strong interest in  promoting tolerance for religion and individual beliefs led him to direct  &quot;A Campaign to Remember,&quot; the fund-raising film for the U.S. Holocaust  Memorial Museum in Washington, D.C. He believes his personal love for both  science and spiritual matters mirrors a trend in society toward a greater  understanding of the connectedness of the two disciplines.
  
[Index]
  [Top]

A  Response to Critique     of Dying to Live         </O:P>

Susan  Blackmore, March 2001       </O:P>

I  have not claimed that any of my work proves  the Dying Brain Hypothesis. In fact no amount of research ever could. The most I  could hope to do, and in fact what I tried to do in Dying  to Live, is to show that we can account for all the major features of the  NDE without recourse to such ideas as a spirit, a soul, or life after death.

My  account was far from complete, but even if I had provided an extremely detailed  and convincing explanation of every feature - from the tunnel and lights to the  life review - it would always be open to someone to say ... &quot;Right, I agree  that tunnels and lights, and OBEs and life reviews can be explained by what  happens in the brain, but after the brain has finally stopped something else  carries on&quot;. In other words no amount of evidence can prove  the Dying Brain Hypothesis. The best it can do is provide a plausible  explanation of the events leading up to the death of the brain and body. As for  what happens next - each of us will eventually get our own one chance to find  out.

Am  I as horribly biassed as ZipZap suggests?

If  having experiences, doing research and forming opinions based on them means  being biassed then, yes, I am. My obsession with NDEs and OBEs really began back  in 1970 (before the term NDE was even invented) when I had a most extraordinary  and wonderful experience. At the time I called it astral projection because that  was the only name I had for it. Later I realised that I had experienced the  tunnel, the wonderful light, an OBE that lasted several hours, a difficult  decision to return and, finally, a mystical experience which is very difficult  to describe in ordinary words. A few days after the experience I wrote my own  account of it.    </O:P>

After  that experience I was probably very biassed. I was convinced that my soul had  left my body, that I had visited worlds beyond this one, and that death could  not be the end. This is why I decided to give up a sensible career in  psychology, and devote myself to parapsychology instead - to the disgust of my  academic teachers and the horror of my parents.

The  story of what I found is familiar (I wrote about it in In  Search of the Light: The Adventures of a Parapsychologist, Prometheus,  1996). I found that many of my assumptions were wrong; ESP was not round every  corner, scientists were not trying to suppress evidence for it - there just  wasn't any evidence that stood up to scrutiny. I had to change my mind.  Interestingly, having changed my mind in such a dramatic way once, I have little  fear of having to do so again. This is why I say that if any convincing evidence  for the paranormal, or for life after death, comes along I will change my mind  again. So far it has not.

Alongside  all this I began to realise that chasing after the paranormal was an  understandable, but inappropriate reaction to what I had seen. This was a deep,  profound and life-changing experience. Saying that something left the body, or  that it proved the existence of another world, was trivialising it. Gradually I  explored, and found other ways of touching that experience again.

I  have practised Zen now for nearly twenty years. At the heart of this practice  are the ideas of letting go, of non-attachment, and of no-self. The idea is not  that there is no self at all, but that the self is not what we commonly think it  is. 'I' am not a persisting entity separate from the world, but a flowing,  ephemeral, ungraspable part of that world. As anyone who has had a mystical  experience knows, everything is one. I think those lessons, and many more, were  thrust upon me in that original experience. They gave me not only an academic  desire to understand strange experiences but the motivation and insight to  pursue a spiritual life.

As  happens with many NDErs, my experiences and my research have taken away the fear  of death, not because I am convinced that 'I' will carry on after this body  dies, but because I know there is no one to die, and never was. If others, like  ZipZap, disagree that is their prerogative. All any of us can do is seek the  truth to the best of our ability, and - even if that truth turns out to be quite  different from what we hoped or expected - to accept it when we find it.

I  am glad that ZipZap so warmly recommends my book to anyone interested in NDEs. I  hope it will speak for itself and provide interested readers with a way of  understanding the NDE that does justice to the experience without requiring  belief in spirits, souls, or an after life. Whether the theories in it are right  only time and more research will tell.   &nbsp;
  
   [Index]
  [Top]</O:P>  
  
  </O:P>

Additional  notes re:       &nbsp;&nbsp;  Greg Stone's Responsive Response   </O:P>

    Though I was disappointed that Susan Blackmore did not respond to the substance   of my critique, I was extremely pleased that she did clarify some very important   issues. The most important being that she does not claim her work proves the   Dying Brain Hypothesis. Many CSICOP members DO make such a claim on her behalf   and now, with her definitive statement on the record, that will no longer be an   issue. 
  
  The other side of the coin in this regard is that she has not proven the   nonexistence of the spirit. This, too, is often claimed by CSICOP members and   other skeptics to be the case and, I presume, will no longer be an issue. (In my   critique, I go a step further and discuss how her work doesn't even present a   plausible argument for the nonexistence of the spirit, but rather takes evidence   those points quite clearly to the existence of spirit and dismisses it   summarily. No point to rehash the details here.) 
  
  In her response to my critique, she mentions &quot;having experiences, doing   research, and forming opinions.&quot; I'm all for people having experiences and   forming opinions on the subject. My objection, stated in my critique, was that   her opinions were being elevated to the level of scientific proof by those, such   as CSICOP members, who claim to represent the &quot;scientific&quot; viewpoint. As she is   a member and fellow of CSICOP, I would hope she would now make an effort to   clarify the exact status of the work to the membership. 
  
  Personally, I find it ironic that she posted the account of her drug induced out   of body experience on a site that promises a &quot;safe place&quot; for professionals to   post their unusual experiences while she's an active member of a group that's   primarily responsible for making it unsafe to discuss and research such   phenomena. Perhaps she may wish to reconsider her membership in CSICOP? She asks   if I perceive her as being biased (I do), while she notes the bias and social   pressure that exists within her profession and immediate circle. Maybe the   personal bias is merely a function of the institutional and social biases with   which she's surrounded. 
  
  The account of her OBE was invaluable in shedding light on her personal point of   view. While I do not think it appropriate to discuss her personal experience in   a public forum (but am willing to do so in private), the nature of the events   that led to her current position (a la Dying to Live) are quite common. An   extensive drug history, a drug-induced OBE, fear of being able to re enter the   body, and the lack of spiritual knowledge with which to understand the   experience all commonly lead to an &quot;explaining away&quot; of the primary phenomena.   Dying to Live, in my opinion, is merely an extension of this need to &quot;explain   away&quot; a rather profound, but nonetheless frightening and disorienting   experience. 
  
  Rather than take this personal viewpoint as the last word of science on the   matter, I think it is important to take NDEs on their own merit and allow   science to move ahead in understanding exactly what we find, as it is, no matter   where that takes us -- &quot;even if that truth turns out to be quite different from   what we hoped or expected,&quot; as Blackmore states. The evidence points very   clearly in the direction of a consciousness that can exist outside the body and   which survives body death. This is upsetting to many. And yet we must overcome   our emotional queasiness and push forward. 
  
  A last note that echoes all that goes before -- she mentions her tenure in Zen   Buddhism and the pursuit of a spiritual life. In an ironic way, this echoes the   conflict and paradox between the experiences she recounts and her professional   views. One must ask how can one have a spiritual life without spirit? One may   possess humanity and other qualities, but certainly not spirituality without   spirit. One cannot study Buddhism without also studying the spirit and its   existence apart from the body. Buddha's teachings directly addressed the concept   of non-attachment to the body and the physical; and addressed the transcendence   of birth and death, transcendence beyond obsessive reincarnation. Buddha's   teachings addressed exactly that which we find in the NDE, the OBE, and the   past-life recall. The reduction of Buddhism, no matter which &quot;school,&quot; to   physical monism would not make Buddha smile. The concept of non-attachment is   the exact opposite of physical monism, which she presents as Zen Buddhism.   Physical or materialistic monism is total attachment, total identification with   the physical. The exact opposite of Buddhism. Perhaps this best captures the   bias I detect in her work -- an attempt to deny everything spiritual, including   her own experiences and urges toward spirituality, in an effort to reduce   everything to the material. 
  
  And yes, I'm happy to recommend Dying to Live as all viewpoints must be   considered in depth and none discarded out of hand. In retrospect, I wish she   had included the full text of her experience in the book. Perhaps in the next   edition?
  
   [Index]
  [Top]
  
    
  
  Dying  to Live: Near-Death Experiences,  by Susan Blackmore
  Prometheus Books, 59 John Glenn Drive, Buffalo NY 14228-2197
  Published 1993 by Prometheus Books
  Originally published 1993 by Grafton, an imprint of HarperCollins Publishers,  London
  
  
  </O:P>              [Index]
  [Top]


    
  
  And  the winner is... the substance of the NDE debate
    -Dr. Jeff, NDERF

Although  most people who have come to death say they remember nothing, around 20% later  report that 'something happened'.&nbsp;  That  'something' is often a near-death experience (NDE). &nbsp;   NDEs are  relatively common.&nbsp; A Gallup Poll in 1993 led to an estimate that 12 to 15  million Americans personally experienced a NDE.&nbsp; The debate continues  regarding how NDEs occur.&nbsp; I greatly appreciate the comments of both Greg  Stone and Dr. Susan Blackmore on this important issue.&nbsp; I consider both of  them winners as they superbly and candidly represent their opposing views,  demonstrating their mastery of the NDE debate issues.&nbsp;&nbsp;
  
  My personal belief is that NDEs are what NDErs generally believe: a real  encounter with another realm.&nbsp; The following summarizes some of the  evidence supporting my belief.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
  
  What is clear is that NDE is not a hallucination or mental/psychiatric  dysfunction.&nbsp;&nbsp; They are real experiences.&nbsp;   I have extensively reviewed alternative biologic/physiologic explanations  of NDE, and none come close to explaining NDE.&nbsp;   Skeptics have come up with about 20 different  biological/physiological/psychological explanations of NDE.&nbsp;   If there were one or several reasonable and accepted alternative  explanations for NDE, there would not be such a multiplicity and diversity of  these alternative explanations.&nbsp;  This  is a significant point: the skeptics simply cannot come up with one or even  several widely accepted alternative explanations for NDE.&nbsp;   The reason for this is simple: all alternate explanations of NDE  apparently have significant and obvious flaws preventing their wide acceptance.
   
  The first prospective  study of the near-death experience will be published soon in a major medical  journal.&nbsp;  A cardiologist in The  Netherlands (van Lommel) studied 344 cardiac arrest patients.&nbsp;   These patients were surveyed to see if they had a NDE, and again at two  and eight years after their cardiac arrest.&nbsp;   18% of patients had a NDE.&nbsp;  They  found that powerful medications given during resuscitation had no effect on the  probability of a NDE occurring, giving strong support to the concept NDEs are  not occurring via brain action.&nbsp;  There  was no association of the patient's level of fear immediately prior to, and at  the time of, the cardiac arrest with the probability of a NDE occurring.&nbsp;   This gives strong support to the concept that NDEs are not occurring as a  consequence of psychological factors associated with the experience.&nbsp;   The researchers found it usually took many years for the experiencers to  assimilate their experience.&nbsp;  Many  years after their NDE, the experiencers were more likely to have positive  changes in such spiritual issues such as belief in an afterlife, meaning of  their life, showing love and accepting others.&nbsp;   The NDErs studied had a strongly reduced fear of death.&nbsp;   This study, the first of its kind, provides some of the strongest  scientific validation of NDE yet presented.&nbsp;          Virtually  all NDE experiencers I have encountered felt their experience was real,  significant and meaningful. &nbsp;   When  asked directly if the experience was dreamlike in any way, virtually all NDE  experiencers I polled answered no, and often emphatically.&nbsp;   The level of consciousness during the experience was almost always  described as fully alert, and often (as one experiencer described) ' far  more conscious than humanly normal.'&nbsp;  These  experiences seem quite apart from anything encountered in daily living.&nbsp;   Such lucid experiences, while unconscious or clinically dead, cannot be  explained by any 'brain chemical', physiological or psychological cause.&nbsp;   When NDErs surveyed were asked ' Following  the experience, have you had any other events in your life, medications or  substances which reproduced any part of the experience?', 81% answered no.&nbsp;   Those answering 'yes' to the question almost invariably relate some  life event to a feeling or sense of the NDE.&nbsp;   No respondent has yet identified any life event of any kind substantially  reproducing the NDE.
  
  I have reviewed hundreds of NDE experiences and a variety of other experiences  from my three web sites (www.nderf.org, www.adcrf.org,  www.oberf.org).&nbsp;   NDEs are clearly unique in their content among the variety of other  exceptional human experiences. &nbsp;   The commonality of the NDE elements (tunnel experience, encountering a  light, encountering deceased relatives, etc.) suggests the uniqueness of the NDE  experience.&nbsp;  No other class of human  experiences has this constellation of experience elements so consistently and  with such regularity.&nbsp; 
  
  There are several dozen recorded NDEs of individuals blind (even from birth) who  had a visual NDEs (see Dr. Ken Ring's book 'Mindsight').&nbsp;   Auditory NDEs among the totally deaf have been recorded.&nbsp;   I have a NDE from an individual with no sense of smell who was able to  smell flowers during their NDE.&nbsp;  Again,  skeptics cannot present a plausible alternative explanation for these types of  experiences.
  
  NDErs often return having seen or heard events in the out of body state during  their NDE that is verified later as accurate.&nbsp;    These  details (which may include a pronouncement of death) are often later confirmed  by others who are generally astonished and mystified that the experiencer was  aware of these events while unconscious.&nbsp;  I  have yet to find a NDE account in which what was seen or heard during the out of  body state was later proven false.&nbsp;  Cardiologist  Dr. Sabom studied 32 cardiac arrest survivors who had a NDE and claimed to have  seen their own resuscitation.&nbsp;  He  interviewed a control group of 23 cardiac arrest survivors who did not have a  NDE, but were asked to describe their best guess as to what their resuscitation  looked like.&nbsp;  The NDE group was  extremely accurate and without error in describing their resuscitation, often in  extreme detail.&nbsp;  Of the control  group, who did not have a NDE, 20 of 23 made serious errors.&nbsp;   In my survey, NDErs were asked 'Did you observe or hear anything  regarding people or events during your experience that could be verified  later?'.&nbsp;  37% answered  affirmatively. &nbsp;   Some NDE accounts include awareness of deceased relatives that the NDEr  did not know existed until they were encountered during the experience.&nbsp;   Confirmation of the existence of these deceased relatives is later  established. These types of evidential accounts, extensively documented on the www.nderf.org  accounts and multiple other sources, are among the strongest evidence for the  validity of NDE.
  
  A basic concept of science is to develop a model that best explains  investigational observations.&nbsp;  The  evidence, NDE experiences, are extensively documented.&nbsp;   By far the best model explaining the NDE evidence is that they are indeed  an encounter with a different realm, which is exactly what NDErs generally  believe.&nbsp;  No other alternative  'brain chemical', physiological or psychological model better accounts for  the evidence in NDE accounts.
  
   It  is difficult to answer the question if NDE proves life after death. &nbsp; I  don't really believe there is a right or wrong answer to that question.&nbsp;   For many people, and I am one of them, the NDE evidence is strong enough  to constitute proof of life after death.&nbsp;  However,  such remarkable claims require remarkably convincing evidence.&nbsp;   Given this, very reasonable people may reasonably deny the NDE evidence  for life after death is fully convincing.&nbsp;  Each  person must decide on their own and in their own time if they believe there is  life after death.&nbsp;  The evidence for  life after death includes much more than NDE evidence!&nbsp;&nbsp;   Accepting NDE requires acceptance there is a huge part of the universe  around us we do not know and cannot perceive.&nbsp;   And that is challenging to accept.&nbsp;  Equally  challenging to accept is the understanding that this unknown and unperceived  part of the universe is ruled by love.&nbsp;  Love  is by far the number one most common word NDErs use to describe their  experience.&nbsp;  This, and other aspects  of the NDE experience, touches on religious issues that make it difficult for  many people to accept NDE as valid.&nbsp;  Again,  people may make their own determination.&nbsp;  For  virtually all NDErs, they know there experience was real.&nbsp;


  [Index]
  [Top]
  
  
  
  
  And  the winner is... the form of the NDE debate
  -Dr. Jeff, NDERF
    
  There are no losers in any interchange of ideas where each side presents their  informed opinions with honesty, integrity and respect for all parties.&nbsp; All  readers of the preceding interchange of ideas are winners if they have learned  to better understand the issues.&nbsp; The NDE debate will be with us for a long  time.&nbsp; There has been and will be continued debate on this important issue.&nbsp;  The debate will not go away soon.&nbsp;&nbsp;
  
  The NDE debate has too often degenerated into personal attacks and harsh  judgmental statements.&nbsp; Many individuals have avoided discussing their  views of NDE (both NDE &quot;skeptics&quot; and &quot;believers&quot;) out of  fear of encountering such negativity.&nbsp; I am one of those individuals.&nbsp;  Although I am a doctor, no doctor I have ever worked with knows of my  involvement with NDE.&nbsp; No doctor I have ever worked with professionally  knows of my personal NDE-like experience and how it transformed my life.&nbsp; I  personally fear negative judgments by those I work with daily regarding my NDE  work and NDE-like experience, and how it could harm me professionally.&nbsp;&nbsp;
  
  I call on each and every one of you reading this to please be aware NDE can be a  very emotional topic.&nbsp; Accepting the reality of NDE can validate a NDErs  most profound life experience, or clash with another's deeply held belief  system.&nbsp; In all discussion, and especially in all debate about NDE, I  implore you to do so expressing your deepest integrity, honesty, understanding  and love.&nbsp; All who have thoughtfully considered the NDE mystery have their  unique ideas that are pieces of the puzzle to our collective understanding of  NDE.&nbsp; When we exchange our ideas regarding NDE lovingly, freely, respecting  and learning from others viewpoints, we will collectively grow in understanding  the truth about NDE.
  
  
  [Index]
  [Top]&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;  

  Copyright1999 by Dr. Jeff and Jody Long


  e-mail:   &nbsp;   Webmaster:&nbsp; Jody A. Long
  
  
  &nbsp;</body>  </html>

[1] https://www.nderf.org/NDERF/Books/Dying%20To%20Live%20Critique.htm