{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/NDERF\/Books\/knowing_better_than_wondering.htm","mytitle":"&#65533;KNOWING IS BETTER THAN WONDERING&#65533;","mylang":"de"}
          	&#65533;KNOWING IS BETTER THAN WONDERING&#65533;                     	            		

          		KNOWING IS BETTER THAN WONDERING    		          
  		A SUMMARY OF THE BOOK      
  Home Page  Current NDEs  Share NDE</span>     	</tr>

By J. Steve Dawson   You can read the entire book at:  </b>  www.parkcitiespress.com

I witnessed my wife's experience   as three spirits briefly made contact with her. She was not having a near death   experience; however, she saw the 'light' and the light consisted of countless   individual luminescent spirits. From her account of her experience I have   experienced several realizations and now understand the implications of what   happened to her. &nbsp;

Based upon numerous hours of   conversation with my wife about her experience, my explanation follows: &nbsp;Another   dimension exists which supports this dimension. Spirits inhabit that dimension.   Spirits do not resemble the human form, except that they appear to have two   distinct features resembling eyes. Their ability to travel exceeds any known   measurement in terms of time, distance and speed. They recognize this human   experience as being separate from their own. They have compassion for humans and   they do not judge human behavior. Their existence in their dimension remains   pure. The spirit experience remains unified and not dual. They do not appear to   have the unlimited ability to visit here unrestrained. This information   parallels the description of the dual nature of this earthly experience and the   unity of the spirit experience given by the late Joseph Campbell, Professor of   comparative religions at Sarah Lawrence College, and author of many books on the   subject of human religions.&nbsp;

From this information I have   distilled the following: The spirit remains indestructible as a distinct entity   separate from the human form. The human experience merely punctuates the   spirit's experience. The human psyche results from brain chemistry. The human   personality is influenced by the perceptions created by the brain and the human   environment. The personality becomes the product of the struggle between the   human emotions created by our physical form and the divine virtues associated   with our spirit form. When the human experience ends and we return to the pure   spirit form we no longer experience the human emotions created by the dual   nature of the human experience. In spirit form we know only the unity of   thought, consciousness and perception experienced in its purest form. The   spirits are conscious of the dual nature, the ethics, morality, etc., of the   human earthly experience, but exist separate and apart from that distinctly   human experience.&nbsp;

The human experience has been   created for a purpose. This temporary human experience has a dream like quality   when compared to the reality of our permanent immortal spirit existence. The   experience of the spirit while in human form has aspects which appear to be   instructive. The design of the human experience remains rooted in physics. The   omniscient nature of the intelligence which empowers the creative process cannot   be disobeyed. The laws of that entity which the human form and all other forms   of consciousness remain compelled to obey are the laws of physics. These laws   define the development and existence of all forms of consciousness on earth. The   patterns of existence which all forms must obey become the rituals of existence   for those forms. Transformation in the form of birth; existence of the spirit in   human form; and transformation in the form of death are the only experiences   commanded of all forms. There are no other rituals ordained by the forces of   creation. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;

The brief history of the human   form demonstrates that humankind has been wrong more often than right, due in   part to the fact that the brain is a secondary organ of the body. Religion, as   the human attempt to define experiences which defy explanation and as the   attempt to personify the forces of creation, becomes at best a means of   reassuring the fragile human psyche. History has proven that mystery does not   exist, that the future does exist and that the explanation of mystery relies   upon the occurrence of future events. In addition, history gives us the   understanding of causation. All events have one source of causation. The human   interpretation and perception of those events becomes the human description of   this experience which controls the dialogue here on earth. &nbsp;

Human perception and perspective,   because of their design limitations, cannot be used to establish absolutely the   true nature of this dimension and certainly not the next. However, the   experience my wife described has contributed greatly to my understanding. The   importance of this understanding has changed my perspective of this experience.   I now know that the dialogue between my earth bound spirit and my spirit family,   in the other dimension, is ongoing and only limited by life's distractions.&nbsp; My   spirit is indestructible and will not be judged because the duality of   experience only exists here in this dimension. Emotion is the language of the   spirit, not conscious thought. Compassion, love and acceptance become the most   desirable emotions because my wife felt the compassion, love and acceptance of   the spirits who visited her. This is the message which Jesus has been credited   with bringing to this experience. This is why we revere his spirit. We do not   believe any of the impossible or improbable descriptions used by humans to deify   the human or any other form. While here on earth all forms obey the omniscient   laws, the laws of physics.&nbsp; &nbsp;

I'm certain there are other   important realizations which I have inadvertently omitted from this brief   description. I cannot emphasize too strongly that most people have been given,   myself included, the wrong information about this experience from birth. If the   world could ever recognize the true nature of this temporary simulation, the   advancement of human understanding and therefore human behavior would have the   necessary foundation for positive change. Until that occurs humankind remains   destined to repeat the unhealthy behaviors created by the human experience's   reliance upon ego, fear and ignorance.&nbsp;

We have now reached a place in our   experience where love and compassion for the spirit have dispensed with our   former reliance upon our lesser human emotions which caused us to judge, suffer   from hypocrisy and the distractions of meaningless faith based ritual mysteries   invented by other human forms.

JS Dawson&nbsp;&nbsp; Copyright   - 2006

&nbsp;

&nbsp;&nbsp;    </body>  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/NDERF/Books/knowing_better_than_wondering.htm