{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/NDERF\/Articles\/Pew's%20NDE%20Thesis.htm","mytitle":"NDE in Western Culture- Master's Thesis","mylang":"de"}
          	NDE in Western Culture- Master's Thesis                    	            		

THE  SIGNIFICANCE OF THE NEAR-DEATH EXPERIENCE IN  WESTERN CULTURAL TRADITIONS - Master's  Thesis by Alan Pew    
  Home Page  Current NDEs  Share NDE</span>     	</tr>      </b>

  NDERF  Gives a special thanks to   Alan Pew   ( e-mail   link alanp46@comcast.net ), who  kindly has allowed his Master's Thesis to be published on this web site.   
     
   Abstract

  THE SIGNIFICANCE OF THE NEAR-DEATH   EXPERIENCE IN WESTERN CULTURAL TRADITIONS

Despite the   failure of the scientific, philosophical and religious communities to attribute   importance to the near-death experience, the phenomenon has been, and continues   to be, a significant motif in Western cultural traditions.&nbsp; This paper shows   this significance by identifying and analyzing works in the fields of Western   fictional literature, art, film and religion which contain the near-death   experience as a major motif.     Introduction

    Although Dr. Raymond Moody , in his 1975 best-selling book Life After Life, is   generally credited with coining the phrase &quot;near-death experience&quot; (NDE), it is   the work of two psychiatrists, Russell Noyes, and Elizabeth Kubler-Ross, in the   early 1970's&nbsp; that generated contemporary interest in the phenomenon (Walker &amp;   Serdahely, 111-112). Since that time, there have been a plethora of popular   books, magazine and newspaper articles, talk show discussions, and   investigations which have examined, discussed, analyzed and theorized about the   NDE from a variety of vantage points. Unfortunately, however,&nbsp; the anecdotal and   subjective nature of the NDE does not lend itself well to definitive   verification within the scientific method. And, since such scientific inquiry is   the foundation of truth within most Western societies, this lack of   verifiability has hindered acceptance of the phenomenon within the scientific   community (Walker &amp; Serdahely, 108). So, though there has been over a quarter of   a century of research studies into the near-death experience by experts in the   fields of medicine, biology, psychology, philosophy, and theology, they are   still unable to definitively explain the phenomenon or its meaning in human   life. A review of the literature generated by this research reveals a general   feeling of skepticism, and in many cases, outright denial of the existence of   the near-death experience (Walker &amp; Serdahely, 108).&nbsp; Even within studies that   acknowledge its existence, many are unwilling to attribute any more then cursory   significance of the phenomenon to humanity. The near-death experience has often   been explained away as simply drug-induced hallucinations, depersonalization,   limbic lobe dysfunction, ego regression, Freudian reductionism and birth-recall   models (Walker &amp; Serdahely, 118).&nbsp;&nbsp; It is this indifference and/or denial which   provides the impetus and rationale for this paper. It is my contention that,   while the scientific, philosophical and religious communities fail to attribute   importance to the near-death experience, it has been, and continues to be a   significant motif in Western cultural traditions. In support of this contention,   I will research the fields of Western literature, visual arts (film and art),   and religion in an effort to identify those works which contain the near-death   experience as a major motif, in order to show its significance in those fields.&nbsp;     The Near-Death Experience in Literature

  Written   accounts of near-death related experiences have existed in Humankind's writings   since early antiquity and gained contemporary popularity through the publication   of works by researchers such as Noyes, Kubler-Ross and Moody in the early   1970's. Other researchers soon joined the parade of authors who offered their   own specific views, results, conclusions and, in some cases, questions about the   phenomenon. Some of these non-fictional offerings either supported or disputed   the views, results or conclusions of previous writers. Others presented new or   different foci or perspectives in the analysis of the phenomenon. While these   non-fictional offerings are certainly informative, thought provoking and   important in the investigation of the near-death experience (NDE), their   significance as part of Western cultural traditions will only be reviewed as   supplementary reference materials in this paper. The primary focus of this   section, as well as the next section on the near-death experience in visual   arts, will be the review of fictional works that contain the near-death   experience motif. Throughout the review of these works, there will undoubtedly   be situations where the particular work has been produced in more then one   genre. For example, a book may later be produced as a movie or vice-versa.   Unless the remake is significantly altered so that its relevancy to this paper   is changed, I will present the work only once and in the genre which I feel is   most familiar to the general reader or most pertinent to this paper.

  A review of   the field of fictional literature reveals numerous books, poems and plays from   various historical periods that contain motifs that depict near-death or related   experiences. The depictions of these experiences include stories in which the   NDE phenomenon is specifically identified and where this phenomenon is an   integral part of the storyline. In these examples, it is fairly easy to pick out   nearly all of Moody's 15 NDE elements (LAL, 34-97). There are also stories in   which the NDE is not specifically identified, yet they contain specific examples   of Moody's elements and/or NDE related phenomena. In these examples the NDE may   be critical to the storyline or it may be of less overall importance then in the   previous category. Some of the stories contain specific references to the NDE or   related phenomena, but their importance to the overall storyline is minimal or   non-existent. And, finally, there are stories in which the NDE is only   allegorically referenced for a&nbsp; variety of reasons. I will identify a number of   works within each of these categories and across a variety of forms in an effort   to show the wide ranging impact the NDE has had in the field of fictional   literature.

  Written in   1981 by Peter Carey, Bliss is a novel in which the NDE is critically   important. In it, a middle-aged man briefly experiences death as a result of a   heart attack. Experiencing both heaven and hell during his brief trip to the   'other side', he returns to life a changed man. Identification of the near-death   experience is clearly specific and apparent, yet it is the transformative   consequences of these experiences which form the basic foundation of the story.  Death Trip, a novel written by Mark Littleton in 1992 is also critically   dependent upon the near-death experience for its story. In it a crazed professor   at a seminary college has developed a drug which induces temporary death in its   users allowing them to embark on brief, otherworld journeys into the afterlife.   The professor runs afoul of the law when he forcibly induces these experiences   on a young boy in an effort to refine the drug to allow for deeper journeys.   Again, the NDE is clear and specific with nearly all of Moody's elements   apparent in the story. In The Edge of Paradise (Anderson, 1995) and In   Heaven as on Earth (Peck, 1996), the near-death experience is specifically   referenced and critically important to the plot. In each of these religiously   focused novels, the body of the protagonist dies from illness but his   consciousness continues to exist. What follows are riveting, thought provoking   experiences encountered by these disembodied consciousness' as they travel the   mysterious world of the afterlife. The 1951 short story A Descent into the   Maelstrom, by Edgar Allan Poe, contains a number of Moody's elements,   including a spellbinding description of a vortex of water, the border of an   idyllic world, ineffability, a reluctance to tell others and a major   transformation in the protagonist's values and attitudes towards life. Though   written 84 years prior to Moody's labeling, Ambrose Bierce clearly outlines the   NDE phenomenon in An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge. This 1891 story   recounts the after death experiences of a man hung as a Confederate spy during   the American Civil War and includes the tunnel, a loud buzzing at the moment of   death, meetings with spirits of loved ones and the border.&nbsp; Similarly, Katherine   Porter's 1938 work, Pale Horse, Pale Rider , presents specific   experiences of Miranda, the main character, which are clearly examples of a   near-death experience (Straight, 107). In fact, Straight contends that these   experiences are based upon Porter's own near-death experiences in the influenza   epidemic of 1918 (108).

  Lest the   reader envision that only 'recent' works of fiction contain specific references   describing the near-death experience, attention is drawn to Pearl, an   obscure poem written in the latter part of the fourteenth century by an unknown   poet. This poem describes the journey of the spirit of a man who has been   traumatized by the death of his daughter. Obviously written long before the   naming of the phenomenon, this is an alliterative work which illuminates the   transformative powers of the near-death experience and has been found to contain   at least 11 of Moody's 15 elements (Gunn, 135). Also, in the tenth book of   The Republic, written by the Greek philosopher Plato over 300 years before   the birth of Christ, there is the story of Er, a soldier who is killed in battle   but whose body returns to life on the funeral pyre. Er recounts an incredible   story of experiences encountered by his consciousness while his body lies dead   on the battlefield. Again, many of Moody's elements are easily identifiable.

  Another   common motif which is indicative of modern near-death experiences is the story   of fantastic journeys to other worlds. Again, many of the selections indicated   were written well before Moody's labeling of the near-death experience, yet   their stories are strongly consistent with contemporary accounts of passages   into other worlds as reported during modern NDE accounts. Researchers have found   some of the strongest links in the realm of children's literature. Specifically,   Swift's Gulliver's Travels, Carroll's twin tales Alice in Wonderland   and Through the Looking Glass, Barrie's Peter Pan, and Lewis's   The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe (Greene, F.G., Motifs, 206-207). Within   these well known, whimsical tales, the protagonists are shown to travel to   fantastic other worlds inhabited by a variety of strange and interesting beings.   The experiences that these fictional characters encounter have a correlative   relationship with those reported in modern NDE accounts (Greene, F.G., Motifs,   212). In his travels to the land of the sorcerers, Gulliver is shown to converse   with the dead. Likewise, the young travelers in Peter Pan encountered a   number of beings, some of which are thought to be the spirits of dead people   (Hearn, Intro). Encounters with the souls of dead people is common in modern   near-death experiences (Greene, F.G., Motifs, 210). Alice in Alice in   Wonderland&nbsp; entered her fantastic otherworld by falling into a dark hole,   Lucy, in The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe, enters hers by entering a   long dark wardrobe. Both of these accounts present imagery suggestive of the   tunnel motif which abounds in the modern NDE (Greene, F.G., Motifs, 212 &amp; 221).   Additionally, in Alice's trip into her mirror in Through the Looking Glass,   she sees a reverse optical doubling of herself which is reminiscent of similar   experiences reported during some out-of-body experiences reported in modern NDE   accounts (Couliano, 155). Throughout each of these fantasy works, common NDE   phenomena, such as the separation of consciousness from the body, movement by   floating or flying, and the radical distortion of time and space, are   specifically suggested (Greene, F.G., Motifs, 222). In another children's   classic, The Velveteen Rabbit, Kellehear has identified the theme of   death and renewal which he feels is 'strikingly similar to the near-death   experience' (Kellehear, 36). To support this contention, Kellehear points out   that this theme includes a separation at the time of death when the rabbit is   taken from the boy and stuffed into a dark sack (Kellehear, 44). Upon its   emergence from that sack, the rabbit undergoes a life review and encounters a   being, a fairy, who takes it on a fantastic journey to another world in which   immortality is common (Kellehear, 44). This image seems to parallel accounts   reported in the modern near-death experience (Kellehear, 44).

  There are   other, ancient literary works that contain motifs of fantastic journeys that are   consistent with near-death ecstatic voyages. In the sixth book of Virgil's   Aeneid, the hero, Aeneas, is depicted visiting the underworld of the dead.   His entrance into this underworld was gained by plunging into an open cavern of   darkness. His journey takes him through the various kingdoms of this underworld   where he encounters the souls of numerous dead people. Finally, at the end of   his journey through this mysterious world, he enters into the Land of Joy, a   brilliant place of great happiness and beauty. Before his return to the land of   the living, Aeneas is permitted a glimpse of the future. It is not difficult to   see the suggestion of various NDE elements depicted in this writing. The journey   itself strongly suggests a separation of consciousness from the body. The   plunging into the darkened cavern is analogous to the modern tunnel account. The   brilliant light and the border into the land of ineffable pleasure and beauty   are also reminiscent of modern NDE accounts, as are the encounters with souls of   the dead.

  Similarly,   the Divine Comedy, written between 1310 and 1314 by Dante Alighieri, also   depicts a fantastic journey into the otherworld. Guided by Virgil, Dante   descends through the realm of the dead, encountering the souls of men of whom he   is familiar. The underworld into which Dante descends exists without time or   change (Auerbach, 142). This is similar to the distortion of time that is common   in modern NDE accounts. Homer's Odyssey is also said to present images   that correspond favorably with modern near-death experiences. F.G. Greene, in   his intriguing discourse on the subject, points out several images in this   ancient Greek classic which, he feels, correlate with the ecstatic, otherworld   journeys of some modern near-death experiencers (Odysseus 225-226). He notes   that the voyage of Odysseus contains sensations such as floating out of the   physical body, the tunnel effect and emergence into worlds of immense beauty and   love (Greene, F.G., Odysseus, 226). In his travels through Hades, Odysseus   encounters numerous souls of the dead, including his mother. When Odysseus   attempts to hug her, she passes right through him. F.G. Greene points out that   at least one researcher has reported this phenomenon in modern NDE accounts   (Odysseus, 235). Finally, in recounting the meeting between Odysseus and   Teiresias, reference is made to another common NDE element, the panoramic life   review, which includes future as well as past events (Greene, F.G., Odysseus,   236).

  The NDE, and   related motifs, have been found not only in epic poems such as Pearl and  The Aeneid, but are also present in shorter poetry as well. It has been   suggested that the early 20th century poem Renascence, by Edna St.   Vincent Millay, describes a transcendent experience akin to an NDE (Cusumano).   In Just Lost When I Was Saved, Emily Dickinson presents an image of the   narrator's return to life from death (Henderson and Oakes, 236). And Walt   Whitman, in his Song of Myself, describes the luminous dream experiences   of a clairvoyant persona whose spiritual illumination includes the sensation of   an expanded sense of hearing and touch, a radical distortion of time and space,   encounters with the spirits of familiar dead persons and the ability to identify   with 'all joys and agonies of the past, present and future' (Aspiz, 174-175).   Each of these experiences appear to be consistent with modern NDE accounts.

  The   continuation of consciousness motif is also evident in at least one theatrical   writing. In Thornton Wilder's play, Our Town, one of the characters,   Emily, dies and returns with other dead entities, to observe the burial of her   former body. Not yet accustomed to her status as a dead person, Emily is   permitted to return to life to relive her twelfth birthday. However, not only   will she return to relive that day, but she will also actually be able to watch   herself live it. This experience would appear to be similar to the reports of   autoscopic experiences of some OBE accounts of modern near-death experiencers.   Additionally, Emily's desire to return to the land of the dead at the end of   this episode is suggestive of the reluctance on the part of many near-death   experiencers to return to life. The life review element, so common to NDE   accounts, has been identified in numerous literary works. Nicholl identifies   five well-known stories in which the life review is portrayed in characters   facing death (Nicholl, 85-86). Nicholl contends that the life reviews depicted   in Tolstoy's The Death of Ivan Illych, Hemingway's The Snows of   Kilimanjaro, Porter's The Jilting of Granny Weatherall, Cather's   Neighbor Rosicky, and Olsen's Tell Me a Riddle, correlate with the   fifth stage of death as identified by Kubler-Ross (Nicholl, 95).&nbsp; Not every   depiction of the near-death experience in fictional literature is important to   the storyline of the work. In Hemingway's Farewell to Arms, the   protagonist, Frederic, is wounded by an Austrian trench mortar and undergoes a   brief episode where he 'felt myself rush bodily out of myself' and 'I knew I was   dead' (54). After brief sensations of floating, Frederic felt himself slide back   into his body. All of these experiences are clearly consistent with the   near-death experience. In this instance, however, the phenomenon appears as   little more then an enhancement, having virtually no impact on the overall   storyline. Yet its inclusion seems to illustrate an awareness of the near-death   phenomenon as an intriguing subject, an idea that is understandable since   Hemingway, like Porter, is reported to have undergone a near-death experience   (Walker and Serdahely, 107).

  This review   has not been presented as, nor is it purported to be, an exhaustive listing of   fictional works which contain the near-death or related experiences, but rather   as a sampling of identified works across a variety of genres, in an effort to   show the significance of the phenomenon in the field.&nbsp;    The Near-Death Experience in the Visual Arts

The   focus of this section is on the presentation of a survey conducted to identify   works in the visual arts that contain the near-death experience as a major   motif. In this instance, the visual arts will be separated into two separate   forms, art and film.

  In the   preceding section on literature, the search for the near-death experience motif   was conducted in works in which the themes of the works were developed with the   help of extended and continuously flowing written narratives. The identification   of the near-death experience motif in these works was fairly simple, either by   direct allusion to the phenomenon or through specific allegorical reference. In   the search of our first form of visual art, there are no extended or   continuously flowing narratives to assist in the identification of the   near-death experience motif. Perhaps because of the static nature of most   artwork, there were no works that could be specifically offered as representing   a complete near-death experience. This does not mean, however, that the world of   art is completely devoid of the near-death motif. This search has revealed   several works of art that could be interpreted as representative of one or more   of Moody's elements or of specific near-death accounts that have been commonly   reported by experiencers. Probably the most widely publicized work of art to be   specifically identified as representative of the near-death experience is   Hieronymous Bosch's Ascent in the Empyrean. Created sometime during the   late 15th to early 16th century, this 'profoundly&nbsp; significant'&nbsp; work depicts   angels guiding a soul through a dark tunnel toward a brilliant light which has   been identified as Abraham's bosom (MacGregor, 33). This painting seems to   contain a number of near-death elements including the tunnel, the light and the   encounter with spiritual beings. In addition, the flight of the angels could be   construed as reminiscent of the sensation of floating sometimes mentioned in   near-death experiences. Although created more then 200 years before Moody's   labeling of the near-death experience phenomenon, it is easy to see why Alice   Turner claims that Ascent into the Empyrean 'bears an uncanny resemblance   to modern near-death experiences' (125). Similarly, Dore's Vision of the   Empyrean, painted in 1868 as an illustration to Dante's The Divine Comedy,   shows Dante and his escort Beatrice, facing the brilliant light of the Empyrean   through a vivid vortex of angelic beings (Grof and Grof, 63). This vortex could   be seen as suggestive of Moody's tunnel, while the presence of angels is   indicative of the encounter with spiritual beings. The separation of body and   spirit is reflected in the painting The Soul Hovering Above the Body by   English artist and poet William Blake. Created in the early 19th century, this   eerie work shows the soul of a dead young woman hovering above and looking down   at her lifeless body. Francesco Traini intimates a similar separation of spirit   and body in a section of the 14th century painting, The Triumph of Death.   Here, however, souls are shown being dragged from the mouths of the dying by   hideous devils (Hughes, 243).

  Though not   always publicly acknowledged, one of the frequent interpretations of the   near-death experience phenomenon is that it, somehow, provides the human race   with a glimpse into what our existence will be like after our death (Moody, TLB,   151). As we shall see in the next chapter, two of the major Western religions,   Christianity and Islam, espouse the idea of life after death as a major   component. Besides the written narratives contained in the various holy books   and religious writings, the concept of the afterlife is often manifested in the   images contained in religious paintings, sculpture and other forms of art. Of   the various themes and stories included in religious art, by far the most   prevalent are the depictions of the afterlife worlds of heaven and hell.   (Hughes, 7). Although too numerous to list here, many of the works which depict   these two opposing afterlife destinations contain images which are reminiscent   of near-death experience elements or descriptions of visions recalled by   near-death experiencers. For example, in the 15th century painting, The Last   Judgement by Fra Angelico, paradise (heaven) is seen as a garden full of   beautiful flowers in which joyful friends are spiritually reunited (Aries,   170-171). This painting seems to depict scenes which could be correlative with   the paradisiacal scenes encountered in many modern near-death experiences   including meetings with the spirits of loved ones, the sense of total peace and   well-being and the world of intense beauty. Conversely, many of the depictions   of hell contain images that correlate favorably with some accounts of hellish   near-death experiences. These accounts include lifeless or threatening   apparitions, barren or ugly expanses, danger and the possibility of violence or   torture and temperature extremes (Atwater, 41). Bosch's 16th century painting,  Hell, is an example of a work that contains all of these images.

  &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The   large volume of examples resulting from the search for the near-death experience   motif in our second form of visual art, film, necessitates their organization   into some sort of logical order. Accordingly, the examples will be organized   chronologically by year with the earliest examples listed first. A number of   the examples in this section were re-made at later dates. When this situation   occurs, the initial production will be covered in detail in the year of its   release. This coverage will include the title and year of any re-makes. This is   the only coverage that will be provided for these re-makes.&nbsp;

  The search   for the near-death experience in film reveals our first example, a 1930 offering   entitled Outward Bound. This obscure drama is based upon a popular   Broadway play and takes place aboard a mysterious ship filled to capacity with a   disparate group of passengers, all but two of whom are dead. This allegorical   fantasy chronicles the experiences of these two misfits, a young couple who have   committed suicide but have not yet crossed over to the land of the dead (IMDb).   This movie, which was re-made in 1944 as Between Two Worlds and in 1961   as The Flight that Disappeared, presents the continuation of   consciousness after death, encounters with spiritual beings and the journey to   the other world which are all suggestive of the near-death experience. A few   years later, in 1934, Death Takes a Holiday depicts Death as he takes on   human form and, eventually, falls in love. Dismayed by this feeling he decides   to return to the netherland. To his surprise, the object of his affections   insists on accompanying him. Reluctantly he agrees and they both return to the   land of the dead. While some of the concepts in this film could be construed as   reminiscent of modern near-death accounts, the relationship is considered very,   very allegorical (Migliaccio). Moving on to 1939,&nbsp; there is nothing allegorical   about the relationship between the near-death experience and the classic musical   fantasy film, The Wizard of Oz. Probably the most well known of the   movies to be cited here, Migliaccio has identified The Wizard of Oz as&nbsp;   'the absolute best movie capturing most of the key NDE elements' and, he   conjectures, it would 'take hours to make all of the connections' between the   two (Migliaccio). The hero, Dorothy, is struck in the head by a falling window   frame and knocked unconscious. During her period of unconsciousness, she embarks   on a fantastic journey that begins with her house being sucked into the vortex   of a huge cyclone that deposits her in Munchkinland, a section of the Land of   Oz. This strange and beautiful land is inhabited by a number of small, odd   beings that respond to Dorothy's pleas for help in getting back home by   directing her to the great Wizard in the Emerald City. Her journey to the   magnificent Emerald City is marked by numerous encounters with other strange   beings, some of which have very familiar faces. Upon her return to   consciousness, Dorothy undergoes a significant change in her appreciation for   life. Besides the obvious correlation between the cyclone and Moody's tunnel,   The Wizard of Oz, contains at least 9 other elements including,   ineffability, the separation of consciousness, encounters with loved ones, the   being of light, the life review, approaching the boundary, the return to   physical body and the transformation of values and attitudes toward life.

  The decade of   the 1940's finds a plethora of films that contain the near-death experience, or   related phenomena, as a major motif. The 1940 box office flop, The Blue Bird,   tells the story of a young girl's magical trip through the past, present and   future in search of the Blue Bird of Happiness (IMDb). Her travels, which   include a visit with her dead grandparents, could be seen as correlative to the   separation of body and spirit and the journey to the other world, common in   near-death accounts. Also in 1940, the animated Disney classic Fantasia   includes an out-of-the-body scene in which Mickey, as a sorcerer's apprentice,   floats out of his body during a dream (Greene F.G., Motifs, 213). In 1941,   Here Comes Mr. Jordan, is seen as a landmark film in the establishment of   the imagery of the near-death experience shown in almost all near-death related   films of the 1940's (Migliaccio). Re-made in 1978 as Heaven Can Wait,   this supernatural comedy presents the experiences of Joe, a professional boxer   (a professional football player in the re-make) who is mistakenly ushered to   heaven by an overzealous celestial escort. Because his mortal body has been   cremated by the time the mistake is discovered, Joe is permitted to return to   Earth in the body of a murdered, cold-hearted businessman. Ineffability, hearing   oneself pronounced dead, the tunnel, the light, the life review and a variation   on the return to the physical body are all apparent here. There was another   Heaven Can Wait, released in 1943, which presents the story of a dead man   whose spirit goes to hell only to have his credentials questioned. What follows   is an entertaining review of his life, concentrating especially on the women he   has known. The separation, the life review and the encounter with others are all   evident in this sophisticated comedy. Also in 1943, the&nbsp; musical drama Cabin   in the Sky, relates the story of Joe Jackson who is seriously injured in a   barroom brawl. Dreaming of a heavenly struggle for his soul, Joe is permitted to   return to life to clean up his act. The separation, the light, the life review   and the change in values are identifiable in this delightful classic. Possessing   a similar relationship to the near-death experience as Here Comes Mr. Jordan,   the 1943 fantasy production A Guy Named Joe, tells the story of a dead   Army pilot who ascends to heaven and whose spirit returns to Earth to assist his   grieving girlfriend to find love with another pilot (IMDb). This movie was   re-made in 1989 as Always. In the 1946 comedy, Angel on My Shoulder,   the Devil arranges for a deceased mobster to make amends for his misdeeds by   returning to Earth as a well respected judge (IMDb). The separation, the life   review, the value changes and the change in attitude towards life are some of   the elements represented here. One of the 'must see' movies for every Christmas   season is the 1946, James Stewart classic, It's a Wonderful&nbsp; Life. An   aborted suicide, a guardian angel and the transformation of a life in shambles   make for a real tearjerker of a movie. While not specifically a near-death   experience motif, the plot does provide for some interesting thematic   considerations (Migliaccio). In addition, the life review, value change and the   change in attitude toward life are clearly evident. We close out the decade of   the 1940's with a British film entitled Stairway to Heaven &nbsp;(1946) or, as   it is known in the United Kingdom, A Matter of Life or Death. This   romantic fantasy outlines the experiences of a World War II RAF pilot who bails   out of his crippled bomber without a parachute. He mysteriously survives the   ordeal but soon learns that his apparent good luck is the result of a miscue by   the angel of death. Stuck between death and the land of the living, the pilot   suffers a near-death experience during an operation. While undergoing this   experience he envisions a heavenly court convened to rule on whether he should   be permitted to remain alive to wed his American sweetheart or if he should be   sent on to the land of the dead. There are numerous near-death concepts present   in this interesting and thought provoking film, including heavenly transports,   medical reductionism, spirit guides, temporal distention, and the big judge in   the sky (Migliaccio). Additionally, the tunnel, encounters with loved ones, and   feelings of total peace and well being are apparent.

    Interestingly, the decade of the 1950's shows a dearth of near-death related   films. In 1951,&nbsp; The Spirit of St. Louis references the   out-of-body-experience reported by Charles Lindbergh during his transatlantic   flight (Migliaccio). Also in 1951, one of the numerous renditions of the Dickens   classic, A Christmas Carol, was released. Although not specifically   related to the near-death experience, the life review element, the   transformative consequences of the life review and self-judgment are similar to   accounts from modern near-death experiences (Migliaccio). The final example from   the 1950's is the 1956 musical Carousel, which tells the story of a   carnival barker who dies during the commission of a robbery and is permitted to   return to Earth for one day to take care of unfinished business. The light, the   life review, the separation and the changes in values and attitude toward life   are all portrayed.

  While the   1950's showed few examples of near-death related films, the 1960's produced even   less. During the search, only one film during the entire decade was found to   contain the near-death experience motif. This single example, however, is the   epitome of a filmed NDE. Released in 1962, Carnival of Souls begins with   a car containing 3 young women plunging over the side of a bridge into the river   below. Quite sometime after the accident, one of the crash victims is seen   emerging from the water, apparently unhurt. The film follows the seemingly lucky   young woman as she resumes her life only to be haunted by strange visions. She   travels to Utah and is mysteriously drawn to an abandoned carnival. She soon   finds that the carnival is not completely abandoned but populated by the town's   dead. Shortly after her awareness of the true nature of this strange carnival   and her experiences therein, the venue shifts back to the river where the car   crash took place. In the closing scene we see the car being removed from the   river with the body of the young woman still inside! While there were not   specific references to Moody's elements, the plotline clearly is indicative of a   near-death experience.

  The 1970's   began with the made for TV thriller, The Man Who Haunted Himself, a 1970   film which tells of a man whose physical body is seen resting from a car   accident but whose alter-ego escapes to lead a life of moral decay. While this   film is also not specifically based on the near-death experience, it does make   references to some near-death experience elements including the separation and   the life review. In 1978 we find the movie, Resurrection, which,   according to Migliaccio, is the first movie to be specifically based on Moody's   research. In it, a woman briefly experiences the afterlife as the result of a   car accident. She returns to her hometown to recuperate and discovers that she   has a strange power to heal people, evidently a result of her short trip to the   other side (AMG). Nearly all of Moody's elements are evident in this, the first   'modern' movie to reflect the near-death experience as reported by experiencers   (Migliaccio).

  The 1980's   saw an explosion of near-death related movies, such as the 1980 film   Somewhere in Time, which contains an out-of-body scene and makes clear   references of going into the 'light'. Released in 1981, The Devil and Max   Devlin, relates the story of a man who dies in an accident and goes to hell.   There the devil tells him that he may return to Earth if he procures the souls   of three innocent youths for the Devil within two months. The separation, the   encounter and the journey to the otherworld are indicated here. Both Dreams   Come True (1982), in which two teens learn to separate their souls from   their bodies during sleep, and All of Me (1984), in which the soul of a   recently deceased millionairess mistakenly lands in a man's body, are suggestive   of the separation common in near-death reports. The 1983 science fiction   thriller, Brainstorm, is said to directly reference the near-death   experience and devotes a good deal of time to the out-of-body and near-death   phenomena (Migliaccio). The interesting and thought provoking comedy from 1985,  Impure Thoughts, takes place in Purgatory where we find four dead men   reminiscing about growing up in a Catholic school (AMG). The timelessness of the   afterlife, as well as the life review, change in values and attitude toward life   and the encounter with others are vividly displayed here. Also from 1985, The   Quiet Earth, a science fiction thriller from New Zealand, presents the story   of three Kiwi's who are apparently the soul survivors in the world in which a   science experiment has caused all other creatures to vanish into another   dimension. The common link between each of the survivors, and apparently the   reason for their survival, is that each of them suffered a near-death experience   at the very moment the experiment went awry. In the flashbacks of the near-death   experiences nearly all of Moody's elements are apparent.&nbsp; The out-of-body   experience, the encounter with others, the life review, the return to the   physical body, and the changes in values and attitude toward life are all   graphically portrayed in Richard Pryor's 1986 autobiographical drama, JoJo   Dancer, Your Life is Calling, a movie about a man's near-death experience   and its consequences. The 1987 fantasy, Made in Heaven, is a romantic   film about the soul of a dead man who meets the soul of a yet to be born woman   in heaven. The two fall in love but are soon separated when the soul of the   woman is 'born' on earth. The man's soul is permitted to return to Earth to   search for his lost love. A number of Moody's elements are apparent here   including hearing oneself pronounced dead, the separation, the encounter with   others, the light and the boundary. Likewise, a number of elements are   illustrated in the 1988 dark comedy, Dead Heat, in which a dead cop   continues his crimefighting career against resurrected dead criminals by having   himself resurrected by the same machine that brought back the criminals. The   out-of-body experience, ineffability, the feeling of total peace and well being,   the light and corroboration of out-of-body events are included.

  Finally, the   decade of the 1990's follows the lead of the 1940's and 1980's in that it saw a   multitude of films released which contained the near-death experience motif.   This is particularly true of the year 1990, which, like the year 1943, produced   four near death related films. Flatliners is a 1990 science fiction   thriller about five medical students who search for answers about the afterlife   by exploring the near-death phenomena (IMDb). While up to 11 of&nbsp; Moody's 15   elements are identifiable, this movie misrepresents the near-death experience to   such an extent that one near-death researcher has labeled it 'a massive   disappointment' (Migliaccio). Also in 1990, we find two near-death related ghost   stories. In the first, the blockbuster hit Ghost, we have the story of a   man who is killed during an apparent mugging. The man becomes a ghost and learns   that his death was no accident as he returns to Earth to seek justice and   protect his lover. Although off the mark on many of the details, Ghost   does present superb special effects for the out-of-body and near-death   experiences (Migliaccio). The second film, Ghost Dad, relates the story   of Elliot, a man who dies in a car accident but returns to Earth as a ghost. A   scientist, who halts Elliot's passage to the afterlife, urges him to find his   body, which he does. Meanwhile, his daughter also dies in an accident, has an   out-of-body experience and returns to her body. Eventually Elliot does locate   his body and returns to it. There are 9 elements represented here including the   out-of-body experience, ineffability, hearing oneself pronounced dead,   encounters with others, reluctance to tell others, the change in values and   attitude towards life, corroboration of out-of-body events and returning to ones   body. The fourth film from 1990 is Jacob's Ladder, a personal favorite   that relates the experiences of Jacob Singer, a Vietnam veteran who is haunted   by his war experiences and the death of his son. The unexpected ending finds   that Jacob had really died during his wartime service, therefore we are left to   ponder the reality of his subsequent experiences. The tunnel, the meetings with   others, the light, hearing oneself pronounced dead and the life review are all   identifiable in this surrealistic drama.

  The 1991   comedy, Defending Your Life, is the story of an advertising executive who   is killed in a car accident and finds himself in Judgement City. Everyone there   goes on trial to determine whether they move on to the afterlife or return to   their prior life. This movie presents the tunnel, the feeling of peace and well   being, hearing oneself pronounced dead, the light, the life review, the border,   and the changes in values and attitude toward life. In the 1993 psychological   thriller, Fearless a man is involved in a horrific plane crash but,   remarkably, he walks away as one of the few survivors. His efforts to help save   some of the other survivors during the aftermath of the crash lead to him being   hailed as a hero. He develops a 'messianic' complex that causes him to become   alienated from his family (AMG). He begins to work with some of the other   survivors in an effort to help them cope with the tragedy, including a woman who   has lost her two-year-old child in the crash. She reciprocates and helps him   re-establish contact with his family. The light, the feeling of total peace and   well being, and the changes in values and attitude towards life are identifiable   in this movie. Also, specific references are made to the painting, Ascent   into the Empyrean, previously discussed in this chapter. Also from 1993,   Heart and Souls, outlines the experiences of four individuals who are killed   in a bus accident. At the exact moment of their deaths, Thomas is born and the   spirits of the four bus riders are, somehow, entangled with Thomas'   consciousness. In this delightful comedy we find the out-of-body experience, the   feeling of total peace and well being and the changes in values and attitude   towards life. Our final example of near-death related films shows that the motif   can be found in almost any genre. In the 1996 adult film, Cyberella:   Forbidden Passions, the erotic, afterlife encounters of a 'cyber seductress'   are seen fulfilling a variety of intimate dreams (IMDb). The separation,   encounters with others, the tunnel, the light and the border are illustrated   here.

  As is evident   from this investigation, the near-death experience motif can be found in   numerous films throughout the various genres, from children's fantasies to adult   oriented stories. While fairly extensive, this list of examples of films   containing the near-death, or related phenomena, motifs is not intended as an   exhaustive listing of near-death related films. I would think, however, that it   does provide a basis upon which to judge the significance of the phenomena in   the general field of visual arts and in the specific field of cinematography.&nbsp;

  The Near-Death   Experience in Religion

  In this   section I will present the results of a search for the near-death experience   motif in the literature of various Western religions. Specifically, I surveyed   the scriptural and mythical literature of Christianity, Judaism and Islam to   identify instances which appear to report or describe the near-death or related   experiences.

  According to   Noss and Noss, one of the most important functions of religion is to create a   connection between the material, perceptible world which surrounds us and   mysterious,&nbsp; powerful, unseen forces and spirits (3). It would seem natural,   then, that the literature of religion would contain a significant array of   accounts and stories of near-death or related experiences. Indeed, Zaleski   points out that nearly all religious traditions contain stories of people who   return from death with stories of visits to other worlds

  (LWTC, 20).   In particular, the various accounts of prophets, sages and saints in   Christianity, Judaism and Islam contain stories of their journeys to the other   world, voyages through heaven and/or hell and ascension to the seat of divinity   where they receive divine or special knowledge to bring back to the world or a   sanction to prophesize (Zaleski, LWTC, 20). In many cases these ascents bear a   striking resemblance to the accounts of modern near-death experiences (Zaleski,   LWTC, 25).

  The most   widely read book in Western society, on the subject of spirituality and life   after death, is the Christian holy book, the Bible (Moody, LAL, 101).   Stories of return from death seem to abound in the Bible. Rawlings   identifies I Kings 17, as one of these stories (46). In this selection there is   the story of the prophet Elijah and the widow's son. In verses 17-24, the son   becomes ill and dies. The widow, who has been hosting Elijah for several days,   beseeches him as a man of God to intervene on her son's behalf. In verse 21,   Elijah 'stretched himself upon the child three times' and prayed to the Lord to   'let this child's soul come into him again'. In verse 22, the soul of the child   returns to him and he revives. The stretching upon the child could be seen as a   description of a procedure similar to what we now refer to as cardio-pulmonary   resuscitation (Greene, H., 250). Also, the acknowledgement of the departure and   return of the child's soul is reminiscent of some descriptions of the separation   during the near-death experience.

  Likewise, II   Kings 4 recounts the story of the Shummanites son who, in verses 34 and 35, is   revived from death in a similar manner by the prophet Elisha. Elisha himself is   brought back to life in II Kings 13: 20. In the New Testament, Mark 5 relates   the resurrection of Jairus' daughter, in Luke 7: 11-15, we find the son of widow   Nain resurrected and Lazarus is resurrected in John 11: 1-44. All three of these   resurrections were performed by Jesus, the son of God and arguably the most   prominent resurrectant of all (Rawlings, 46).&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;

  At this point   it may be advantageous to differentiate between a resurrection and an   event which may be more appropriately referred to as a resuscitation or  revival. In a resuscitation or revival, the person may be clinically dead   but the body has not suffered the decomposition of cell death, while a   resurrection is the raising up of an individual that has been clearly dead for a   considerable amount of time and has begun to decompose (Greene, H., 246-247).   Keck reiterates this difference and adds the fact that a person who is   resuscitated will die again whereas a resurrected individual becomes immortal   (Keck, 84). This difference would seem to be an important point in the   determination of whether an event is an example of a near-death experience or a   divine intervention, since almost anyone can have or cause resuscitation but   only God can resurrect. The resurrection of Jesus is a foundational fact in the   Christian religion, yet in a 1992 editorial in the Journal of Near Death   Studies, Roger Cook raises some intriguing questions about whether Jesus   actually died or was in a coma when removed from the cross (193-194). Through   presentation of information from the accounts of Jesus' ordeal and known   practices the Romans employed in crucifixions, Cook suggests that Jesus'   apparent return from death was, in fact a resuscitation and that, during the   ordeal, he had gone through all the stages of the near-death experience (Cook,   197).

  Moody, in   Life After Life, reviews Acts 26:13-26, which describes the Apostle Paul's   conversion on the road to Damascus. He notes that Paul's story includes an   encounter with Jesus, an event similar to the encounter with a being of light   and of being blinded by a brilliant light (102-103). Additional references to   the light occur in John 12:35 -36, Isaiah 9:2, and Acts 9 of the Living Bible   (Rawlings 89-90). In 2 Corinthians 12:1-10, of the New English Bible, we find a   story written by the Apostle Paul which relates an experience he had some   fourteen years before. In this story, told in the third person, Paul tells of   visions and revelations he had in the 'third heaven' during an apparent   out-of-body experience (Hunter, 44-45). Apparently this experience was initiated   as a result of a stoning he suffered in the town of Lystra, the account of which   is described in Acts 14:14-20. The third heaven of which Paul spoke, is   synonymous with 'paradise' or the dwelling of God, a place often described by   near-death experiencers (Hunter, 45). In addition, Paul tells of hearing 'words   so secret that human lips cannot repeat them', an expression which correlates   with the ineffability experienced in many near-death experiences (Hunter, 45).

  In   non-scriptural Christian literature, there are also a number of stories which   are reminiscent of modern near-death experiences, especially in the medieval   stories of otherworld journeys of ordinary people (Zaleski, LWTC, 30). In the   last book of the Dialogues of Gregory the Great, a sixth century pope and   spiritual writer, there is the story of a hermit who died and went to hell, was   sent back to mend his ways and, subsequently, spent the rest of his life making   amends, a merchant who is returned to life when it is discovered that his death   was a mistake and a soldier who returns from death with a tale of a 'purgatorial   test bridge' (Zaleski, LWTC, 30). In the eighth century, the Venerable Bede   wrote The Ecclesiastical History of the English People, which contains   the account of a man who revived during the offering of his last rites and tells   a tale of a visit to purgatory. Guided by a luminescent being, this man   journeyed through purgatory and the pit of hell, into a world of intense,   flowery beauty. He returned to life such a changed man that Bede remarks that   the man's transformation was even more remarkable than his return to life (Zaleski,   LWTC, 30-31). Finally, it has been conjectured that St. Catherine of Siena   experienced what could be described as a near-death experience. Upon revival   from an unconsciousness brought on by an unknown malady, St. Catherine remarked,   'If you only knew what I had to give up to come back to you' (Hill, 8). An   apparent reference to the feelings of bliss reported by near-death experiencers.

  In the   Talmud, the Jewish holy book of ancient rabbinic writings, we find at least two   reports of near-death experiences (Neumann, 229-230). The first report, Perashim   50a, tells the story of R. Joseph, son of R. Joshua b. Levi, who became ill and   died. R. Joseph returned to life, however, and told a tale of a visit to a   strange world where all the social status of the inhabitants were reversed from   those that exist in this&nbsp; world. Still, in this strange place, the sages were   esteemed and the martyrs of Lydda were exalted. A review of this account reveals   that R. Joseph recounts a number of Moody's elements including the out-of-body   experience, encounters with spiritual beings or guides, entrance into a mystical   world of intense light and beauty, a vision of knowledge and a panoramic life   review (Neumann, 229-230). The second Talmudic near-death experience, Rosh   Hashanah, 17a, involves the story of R. Huna, the son of R. Joshua, who becomes   so ill that funeral shrouds are prepared for him. He recovers, nevertheless, and   reports that although his death had indeed been decreed, God reversed the decree   and allowed him to return. A review of this story reveals that R. Huna met with   spiritual beings and a supreme 'being of light', made a decision to return to   his body, and experienced the panoramic life review (Neumann, 230). Besides the   obvious correlates of these accounts with modern near-death experiences, it is   particularly interesting that the experiencers in both tales were specifically   asked what they had seen during their deaths, not if they had seen   anything. The suggestion here is that the Talmudic sages were not only aware of,   but expected the near-death experiences of these individuals (Newmann, 230). A   third Talmudic account which could be construed as a near-death experience,   appears in Ta'anit, 25a. Here is the story of R. Elazar ben Pedat, who became   very weak and fell into unconsciousness. Upon his revival, he reported a meeting   with God in which he was given a choice whether to die or live. In this story we   find a meeting with a supreme being of light and the return to the body as a   consequence of a decision by the experiencer (Neumann, 230). Although these are   the only full fledged near-death experiences identifiable in the Talmud,   Neumann points out a number of other passages which seem to refer to specific   near-death elements, including autoscopy (Shabbat, 152b), encounters with   spiritual beings (Ketubot, 104a), the life review (Ta'anit, 11a), and the sense   of overwhelming peace and well-being (Ketuvot, 103b) (237-249). In addition, the   Zohar (1956, II:126b; 173, V:186; 1989, p. 846), and (1956, I: 218b-219a; 1973,   II: 309-310; 1989, p. 857), seems to make reference to the idyllic world   (Neumann, 237-241).

  In Zoharic   literature compiled according to tradition in the second century, there appears   the story of R. Cruspedai (Neumann, 231) R. Cruspedai became ill and apparently   died, only to revive a short while later with a story of a voyage to another   world. Up to seven near-death elements can be seen in this story, including the   separation, meetings with loved ones, the idyllic world, the being of light, the   feeling of peace and well-being, the panoramic life review and the return to the   body (Neumann, 231). Similarly, up to five near-death elements are manifested in   the Zoharic account of R. Jose of Pike'in, including the separation, spiritual   guides, the idyllic world, the being of light, and the return to the body&nbsp;   (Neumann, 231). In this story, R. Jose tells of how his son's cries at his death   persuaded the Heavenly Academy to successfully petition God to grant him an   additional 22 years of life to teach the Torah to his son. Finally, in 1978 Y.   Klapholtz produced an extensive anthology of rabbinic and Hassidic stories   entitled Tales of the Heavenly Court, which has been found to contain at   least 14 separate accounts which have been identified as near-death experiences   (Neumann, 232-233). Finally, Bretherton postulates the concept that the most   familiar and popular Psalm (Psalm 23), the Shepherd Psalm, may actually be a   near-death experience in the form of the recollection of an unknown Psalmist who   returned to life following a postmortem visit to Paradise (110-115).

  &nbsp;In my review   of the Qu'ran, the Islamic holy book, I could not identify any narratives which   specifically related to near-death experience accounts. There were, however, a   number of Suras that seem to suggest the near-death experience or its elements.   Specifically in Suras 73-75, we find 'Thus Allah does plan to preserve alive   those considered dead and show you his Signs that you may understand'. Suras   43-45 state 'Allah takes charge of souls at the time of death, and of those not   yet dead during sleep. Then He raises those in respect of which He has decreed   death, and sends back the others for an appointed term'. Additionally, Sura 123   seems to make reference to the light when it says 'Can he who was as dead and We   gave him life and appointed for him a light whereby he walks among people, be   like one who is, as it were, in utter darkness'. And, despite this dearth of   scriptural narratives, Islam still contains the near-death motif in much of its   non scriptural literature and myths (Zaleski, OWJ, 23). The miraculous transport   of the prophet Muhammad from Mecca to Jerusalem, and his subsequent ascension to   visit the seven heavens, is seen as an otherworld journey akin to the modern   near-death experience (Zaleski, OWJ, 23). The mi'raj stories, issued in response   to a challenge to Muhammad's right to prophesize, show his being greeted by   various forerunners at each of the heavenly gates and his ascension and   acceptance by God at the divine throne, clearly reminiscent of accounts from   near-death experiencers (Zaleski, OWJ, 23) .

  It seems fairly clear from this review that the   near-death experience is a phenomenon which can be seen, in certain ways, as an   integral part of the religious traditions of Christianity, Judaism and Islam.   Yet some of the most vociferous skepticism against the near-death experience, in   Western culture, has emanated from the religious community. This skepticism   seems to be particularly strong in the Christian community where the near-death   experience is seen as contradictory to many accepted scriptural tenets (Greene,   H., 297-298). Yet, as Hill points out, it may not be that the near-death   experience necessarily contradicts scriptural doctrine as much as it may be that   those doctrines have not been correctly interpreted (28).    &nbsp;   Conclusion

  Throughout   this paper I have attempted to show the significance of the near-death   experience in Western cultural traditions by identifying works in the areas of   literature, art, film and religion which contain the near-death experience as a   major motif. Although the list of examples identified herein is quite   substantial, the space constraints of a paper like this prevents the   presentation of all identified examples. Still, those that are presented seem to   show that the near-death experience motif has been a part of the literary,   artistic and religious foundations of Western cultural traditions since early   antiquity. The significant and wide-ranging influence of the near-death   experience on these traditions is evidenced by the presence of the motif   throughout the various genres within each. The examples listed here include some   of the most revered classics of Western civilization. At least one researcher   has suggested that the root of some of these great works may be the result of&nbsp;   'NDE-type insights' experienced by recognized creative geniuses like Dickens,   Wilder and Dante (Flynn, 6). While most of the works listed would not be   considered classics, the influence of the NDE phenomenon within them is   unmistakable. The presence of recent artistic and literary creations, as well as   the publication of new research papers on the identification of the motif in   existing literary, artistic and religious works, attests to the continuation of   this influence.&nbsp; Nowhere is this influence manifested more prominently then in   the cinematic tradition. While the existence of the NDE in film waned following   the initial surge of the 1930's and 40's, it seems to have regained its momentum   in the 1980's and this surge has continued in the 90's.

  To conclude,   the historical longevity and recent proliferation of the NDE motif throughout   the identified works seems to support my contention that the near-death   experience phenomenon has been, and continues to be, a significant factor in   Western cultural traditions, despite the reticence of the various disciplines to   acknowledge its existence.

  &nbsp;    Works Cited

    Abanes, Richard. Journey into the Light: Exploring Near-Death Experience.&nbsp;   Grand Rapids: Baker, 1996.

  Always .   Dir. Steven Spielberg. Universal, 1989.

  All of Me .   Dir. Carl Reiner. Paramount, 1984.

    AMG. All- Movie Guide. An Online Film and Video Database, Matrix&nbsp; Software,&nbsp;   1991- 98.

    Anderson, Kenneth. The Edge of Paradise. Nashville: Thomas Nelson, 1995.

  Angel on my   Shoulder .   Dir. Archie Mayo. United Artist, 1946.

    Angelico, Fra. The Last Judgement. 1430, Convent of San Marco, Florence.

    Aries, Philippe. Images of Man and Death. Trans. Janet Lloyd. Cambridge:&nbsp;   Harvard UP, 1980.

    Aspiz, Harold. Walt Whitman and the Body Beautiful. Urbana:&nbsp; U of   Illinois P, 1980.

    Atwater, P.M.H.. Beyond the Light: What isn't being said about the near-death  &nbsp;experience. New York: Birch Lane, 1996.

    Auerbach, Erich. Dante: Poet of the Secular World. Trans. Ralph Manheim.&nbsp;   Chicago:&nbsp; Uof Chicago P, 1961.

    Barrie, J. M..&nbsp; Peter Pan.&nbsp; Montreal:&nbsp; Tundra, 1988.

  Between Two   Worlds .   Dir. Edward Blatt. Warner, 1944.

    Bible, The King James Version. in Life After Life by Raymond Moody. New&nbsp;   York: Bantam, 1975: 101-104.

    Bible, The Living. in Beyond Death's Door by Maurice Rawlings. New York:&nbsp;   Bantam, 1978.

    Bible, The New English. in 'The Apostle Paul and the Near-Death Experience'&nbsp; by   Edward Hunter. The Christian Parapsychologist, 7(2) (1987): 44-46.

    Bierce, Ambrose. 'An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge' in The Collected &nbsp;Writings   of Ambrose Bierce. Secaucus:&nbsp; Citadel, 1991.

    Blake, William. The Soul Hovering Above the Body. c. 1800-1850.   Bibliotheque des Arts&nbsp; Decoratifs, Paris.

  Blue Bird .   Dirs. Walter Lang &amp; Darryl F. Zunack. 20th Century Fox, 1940.

    Bosch, Hieronymous.&nbsp; The Ascent into the Empyrean (also known as 'Ascent   of the

    Blessed') c. 1500.&nbsp; Palace of the Doges, Paris.

    - - -&nbsp; Hell (inner-right wing of The Last Judgement triptych). c.   1500. Akademie der&nbsp; Bildenden Kunste, Vienna.

  Brainstorm .   Dir. Douglas Trumbull, MGM, 1983.

    Bretherton, Donald. 'The Shepherd Psalm as a Near-Death Experience'.&nbsp;   Christian Parapsychologist, 9, (1991):&nbsp; 110 - 117.

  Cabin in the   Sky .&nbsp;   Dir. Vincente Minelli. MGM, 1943.

    Carey, Peter. Bliss. New York: Harper, 1981.

  Carnival of   Souls .&nbsp;   Dir. Herk Harvey. Herts-Lion Productions, 1962.

  Carousel .   Dir. Henry King. 20th Century Fox, 1956.

    Carroll, Lewis. The Annotated Alice. Ed. M. Gardner. New York:&nbsp; World,   1960.

    Cather, Willa. 'Neighbor Rosicky' in Obscure Destinies. New York: Knopf,   1932.

  Christmas   Carol, A .&nbsp;   Dir. Brian Desmond Hurst. Renown, 1951.

    Cook, Roger. 'The Resurrection as a Near-Death Experience'. Journal of &nbsp;Near-Death   Studies, 10(4), (Summer 1992): 193-204.&nbsp;

    Couliano, I.P.. Out of this World: Otherwordly Journeys from Gilgamesh to   Albert Einstein.

    Boston: Shambala, 1991.

    Cusmano, Joseph. E-mail to author. July 7, 1997.

  Cybererella:&nbsp;   Forbidden Passion .   Dir. Jackie Garth. Section 8, 1996.

    Dante Alighieri. 'The Divine Comedy' in Otherworld Journeys: Accounts of   &nbsp;Near-Death Experiences in Medieval and Modern Times by Carol Zaleski.&nbsp;   New York: Oxford UP, 1987.

  Dead Heat .&nbsp;   Dir. Mark Goldblatt. New World, 1988.

  Death Takes a   Holiday .&nbsp;   Dir. Mitchell Leisen. Paramount, 1934.

  Defending Your   Life .&nbsp;   Dir. Albert Brooks. Warner, 1991.

  Devil and Max   Devlin, The .&nbsp;   Dir. Steven Stern. Walt Disney, 1981.

    Dickinson, Emily.&nbsp; 'Just Lost When I Was Saved'. in The Wisdom of the &nbsp;Serpent:   The Myths of Death, Rebirth and Resurrection. New York:&nbsp; Braziller, 1963.&nbsp;

    Dore, Gustave. Vision of the Empyrean. 1868, illustration to The   Divine Comedy&nbsp; by Dante Alighieri. in Dante: Poet of the Secular World   by Erich&nbsp; Auerbach. Chicago: U of Chicago P, 1961: 142.

  Dreams Come   True .&nbsp;   Dir. Max Kalmanowicz. Troma, 1982.

  Fantasia .&nbsp;   Dir. James Algar. Buena Vista, 1940.

  Fearless .&nbsp;   Dir. Peter Weir. Warner, 1993.

  Flatliners .&nbsp;   Dir. Joel Schumacher. Columbia, 1990.

  Flight That   Disappeared, The .&nbsp;   Dir. Reginald LeBorg. United Artist, 1961.

    Flynn, Charles. 'Death and the Primacy of Love in Works of Dickens, Hugo&nbsp; and   Wilder'.&nbsp; Anabiosis - The Journal for Near-Death Studies, 4(2),&nbsp; (Fall   1984):&nbsp; 125-141.

    Flynn, Charles. 'Dante and the NDE'.&nbsp; Vital Signs (the newsletter of the&nbsp;   International Association for Near-Death Studies), 2(2), (1982):&nbsp; 6.

    Franklin, Benjamin.&nbsp; MacMillan Dictionary of Quotations. New York:&nbsp;   MacMillan, 1987, 1989.

  Ghost .&nbsp;   Dir. Jerry Zucker. Paramount, 1990.

    Gregory The Great. 'Dialogues' in Otherworld Journeys: Accounts of &nbsp;Near-Death   Experiences in Medieval and Modern Times. by&nbsp; Carol Zaleski. New York:   Oxford UP, 1987.

    Greene, F.G.. 'Motifs of Passage into Worlds Imaginary and Fantastic'.&nbsp;   Journal of Near-Death Studies, 10(4), (Summer 1992):&nbsp; 205-231.

    - - -.&nbsp; 'Homer's Odysseus as an Ecstatic Voyager'.&nbsp; Journal of Near-Death   &nbsp;Studies, 14(4), (Summer 1996):&nbsp; 225-250.

    Greene, H.L.. If I Should Wake Before I Die: The Medical and Biblical Truth  &nbsp;About Near-Death Experiences.&nbsp; Wheaton:&nbsp; Crossway, 1997.

    Grof, Stanislaw and Christina Grof.&nbsp; Beyond Death: The Gates of Consciousness.&nbsp;   London:&nbsp; Thames and Hudson, 1980.

    Gunn, Susan.&nbsp; 'Pearl: Medieval Dream Vision and Modern Near-Death&nbsp;   Experiences'.&nbsp; The Journal of Religion and Psychical Research, 18,&nbsp;   (1995):&nbsp; 132-140.

  Guy Named Joe .&nbsp;   Dir. Victor Fleming. MGM, 1943.

    Hearn, M.&nbsp; Introduction to J.M. Barrie's 'Peter and Wendy' in Peter Pan   by&nbsp; J. M. Barrie. Montreal:&nbsp; Tundra, 1988.

  Heart and   Souls .&nbsp;   Dir. Ron Underwood. Universal, 1993.

  Heaven Can   Wait .&nbsp;   Dir. Ernst Lubitsch. 20th Century Fox, 1943.

  Heaven Can   Wait .&nbsp;   Dir. Warren Beatty and Buck Henry. Paramount, 1978.

    Hemingway, Ernest. A Farewell to Arms.&nbsp; New York:&nbsp; Scribner's, 1957.

    - - -.&nbsp; 'The Snows of Kilimanjaro' in The Short Stories of Ernest Hemingway.&nbsp;   New York:&nbsp; Scribner's, 1953.

    Henderson, Joseph and Maud Oakes. The Wisdom of the Serpent: The Myths of   &nbsp;Death, Rebirth and Resurrection. New York: Braziller, 1963.

  Here Comes Mr.   Jordan .&nbsp;   Dir. Alexander Hall. Columbia, 1947.

    Hill, Brennan.&nbsp; The Near-Death Experience: A Christian Approach.&nbsp;   Dubuque:&nbsp; Wm. C. Brown, 1981.

    Homer.&nbsp; The Odyssey of Homer: A Modern Translation.&nbsp; Trans. E.V. Rieu.&nbsp;   New York:&nbsp; Harper, 1967.

    Hughes, Robert.&nbsp; Heaven and Hell in Western Art.&nbsp; New York:&nbsp; Stein and   Day,&nbsp; 1968.

    Hunter, Edward.&nbsp; 'The Apostle Paul and the Near-Death Experience'. The &nbsp;Christian   Parapsychologist, 7(2), (1987):&nbsp; 44-46.

    IMDb.&nbsp; The Internet Movie Database. 1990-98.

  Impure   Thoughts .&nbsp;   Dir. Michael A. Simpson.&nbsp; Charter Entertainment, 1985.

  It's a   Wonderful Life .&nbsp;   Dir. Frank Capra.&nbsp; RKO, 1946.

  Jacob's Ladder .&nbsp;   Dir. Adrian Lyne. Carolco, 1990.

  JoJo Dancer,   Your Life is Calling .&nbsp;   Dir. Richard Pryor.&nbsp; Columbia, 1986.

    Kellehear, Allan.&nbsp; 'Death and Renewal in the Velveteen Rabbit: A Sociological

    &nbsp;&nbsp; Reading'. Journal of Near-Death Studies, 12(1) (Fall 1993):

    Klaphotz, Y.&nbsp; Tales of the Heavenly Court. Ed. S. Weinbach.&nbsp; Bene Brak,   Israel:

    &nbsp;&nbsp; Peer Hasafer, 1978.

    Lewis, C.S..&nbsp; The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe. New York:&nbsp; MacMillan,&nbsp;   1951.

    Littleton, Mark.&nbsp; Death Trip.&nbsp; Chicago:&nbsp; Moody, 1992.

    MacGregor, Geddes. Images of Afterlife Beliefs from Antiquity to Modern Times.   New York:&nbsp;&nbsp;

    &nbsp;&nbsp; Paragon House, 1992.

  Made in Heaven .&nbsp;   Dir. Alan Rudolph.&nbsp; Lorimar, 1987.

  Man Who   Haunted Himself, The .&nbsp;   Dir. Basil Deardon.&nbsp; Excalibur, 1970.

    Migliaccio, John. 'The Silence of the Lens: Death and Transformation in the&nbsp;   Movies'. IANDS Convention, July 1991.

    Moody, Raymond.&nbsp; The Light Beyond.&nbsp; New York:&nbsp; Bantam, 1988.

    - - -.&nbsp; Life After Life.&nbsp; New York:&nbsp; Bantam, 1975.

    - - -.&nbsp; Reflections on Life After Life.&nbsp; St. Simons Island:&nbsp; Mockingbird,   1977.

    Neumann, Jonathan.&nbsp; Near-Death Experiences in Judaic Literature'. Journal of  &nbsp;Psychology and Judaism, 14(4), (Winter 1990):&nbsp; 225-253.

    Nicholl, Grier.&nbsp; 'The Life Review in Five Short Stories About Characters Facing&nbsp;   Death', Omega, 15, (1984).

    Noss, David and John Noss.&nbsp; A History of the World's Religions. New   York:&nbsp; MacMillan, 1994.

    Olsen, T.&nbsp; Tell Me a Riddle.&nbsp; New York:&nbsp; Lippincott, 1960.

  Outward Bound .&nbsp;   Dir. Robert Milton.&nbsp; Warner, 1930.

    Peck, M. Scott.&nbsp; In Heaven as on Earth.&nbsp; New York:&nbsp; Hyperion, 1996.

    Plato.&nbsp; The Republic of Plato.&nbsp; Trans. A.D. Lindsay.&nbsp; New York:&nbsp; E.P.   Dutton,&nbsp; 1957.

    Poe, Edgar Allan.&nbsp; ' A Descent into the Maelstrom' in Great Tales and Poems&nbsp;  of Edgar Allan Poe.&nbsp; New York:&nbsp; Washington Square, 1940.

    Porter, Katherine Anne.&nbsp; 'The Jilting of Granny Weatherall' in The Collected  &nbsp;Works of Katherine Anne Porter.&nbsp; New York:&nbsp; Harcourt, 1965.

    - - -.&nbsp; Pale Horse, Pale Rider.&nbsp; New York:&nbsp; Harcourt, 1936.

  Quiet Earth,   The .&nbsp;   Dir. Geoff Murphy.&nbsp; Skouras, 1985.

    Qu'ran, The.&nbsp; Trans. Muhammad Zafrulla Khan. New York:&nbsp; Olive Branch, 1997

    Rawlings, M. Beyond Death's Door.&nbsp; New York:&nbsp; Bantam, 1978.

  Resurrection .&nbsp;   Dir. Daniel Petrie.&nbsp; Universal, 1980.

    Ring, Kenneth.&nbsp; Heading Toward Omega: In Search of the Meaning of the

    &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Near-Death Experience.&nbsp; New York:&nbsp; Wm. Morrow, 1984.

    Sabom, Michael.&nbsp; Recollections of Death:&nbsp; A Medical Investigation.&nbsp; New   York:

    &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Harper, 1982.

  Somewhere in   Time .&nbsp;   Dir. Jeannot Szware.&nbsp; Universal, 1980.

  Spirit of St.   Louis .&nbsp;   Dir. Billy Wilder.&nbsp; Warner, 1957.

  Stairway to   Heaven .&nbsp;   Dirs. Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger. J. Arthur&nbsp; Rank, 1946.

    Straight, Steve.&nbsp; 'A Wave Among Waves:&nbsp; Katherine Anne Porter's Near-Death

    &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Experience'.&nbsp; Anabiosis - The Journal for Near-Death Studies, 4   (1984):

    &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 107-123.

    St. Vincent Millay, Edna.&nbsp; Renascence.&nbsp; New York:&nbsp; Harper, 1917.

    Swift, Jonathan.&nbsp; Gulliver's Travels:&nbsp; An Annotated Text with Critical Essays.

    &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Ed. R. Greenberg.&nbsp; New York:&nbsp; Norton, 1961.

    Talmud, The. in 'Near-Death Experiences in Judaic Literature' by Jonathan

    &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Neumann. Journal of Psychology and Judaism, 14(4), (Winter 1990):

    &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 225-253.

    Tolstoy, Leo.&nbsp; The Death of Ivan Ilyich and Other Stories.&nbsp; New York:&nbsp;   New

    &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; American Library, 1960.

    Traini, Francesco.&nbsp; The Triumph of Death. c. 1300. Camposanto, Pisa.

    Turner, Alice.&nbsp; The History of Hell.&nbsp; New York:&nbsp; Harcourt, 1993.

    Virgil.&nbsp; The Aeneid.&nbsp; Baltimore:&nbsp; Penguin, 1956.

    Walker, Barbara and William J. Serdahely.&nbsp; 'Historical Perspectives on Near-&nbsp;   Death Phenomena'.&nbsp; Journal of Near-Death Studies, 9(2), (Winter 1990):&nbsp;   91-104.

    Whitman, Walt.&nbsp; 'Song of Myself' in Leaves of Grass.&nbsp; New York:&nbsp; Viking,   1959.

    Wilder, Thornton.&nbsp; Our Town.&nbsp; New York:&nbsp; Coward McCann, 1938.

    Williams, Margery.&nbsp; The Velveteen Rabbit, or how toys become real.&nbsp; New   York: Doubleday, 1922.

  Wizard of Oz .&nbsp;   Dirs. Victor Fleming, King Vidor and George Cukor. MGM, 1939.

    Zaleski, Carol G.&nbsp; Otherworld Journeys: Accounts of Near-Death Experiences in   Medieval and Modern Times.&nbsp; New York:&nbsp; Oxford UP, 1987.

    - &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;       - -.&nbsp; The Life of the World to Come:&nbsp; Near-Death Experience and Christian   Hope. New

    York:&nbsp; Oxford: UP, 1996.

    Zohar. in 'Near-Death Experiences in Judaic Literature' by Jonathan Neumann.   Journal of Psychology and Judaism, 14(4), (Winter 1990):&nbsp; 225-253.     </body>  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/NDERF/Articles/Pew's%20NDE%20Thesis.htm