{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/NDERF\/Articles\/brainworship.htm","mytitle":"Brain Worship by Thomas J. Spitzer","mylang":"de"}
          	Brain Worship by Thomas J. Spitzer                     	            		

Consciousness    
  Home Page  Current NDEs  Share NDE</span>     	</tr>

  		          Religion of Brain Worship Vs. Science as to an Explanation of Consciousness

  By  Thomas J.   Spitzer

The Religion of Brain Worship

The tenants of the religion summarized.

Though no individual brain   cell has ever been measured to be conscious, think, feel, &nbsp;   intend or Love Brain Worshipers   take it as a matter of faith that a conglomeration of such cells produces all of   the above thereby creating the individual and “mind”.

Though no empirical measurement of consciousness has   ever been done Brain worshipers take it as a matter of faith that the brain is   generating consciousness.

Brain worshipers believe the brain can take electrical   vibrations and translate them into subjective seeing and hearing.

The high priests of Brain Worship keep secret   mathematical transforms that relate electrical activity or PET activity in the   brain to consciousness.

The Brain Worshipers have faith that an unconscious   and mechanistic universe created consciousness.

The Brain Worshipers believe that billions of   individual brains produce billions of individualized consciousness in millions   of species.

&nbsp; The   high priests of Brain Worship understand secret parameters that would allow each

&nbsp;   consciousness to be recognized as   being individualized.

The high priests of Brain   Worship can explain how each individualized consciousness came to occur at a   specific co-ordinate in space time. &nbsp;   In other words though there were   billions of other body pairs producing babies before I was born they can explain   why my consciousness is paired with my body vs a body that showed up previously   or after my birth date.

The governing premise of Brain   Worship is order comes out of randomness. &nbsp;   The high priests can explain why   I’m randomly created here and cannot randomly be created “exist” somewhere else   simultaneously.

The high priests can explain why we can only exist   once throughout the entire infinity of time. Why the forces that create us   suddenly stop working after we die.

Though it’s obvious we can only know what is in the   Mind the priests assure us there actually is a physical universe out there.

The high priests of Brain Worship can look at a bunch   of cells in my brain and verify that the tune to “Lets Go Fly a Kite” is   embedded there. Without asking me of course.

The high priests of Brain   Worship say that because stimulating the brain can produce “hallucinations” that   that proves the brain is doing it all. &nbsp;   Though consciousness has to exist   in order to perceive these hallucinations in the first place.

Brain worshipers believe that   since millions of verifiable perceptions have occurred while &nbsp;   persons have claimed to be out of   body that an invisible brain pops out of the head and does the perceiving during   these events.

Brain worshipers believe even though metabolic   processes are shutting down during trauma the brain still manages to produce a   higher level of consciousness then ever occurs during healthy operation.

Brain worshipers believe even though metabolic   processes are shutting down during trauma the brain produces rapturous feelings   of unconditional Love. Something that never happens in a healthy brain.

Brain worshipers have secret knowledge that explains   why during an NDE everyone feels connected to everyone and everything else.

Brain worshipers always claim   to be critical thinkers and have science on their side even though they have no   mathematics, or empirical data to support their claims. &nbsp;   They claim to use Occam’s razor as   to simplest &nbsp;   explanations yet everything they   say is convoluted and can’t explain observable phenomenon.

&nbsp;

Science

Experiments in Quantum physics have proved that   consciousness is necessary to collapse the wave function at both the Quantum and   macro levels.

There is no such thing as time.

We can only know about what is   in Consciousness and not any actual Universe - out there. &nbsp;   The body and brain are within   Consciousness.

Consciousness is a field effect, the Zero Point field,   not a point source effect.

Since consciousness is a field effect, the One   consciousness expresses in all forms.

Despite appearances of separation and isolation each   life form has the same consciousness.

The questions of specific birth at a specific time is   irrelevant since the same consciousness shows up in all cases.

The question of billions of individualized   consciousness being generated is irrelevant since all consciousness is one and   the same.

Consciousness is what sees or hears not the brain.

Any type of perception including “hallucinations”,   visions, or dreams are realities in other dimensions that consciousness is   tuning into.

During NDE consciousness disengages from the illusion   of brain allowing more perfect perception.

During NDE the illusion of separation is gone and   consciousness knows itself as being everywhere, everything, and everywhen.

Since only consciousness can know anything then   consciousness must know everything.

Since consciousness is the basis of all form it must   be eternal.

That which knows everything and is eternal is known as   God.

Since we are consciousness we are eternal and one with   God.

Since unconditional Love is what consciousness   experiences during NDE then we are unconditional Love.    Occam’s razor     </body>  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/NDERF/Articles/brainworship.htm