{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/NDERF\/Articles\/unconditional_love.htm","mytitle":"NDE","mylang":"de"}
          	NDE                  	            		

  		From Retaliation To Unconditional Love: 
  		   		  				The Grand Narrative of Human Exodus
  		by Wendell Krossa (www.wendellkrossa.com)  </b></font></span>   
  Home Page  Current NDEs  Share NDE</span>     	</tr>

    (Foreword-        this essay is   the outcome of several decades of interaction with Bob Brinsmead, and notably,   material of his such as The Scandal of Joshua Ben Adam.)

  The   foundational story of humanity is the story of liberation from our animal past.   This is not just the narrative of our exodus out of Africa but more so it is our   exodus out of animal existence toward a more human or humane existence. Our   exodus toward a more human mode of living is the engine that drives humanity’s   overall trajectory of progress toward a better future. This story reveals the   meaning and purpose of human existence in our endeavor to humanize all life. It   is a story that responds to those profound human questions of why we exist or   what we are here for. It explains the millennia long struggle of people to   discover what it means to be human and to live as human.

  (Some have   reacted to this assertion of human origins in an animal past so I have offered   some further explanation in Appendices 3 at the end)

  Let me break   this story into some basic elements or themes. It begins in an animal past   shaped by the drives of domination (alpha male/female), small band exclusion,   and retaliation. This dark past provides the context against which the wonder of   becoming human shines all the brighter as it emerges gradually over time.

  Joseph   Campbell (Myths To Live By) has similarly expressed this theme of leaving the   animal for human existence in arguing that human story is about learning to   conquer the animal in order to live as human. This struggle to overcome our   animal past and its base features is engaged on the individual level as well as   by humanity as a whole. He also framed human story as going out, confronting and   conquering monsters, learning lessons, and then returning with insights to   benefit others.

  The element of   struggle to overcome in this story arises from the fact that the animal past   continues into our human existence in the form of a residual animal brain with   its animal-like impulses that continue to influence our emotions, responses, and   behavior. We see this in the fact that people continue to act like animals-   excluding one another, dominating others, or retaliating against others. And   these base animal features are even embedded in our belief systems where we try   to maintain and validate them to the detriment of our efforts to be more human.

  Retaliation,   in particular, is the one notable feature that brings the worst of animal   existence into human life. Musonius Rufus (Roman philosopher, circa 30-100 AD)   expressed the animal nature of retaliation well, “For to scheme to bite back the   biter and to return evil for evil is the act not of a human being but of a wild   beast”   (http://unsafeharbour.wordpress.com/2012/03/31/ancient-quotations-returning-evil-with-good/).   Retaliation is humanity behaving at its worst. Establishing retaliation as a   feature of our animal past helps expose its bestial nature, its inhumanity.

  One of the more serious mistakes that early people made was   to project this destructive feature of animal existence onto early views of   gods. They created the perception in the earliest gods of a greater reality that   was threatening, malicious, and punitive. Something that would retaliate against   human failure or sin. In doing this they created new super monsters for people   to fear. Something that would get you. Over time this perception of retaliation   in divinity was refined further with legal categories as something that would   exact harsh justice, punish evil, or engage in just retribution. &nbsp;   This would later be developed into systems of human   justice as payback, or what we know as eye for eye justice. So retaliation makes   a line down through history to become the legal entity of justice as punishment.

  Other   refinements were created over history to reinforce the idea of divine   retaliation such as the development of the idea of holiness in gods. In fact,   this would become the prominent feature of the Jewish and Christian God. It   would be argued that because God was holy he was therefore obligated to punish   sin. Holiness became part of a complex of ideas that supported the demand for   payback or punishment, including ideas such as human sinfulness which offended a   holy God. As religious believers would subsequently argue, because God is holy   he cannot ignore sin. He cannot just forgive it without first punishing. But   despite sacralising retaliation in divinity with such concepts as holiness, at   core it was still very much about animal-like retaliation, revenge, or payback.

  The concept of   holiness itself is about purity, exclusion, and separation from things   considered unclean or defiled. It is a priestly invention supporting the demand   of priests to mediate between impure people and their gods. Holiness creates a   sharp contrast with human imperfection, an imperfection that then appears all   the worse, as something that religious people call sinfulness. Human sinfulness   has always been a perverse concept that views humanity as something that must be   punished, something that deserves retaliation. It has always promoted guilt,   shame, and fear over being imperfectly human.

  We would do   better to view human imperfection in terms of the fact that we started out in   animal reality but have gradually become something that has improved markedly   over time (see for instance, Stephen Pinker’s The Better Angels of Our Nature,   or James Payne’s The History of Force). This gradual process of growth,   development, and advancement over history is not something that deserves   condemnation and punishment.

  A further   validation for the view that the gods were retaliatory was the early perception   that because the gods were behind the forces of nature, and as those forces were   often destructive, early logic then concluded that the gods must be angry and   engaged in punishing people for their sins via the destructive forces and events   of nature.

  This theme of   retaliation is found in the earliest human writing (circa 2500-2000 BCE), in the   accounts of storm gods and other gods threatening to annihilate early people   with a great flood (e.g. Sumerian Flood myth- Wikipedia). It is evident in other   early myths of a chaos monster threatening the order of creation (Cosmos, Chaos,   and the World to Come, Norman Cohn). These myths were eventually developed into   the grand myth of a final apocalypse, that a retributive God would destroy and   purge all life in a grand world-ending punishment (e.g. Zoroaster). This feature   of retaliation would then reach an epitome expression in the perverse myth of   eternal Hell, the final and ultimate retaliation against imperfect humanity.

  Another   related idea concocted by the ancients was that any sickness or misfortune in a   person’s life was understood to be due to the gods punishing sin or broken   taboos. This is found all through early mythology in accounts of gods afflicting   people with sickness (e.g. Epic of Gilgamesh). This idea has caused immense   additional guilt and fear to people already suffering physical problems. Look   also at the Old Testament account of Job’s ‘comforters’ beating him with this   theme- that his misfortune and illness was punishment from God because he had   sinned.

  In all such   mythology retaliation was being sacralised, made something sacred or divine. It   was being made a core feature of deity. In doing this early people were creating   monsters above ordinary monsters to frighten one another.

  This central   theme of retaliation or payback lodged in gods has then validated endless   violence between people, clans, and nations. A retaliating God will inspire   retaliation among his followers. Part of the reason for this is that people have   always appealed to the divine to validate their own lives. People try to   replicate in their own lives and societies what they believe to be the divine   model or reality. So the creation of threatening, punishing gods has long   validated people retaliating and punishing one another. Therefore, if you want   to get to an important root validation for violence among people, then start   with these core beliefs that have long supported retaliation or payback (see   James Carrol’s book Constantine’s Sword for historical illustration of the   influence of religious views inspiring mistreatment of others).

  When you embed   retaliation in the sacred or divinity it becomes untouchable, a sacred ideal not   open to challenge or questioning. The things that we protect in God we are   notably afraid to challenge because of our natural respect or fear of deity.   These things are then immensely damaging to us because we believe them to be   from God and therefore ultimately true and immutable. They must be believed and   adhered to. Such appeal to the divine has always been a powerful concept and a   potent means to manipulate and control others.

  But exposing   the primitive origins of a feature such as retaliation we may help to break its   grip on human consciousness.

    The Salvation/Sacrifice Industry  (the Appeasement Industry)

  What has been   the most damaging outcome of projecting the animal feature of retaliation onto   God? It evokes in people the natural response of appeasement or placation. The   human fear of death plays a central role here. This is the felt need to appease   the angry, threatening gods/God in order to avoid punishment, whether sickness,   other misfortune, or death. Retaliatory gods have long aroused human fear of   death. The appeasement response then leads to one of history’s most oppressive   outcomes- the enslavement to wasteful systems of sacrifice and other salvation   schemes.

  Myths of a God   angry at human failure have also produced the corollary idea of separation from   God, a separation that supposedly happened at the time of the Fall when humans   lived in an original paradise called Eden. God has apparently abandoned   humanity, breaking off a former close relationship, according to religions like   Christianity. If you think abandonment by parents is traumatizing then add this   myth of abandonment by a Creator and Source of all, and note the impact this can   have on human psyches. These perceptions further intensify the fear of divinity   and death, and stir the felt need to atone.

  And so the   natural psychology of appeasement is stirred and this leads to endeavors toward   some salvation plan, to offer some sacrifice to placate the angered deity.

  It is not   clear when all this Salvationism started but it was long ago in prehistory. Some   innovative person, probably an early shaman, came up with the idea of blood   sacrifice to placate threatening gods. This may have been based on the   perception that because life was in the blood then a life could be offered in   place of another life. Researchers studying the origin of sacrifice suggest that   sacrifices were made for varied reasons- to secure favor from the gods, to feed   the gods- but a prominent reason was to appease the gods, to atone for sin (see   for instance,        http://www.istor.org/stable/3155070 notably p.605 ,   or        http://www.biblicalarchaeology.org/daily/ancient-cultures/ancient-israel/ritual-sacrifice-in-ancient-israel/    , also see Sacrifice at Wikipedia). I am focusing on this element of appeasement   of angry gods because it arises at the very beginning and it has had such a   damaging impact on human psyches and societies.

  No matter what   the ancient reasons were for sacrifice, “It is all inhumane and sadistic and   stupid” (Bob Brinsmead, personal email, Feb.2013). “As for suggesting that God   loved the smell of a burning animal as the OT says...then this god has not yet   been humanized” (Ibid). But here we have it today- Salvationism which argues   that some payment must be made; we must pay the debt, pay for the offense, and   make amends. A cruel, violent blood sacrifice must be offered. And again, the   belief in sin is integral to this perspective. Human imperfection was developed   into the mythical belief in human fallenness or sinfulness as a means to explain   why the gods were angry and wanted to retaliate against humanity. This was   further developed into the theological logic that human sinfulness was an   offense against a holy God and atonement must be made.

  &nbsp; And   the earliest sins were beyond silly which revealed the petty nature of the gods   that early people had created. The earliest epics of punishing people’s sin told   of gods that were upset because people had multiplied too much and become too   noisy. One god- Enlil- could not sleep with all the noise so he planned to   annihilate all people via a great flood   (http://history-world.org/sumerian_and_akkadian_myths.htm). The gods hated human   self-expression, freedom and curiosity for knowledge in the bibilical Adam’s   case.

  But because of human sinfulness atonement had to be made. &nbsp;   So the massive burdensome salvation industry has   continued all through human history, feeding off of human fear and misery. And   it maintains a priesthood that lives well off this human misery, employing these   myths to manipulate and control people. Priests claim that the great cosmic   separation of humanity from the divine must be healed, the broken relationship   must be restored and only they know how to mediate this atonement and   restoration. But there is not a shred of evidence anywhere in history that any   such abandonment ever occurred except in the minds of power-seeking shamans and   priests. It is all a massive system of human enslavement and of the worst kind-   mental, emotional, and spiritual slavery.

  The entire   industry continues to reinforce in consciousness this perverse idea of something   threatening and punitive that must be appeased. It is an industry that has   resulted in an incalculable waste of human time, resources, and creative   potential. You see this as people under fear and felt obligation everywhere   trudge off to temples and churches with their offerings, engaging often esoteric   religious ritual, believing that if they don’t then they will suffer some   misfortune. They are wasting time and resources that could be better spent   developing themselves in other more beneficial ways. This waste was evident in a   documentary I watched recently on the Quechua Indians of South America spending   their scarce resources on offerings made to saints. Entire days are spent in   such activity.

  I also saw it firsthand among the Manobo tribes of   Mindanao. People offering scarce chickens and pigs to placate angry spirits   instead of seeking proper medical help. And when those resources were gone then   often there was nothing left for a trip to a lowland hospital to save life.   &nbsp;

  All of this   salvation/sacrifice activity is done to solve a non-existent problem, a mythical   problem that does not exist and has never existed- the felt need to appease some   angry reality that will punish.

  These   primitive ideas of a threatening and retaliatory super monster stick around and   continue to cause damage even today. They persist because they resonate with   deeply imprinted beliefs and emotions such as the feeling that we somehow   deserve punishment because we have screwed up. Today, similar in emphasis to the   earliest mythology, it is claimed that GAIA (or the planet) is angry because   people have again multiplied too much and have become too creative, expressive,   and successful in technological society (see, for instance,      http://www.green-agenda.com/gaia.html    and note the reference to Lovelock’s book The Revenge of GAIA; see also        http://reason.com/archives/2010/04/21/sinners-in-the-hands-of-an-ang    ; and        http://thinkprogress.org/climate/2008/06/17/202790/lessons-from-an-angry-planet/?mobile=nc &nbsp;   noting this comment, “the tornados and floods   battering the country (US) with almost unimaginable severity are the early   tantrums of an angry planet”). People trying to better their lives have now been   condemned for engaging the sin of greed and thereby destroying nature. We then   see the appeasement response in people feeling obligated to obstruct and halt   human economic development and growth (make a sacrifice) in order to placate the   angry GAIA or angry planet. Just as in the ancient past, this sacrificial   obstruction of human progress is done out of the felt need to appease some   angered and punitive reality. Unfortunately, many people advocating these views   and considering themselves modern secularists still hold to the core themes of   primitive mythology at its worst.

  Let me   summarize this appeasement/salvation issue again as it has significantly   undermined human freedom. It is a pattern that is repeated endlessly through   history. Someone first scares people with some threatening scenario (imminent   apocalypse, punishment from the gods, global warming destroying life). This   touches the most basic thing in human psychology- the fear of disaster and death   (see Ernst Becker’s Denial of Death). The fear-mongers then propose a salvation   scheme such as some sacrifice (e.g. in our time, cut back energy use) in order   to placate the angry and threatening monster that has been presented to people.   And scared people will then support the looniest and most damaging salvation   schemes and willingly give up their freedom in order to find relief from   whatever has scared them. Stirring fear in such a manner is a direct assault on   human freedom.

    Non-retaliation or Unconditional Emerges

  Among the   earliest human writing in Sumeria (2500-2000 BCE) we see another line of insight   that was entirely opposite to the theme of retaliation or payback. In those   early minds shaped by animal-like features, with their monstrous threatening and   punishing gods, the wonder of human consciousness was making a significant new   advance. With their maturing human consciousness and its human impulses those   people were struggling against their past and discovering in new ways what it   meant to be human and to live as human. They were becoming more aware of   themselves as human persons and were experiencing new human emotions that pushed   them to seek liberation from debasing animal drives and perceptions. That was a   new surge in the grand narrative of humanity learning to conquer the animal in   order to live as human.

  People were   awakening more to the inhumanity of retaliation response or payback and how that   reduced the wonder of being human to pettiness with its promotion of cycles of   endless violence and death. They were becoming aware of new human ideals and   human ways of responding and relating to one another. They realized that they   did not have to retaliate and destroy one another. They were feeling and   experiencing compassion, mercy, and kindness. And that developing sense of   humane response led to such new practices as forgiveness which was a supremely   human response that broke cycles of revenge and violence. It was a radically new   insight and discovery that challenged the dominant culture of animal-like   retaliation.

  That was a   unique new phase in the liberation of humanity from an enslaving animal past   with its destructive drives. There is no worse enslavement than to the drives to   retaliate and punish or destroy others. These drives have darkened human minds   with hate and revenge all through history. They have ruined relationships,   communities, and disrupted human progress significantly. Look, for example, at   the destruction to national infrastructure from war. That has set entire nations   back for decades.

  Finding freedom from these animal drives is the exodus out   from animal existence toward a truly human existence. It is the grandest   liberation movement that humanity has ever conceived. It is the real exodus to a   promised land.  &nbsp; The   potential offered by unconditional relating to others, is the potential for   liberation to an entirely new and higher plane of human existence. This new   human mode of relating argues that no matter how badly people treat us we can   pull human life toward something higher and better by treating them more   humanely in return.

    Non-retaliation is one element of what is more generally known as unconditional   love. This refers to the practice of endless forgiveness without first demanding   that requirements be met or amends be made. It refers to the expression of   unlimited generosity expressed toward those who are undeserving. And it refers   to the unconditional inclusion of all persons whether classified as good or bad.   Unconditional clarifies in a striking new way the real meaning of all human   ideals and practices. It opens up as never before the true meaning of the   supreme human ideal of love.

  This new human   response of unconditional treatment of others also gets to the very core of   human meaning and purpose. It answers all those great questions such as why   something, why this universe exists, and what is the point of conscious human   existence. It is simply the greatest insight in all history as to what it really   means to be human. In the developing awareness of unconditional treatment of   others, people were getting to the very essence of being human.

  The new   response of non-retaliation also proved critical to such things as the   development and growth of commerce. People chose not to destroy one another but   to cooperate in trade and that lifted societies toward a better life (e.g. Paul   Seabright, In the Company of Strangers). This was known as “the moralizing   influence of gentle commerce”. Other good in human society flowed from this.   Non-retaliation became central to human success and progress.

  This emerging   response of non-retaliation is the future for humanity to explore. It is at the   core of what it means to be truly human, and at the core of the ongoing endeavor   to humanize all of life. It liberates people to entirely new heights of being   human. It offers a fundamental solution to the major problem plaguing human   existence- the cycles of violence and war. It gets to the very root of the worst   of human afflictions.

    The Origins of Non-retaliation

  We find one of the earliest statements of this maturing   consciousness of what it means to be human in an early bit of Akkadian   literature- the Advice of an Akkadian Father to his son (circa 2000 BCE). &nbsp;   He says, “Do not return evil to your adversary;   requite with kindness the one who does evil to you, maintain justice for your   enemy, be friendly to your enemy”   (http://www.fordham.edu/halsall/ancient/2200akkad-father.asp).

  A similar   insight emerged around 1500-1300 BCE in the Egyptian Instructions of Anii. This   states, “Conquer malice in yourself...Do not speak rudely to a brawler...When   you are attacked, hold yourself back...when your relations are friendly... the   aggressor will desist...” and so on   (http://www.perankhgroup.com/ani_wisdom.htm).

    The Notable Hebrew Breakthroughs

  This same   insight then emerges in other traditions across the world. For example, the   Hebrew prophets began to advocate an entirely new view of justice not as   punishment (retaliation, revenge) but as liberation of the oppressed and mercy   toward all. Bob Brinsmead says that in Latin/Western thinking, justice became   associated with penalty, price, punishment, atonement, or payback. His study of   the OT word for justice- sadak- found that it meant, instead, fidelity to a   relationship and had a restorative meaning related to liberation and mercy   (personal email, Feb.9/13).

  The Hebrew   prophets also began to offer an entirely new view of divinity that was not   interested in sacrifice or payback atonement. They claimed that God did not want   sacrifice but mercy (e.g. Hosea 6:6, Micah 6:7-8, Amos 5:21-24). There are other   statments noted by Brinsmead: “You do not delight in sacrifice, or I would bring   it; you do not take pleasure in burnt offerings. The sacrifices of God are a   broken spirit; a broken and contrite heart...” (Psalm 51: 11-17). “When I   brought your forefathers out of Egypt and spoke to them, I did not give them   commands about burnt offerings and sacrifices” (Jeremiah 7:21, 22). “I take no   pleasure in the blood of bulls and lambs and goats” (Isaiah 1:11). Brinsmead   concludes, “So Paul’s message about the propitiation of God’s wrath by the blood   sacrifice of Jesus as a payment for human sin is not the fulfillment of the   message of the Old Testament prophets, but completely contrary to it” (personal   email, Feb.18/2013).

  In these   striking new claims the Old Testament prophets were confronting and challenging   the greatest monster ever created in history- the threatening, retaliatory God;   the punishing God. They were stating clearly that past perceptions of deity were   all wrong. Now if the story of humanity is about conquering monsters, as   Campbell suggests, then a retaliating, punishing God is the biggest monster of   all for people to conquer and overcome. Human perceptions of ultimate reality   are the most powerful influences on human outlooks.

  The Egyptians   were also making somewhat similar discoveries regarding humanizing deity in   attributing kindness and mercy to their pharaoh gods: “at the high period of the   Pyramid age a new comparatively humane, benevolent, fatherly quality began to be   apparent in the character and behavior of the pharaohs...even the gods had   become kind” (Joseph Campbell, Oriental Mythology, p.95). This is how the   process of humanizing gods works. People discover new more humane features about   themselves and then begin to attribute these to their concepts of deity. They   perceive ultimate reality in terms of how they perceive authentic humanity. An   understanding of divinity begins with humanity (Campbell, Myths to Live By,   p.93, 243-249).

  Brinsmead also argues that the Hebrew prophets said   absolutely nothing about the Jewish Day of Atonement. &nbsp;   The justice that they advocated for was freedom from   all oppression, to break every yoke, and to let the oppressed go free. It was   the Israelite priesthood that promoted the sacrificial system and Salvationism   with its bondage to mediators that oppressed people with this dark theology of   looming punishment and the demand to atone. The prophets, to the contrary, were   offering an entirely new view of deity as unconditionally forgiving and loving.

  It is   difficult to state how radical a break this was with past views of gods as   threatening, punitive monsters seeking retribution against imperfect and   fallible people. That had been the overwhelmingly dominant perspective through   previous history (retaliatory, punishing gods had always terrified people. A   reviewer in The American Journal of Theology, vol.13, No.4, Oct. 1909, p.605,   The Origin of Sacrifice, states regarding a book titled ‘Semitic Magic, Its   Origins and Development’ by R. Campbell Thompson, “The author appears to   maintain that religious institutions have been molded by belief in evil spirits   rather than by faith in good divinities. He directly asserts it of the rite   which he calls atoning sacrifice”. He continues, noting the central religious   belief that sickness was caused by sin; it was the result of people breaking   taboos which offended the gods who then punished those people, hence, the need   for atoning sacrifice to appease).

  But instead of   payback punishment people were beginning to discover this new human ideal of   non-retaliation or unconditional response toward others. As noted earlier, this   new human response included the following elements: Unconditional inclusion of   all people as intimate family (no more outsiders or enemies), unconditional   forgiveness of all offenses or wrongs, and unconditional generosity toward all.   Non-retaliation or unconditional response means absolutely no conditions in our   relationships with others; no pre-requisites are to be demanded, and no payment   exacted for failures or mistakes. As dictionaries define the word unconditional:   not subject to any conditions, absolutely no conditions.

  Other   traditions offered similar insights on the new non-retaliatory response. In   Buddhist literature we find the following statements: “Hatreds never cease   through hatred in this world: through non-hatred alone they cease...Overcome the   angry by non-anger; overcome the wicked by goodness; overcome the miser by   generosity; overcome the liar by truth...Let us live happily, not hating those   who hate us. Let us therefore overcome anger by kindness, evil by good,   falsehood by truth...Nor for this matter shall we give vent to evil words, but   we shall remain full of concern and pity, with a mind of love, and we shall not   give in to hatred...” (Dhammapada 3-5, 223-234, 197, Majjhima Nikaya 129,   written about 250 BCE, though dating to the time of the Buddha around 500 BCE,   see for instance such sources as http://www.unification.net/ws/theme144.htm)).

  Confucius   taught his followers to propose justice and not revenge or anger (Analects   14.36, ca. 450-250 BCE). The Taoists advocated being kind to the unkind (Tao Te   Ching 49, 300 BCE). In Jainism it was said, “Man should subvert anger by   forgiveness, subdue pride by modesty, overcome hypocrisy with simplicity”   (Samanasuttam 136). Hindus taught that a superior person “does not render evil   for evil...but will ever exercise compassion even towards those who enjoy   injuring others or those of cruel deeds” (Ramaya, Yuddha Kanda 115, around   500-400 BCE). Socrates (470-400 BCE) urged, “We ought not to retaliate or render   evil to anyone, whatever evil we may have suffered from him”. And so on.

  Interestingly,   Hinduism began when the people of North India, around the time of the Buddha   (roughly 500 BCE), grew disillusioned with the sacrificial system that they   viewed as wasteful and cruel (Karen Armstrong, Buddha, p.23). They no longer   believed that salvation was through animal blood sacrifice and began to seek   answers in a new tradition that focused on human potential (p.25). As people   continued to understand more humane ways of responding and relating they   rejected sacrifice, payback, and appeasement thinking and practices.

  The Hindus   also rejected the priestly elites, according to Armstrong. They believed that   they could discover God for themselves without a system of sacrifice and   mediating priesthood (p.26).

    The Historical Jesus Tradition

  This ongoing   liberation movement from animal retaliation or payback broke through to a new   level of coherence and clarity in the teaching of the historical Jesus who is   entirely different from the Christian Jesus. I refer readers to the research of   the Jesus Seminar for some basic principles on how to detect what the historical   person actually taught in contrast to the statements of the New Testament   gospels which present all sorts of contradictory teaching that they claim came   from Jesus. For instance, in Matthew 5 Jesus is presented as teaching that we   are to love our enemies. Then a few chapters later (Matt.11) we find him damning   people to hell for not agreeing with his message. This is an irreconcilable   contradiction in teaching and must be rejected as not authentic to the   historical person who clearly taught love of enemies. Unfortunately, blind   devotion to the sacred prohibits people from seeing such contradictions in their   holy books.

  Using Jesus   Seminar principles of interpretation, nothing in Jesus’ teaching comprises a   more consistent core set of ideas than this theme of unconditional treatment of   others. This is the new kingdom of God that Jesus spoke about; the new mode of   truly human existence.

  The historical   Jesus presented the wonder of unconditional thinking and existence in a set of   core sayings and stories. For instance, in Matthew 5:38 he set a context first   by summing up the old payback view of justice as “eye for eye” response. This   sums up past views of retaliatory or retributive response- reward for good,   punishment for wrong. Tit for tat. Getting even in relation to a strict standard   of payback.

  He then   countered that old view entirely in arguing that we should not retaliate against   offenders, we should not respond in kind or in like manner, returning evil for   evil. If we are mistreated or offended we should respond instead with   over-the-top goodness, kindness, and generosity. We should not engage in the old   payback response of only loving friends and hating enemies, but we should love   enemies also. There is nothing authentically human in just loving those who love   us. Even animals do that. Genuine human response goes further and loves enemies   also. It is absolutely unconditional in its treatment of all people.

  If we do this-   not retaliating, not engaging in payback response- then Jesus says we will be   like God who is good and generous to all alike. Take a minute and let the   radical, history-overturning nature of this comment sink in. God, according to   Jesus, gives good things (sun and rain) to both good and evil. God does not   engage in the old payback response of eye for eye treatment of people (rewarding   only the good and punishing the evil). God does not exclude the bad. God has no   favorites, and there are no insiders/outsiders with God. There is no threat and   no punishment with a God that is Unconditional Love. Like the Hebrew prophets   before him, Jesus was presenting a stunning, entirely new view of deity that   countered the previous historical understanding of gods as threatening, punitive   entities. This was a major shift or turnaround in human perspective.

  This statement   of Jesus- if you do this you will be like God- also plays on the ancient impulse   in people to replicate in their lives and societies what they believe to be the   divine model; to fulfill in their lives what they believe to be the divine   purpose for their lives.

  There are   other statements by the historical Jesus that affirm there is only unconditional   goodness behind life and not threat or punitive reality. Note, for instance, his   statements that God clothes the grass and feeds the worthless birds that no one   pays any attention to. Limitless generosity shown to all life alike, no matter   how insignificant.

  Researchers   argue that some of the other accounts in the gospels did not originate with the   historical Jesus. But whoever recounted them, they are of the same tenor as the   core teaching of Jesus on non-retaliatory response toward others. For instance,   there is the story of the man born blind in John 9. The writer contradicts   conventional perspectives by stating that this sickness was not a punishment for   sin. As noted earlier, primitive thought understood that any sickness or   deformity was a punishment from the gods for sin. This belief has caused endless   misery to unfortunate people afflicted by disease and deformity. It adds extra   guilt and shame to already unbearable suffering. It is one of the cruelest   perceptions ever concocted- that a punishing deity gets even with human failure   by sending sickness and misfortune. Again, this belief promotes a sense of   sinfulness and obligation to appease or atone, to submit to salvation/sacrifice   schemes and mediating priesthoods. It is oppressive slavery and wasteful to   boot. But there is no punitive reality that demands appeasement. Jesus made this   very clear. He took on the ancient perception of a threatening punishing reality   behind life and denied that any such monster existed. He taught the very   opposite, and this was considered blasphemy by his contemporaries.

  We find this   same core theme of unconditional treatment of others in Jesus’ short stories or   parables. He spoke, for instance, of a prodigal or wasteful son (Luke 15) who   was welcomed home by his father and forgiven and treated generously by the   father who refused the son’s offer of repentance or atonement. The father just   wanted to celebrate without any requirement to make amends or demand payback   first for the wrong done by the son. It is important to note that these stories   also include others who represent conventional payback attitudes. These other   characters express the resistant attitude of many good people toward this   radical new teaching on unconditional response toward all people. Note in this   regard that the older brother in the prodigal parable is indignant that the   father is too generous and unconditional toward the wasteful son. He believes in   conventional justice where good is rewarded and wrong is punished. He represents   most good, moral religious people who demand that justice be upheld and   fulfilled. There should be some form of retaliation, some form of exact response   according to the deed done, whether good or bad. But the generous,   unconditionally forgiving father would have none of it. He believes in justice   as liberation, and scandalous generosity toward all, whether good or bad. This   is the new human response, completely unconditional toward all persons no matter   what they have done. The older brother shows the harsh and petty nature of   payback thinking and response. His sense of good morality and justice is   offended but his morality is in reality the pettiness and cruelty of primitive   payback thinking. It is more animal-like than truly human. And this story shows   how deeply ingrained such thinking is in many people. Unconditional generosity   and mercy offends good moral people seeking conventional justice.

  The story of   the vineyard owner and workers makes a similar point (Matthew 20). At the end of   the day all the workers are given the same payment regardless of hours worked.   The workers who started at the beginning of the day are not cheated. They   received the wages that they agreed to. But the late starters who get there at   the end of the day, for whatever reason, also have families to feed. And the   owner gives them the same as the early starters who then find such generosity   offensive and complain to the owner. The owner is not acting according to   conventional views of just treatment of people. He is too generous and   unconditional, according to the early starters. And his generosity really pisses   them off. They live by conventional fairness as strict reward or punishment   according to actions done. They are good, moral people with a strong sense of   justice as payback. They do not get this new unconditional treatment of   undeserving people.

  The story of   the Good Samaritan (Luke 10) also speaks to unconditional treatment of others.   The Samaritan assists a wounded enemy, showing no sense of exclusion or payback   but only concern for his welfare as a fellow member of the human family.

  In this new   body of teaching by the historical Jesus we are seeing millennia of primitive   thought being completely overturned. Jesus is arguing for an entirely new type   of authentic human response. And he states very clearly that, contrary to past   historical teaching on divinity, this is what God is actually like. Let me state   his teaching as plainly as possible in theological terms. God is not threatening   or punitive. God does not retaliate against human failure or wrongdoing. God   does not punish anyone. God does not engage payback response toward anyone. Most   previous human perspective on Ultimate Reality was wrong, according to the   historical Jesus.

  This is such   an entirely new understanding of Deity or God that it is hard for us to get the   full impact that his teaching had on the people of his day. The greatest monster   in history- the threatening, punishing God- was being confronted directly and   overthrown. That monster was being conquered and decapitated. The great payback   God of religion, the biggest bogeyman ever created with all the added features   to terrify- holiness, wrath, judgment, hell, blood sacrifice to appease- this   was all being discounted entirely as false and thrown out as unworthy of truly   human thinking and existence.

  God was being   revealed as unconditional love. At the very core of reality, the creating and   sustaining Consciousness was being presented as unconditional goodness,   generosity, and mercy. The implications of this were stunning. It meant the end   and abolishment of all sacrifice and all salvation thinking and practice, and   the consequence of this is the end of all priest-craft and religion. It lifted a   great burden off of humanity with all the associated guilt, shame, despair, and   fear that has always accompanied ideas of human sinfulness and myths of gods   punishing that sin.

  Follow the   obvious conclusions for yourself. Since the beginning most religion and   Salvationism had been built on the inhuman myths of a punishing, retaliating   God. That monster, according to Jesus, did not and had never existed. So all the   subsequent salvation theology and practice was a response to a problem that   never existed in the first place- meeting atonement conditions to placate angry   gods in order to be forgiven. God had never been angry with people for their   animal beginnings and their imperfection and their gradual historical   development toward something more human. And God had never abandoned humanity at   some mythical fall in a past paradise. There had never been any separation that   needed to be healed or restored. God had never threatened to punish anyone. It’s   all bad myth to scare people, and shaman/priests had from the very beginning   used this mythology to manipulate and dominate populations by fear (see John   Pfeiffer’s Explosion: An Inquiry Into the Origins of Art and Religion on the   origin of religion as an institution to terrorize and control people).

  So we need to   radically revise our perceptions of deity or ultimate reality. The ultimate   reality behind all was revealed by Jesus as unconditional love. That had always   been the true nature and character of God. And now simply stated, because there   is no threatening, punitive God, then there is no need for salvation or any form   of sacrifice. This means the end and abolition of religion.

    Christianity Reverts To Payback Conditions

  The followers   of Jesus, with a stunning lack of insight, dismissed his core theme of   unconditional and instead reverted back to the old payback thinking of past   religious belief. And they thus created the payback theology and system called   Christianity. In the development of Christianity the historical battle between   retaliation and non-retaliation reached a new climax of profound contrast and   opposition. In direct contradiction to Jesus’ teaching, Christianity was   developed as a religion of supreme conditions. Christianity then became   history’s grandest embodiment of punishment, threat, payback, or retaliation. In   this regard it has been like all religion which makes divine forgiveness and   love conditional. But none moreso than Christianity which created a theology of   the greatest condition ever conceived- that of the need for an infinite payment.   Previous religions had insisted on some sort of sacrifice to appease offended   gods, including human and even child sacrifice. But Christianity took this   thinking to new heights by arguing that as the sin of humanity was an infinite   offense against an infinitely holy God so the payment must be equally infinite.   According to Brinsmead, church theologians then created the theology of not just   human sacrifice but of the sacrifice of a God-man (a member of the Godhead or   Trinity). Only an infinitely valuable sacrifice could meet the infinite demand   for making amends to an infinitely offended Deity. This took conditional payback   thinking to new unheard of heights.

  Christianity   came down decidedly against the new liberation that Jesus was trying to promote,   the liberation into unconditional living or the new kingdom of God as truly   human relating and existence. Christianity retreated, instead, into the old   enslavement to retaliation thinking and existence. So the historical struggle   between retaliation and non-retaliation came to a unique climax in the   Jesus/Christianity contradiction. In the historical Jesus we found a new summit   reached in the understanding and expression of what truly human existence could   be- unconditional response and relating. His message clearly established an   existence of no conditions, no requirements to be met in order to receive full   forgiveness, unconditional inclusion, and unlimited generosity.

  In pronounced   contrast, with Christianity we got a system of supreme condition, a return to   the old God of anger and punishment. Unfortunately for Western societies,   Christian payback thinking has reinforced the felt need for payback in society   as well. Note in this regard the Christian support for the death penalty in the   US, and more imprisonment for offenders, even non-violent ones.

  How did this   happen? How did Christianity get it all so wrong? Because the man whose thinking   and theology became Christianity- the apostle Paul- did not pay any attention to   what Jesus actually said or taught. Paul ignored entirely the unconditional   teaching of Jesus and created instead a new theology about Jesus that was shaped   through and through by the primitive payback perspective. Paul got Jesus   backwards, upside down, and absolutely opposite from what he actually taught.

  Paul and the   other followers of Jesus were just like the older brother in the Prodigal   parable. With their strong sense of morality and justice as full payback they   could not just ignore wrong with free forgiveness. No. It first had to be   punished. Amends had to be made. Debt had to be paid as a prerequisite   condition. Holiness demanded all these conditions be met.

  Paul argued   that humanity had wilfully fallen from original perfection and that all people   had become sinful and all deserved punishment and damnation. So a great payment   had to be made to atone for what was believed to be wilful human sinfulness. A   sacrifice of a God-man was necessary to placate an offended God that intended to   enact retribution on all humanity.

  Note some   summaries of the retaliation theme in Paul’s letters, starting with his central   book on Christian belief or doctrine, Romans: “The wrath of God is being   revealed from heaven against all the godlessness and wickedness of men   (Rom.1:18)...you are storing up wrath against yourself for the day of wrath,   when his righteous judgment will be revealed. God will give to each person   according to what he has done....to those who are self-seeking and who reject   the truth and follow evil, there will be wrath and anger. There will be trouble   and distress” (2:5-8)...

  He then   presents the solution to avoid this damnation from an angry God, “the redemption   that came by Jesus Christ. God presented him as a sacrifice of atonement,   through faith in his blood” (3:25). The condition for escaping the wrath of God   is faith in the blood sacrifice of Jesus. This condition for escaping wrath is   repeated elsewhere throughout Romans. “If you confess with your mouth...and   believe in your heart...you will be saved” (10:9).

  Other passages   affirm this payback theology, “God is just: he will pay back trouble to those   who trouble you...He will punish those who do not know God and do not obey the   gospel...They will be punished with everlasting destruction and shut out from   the presence of the Lord” (2Thessalonians 1:7-9).

  The book of   Hebrews continues this theme of retaliation and the condition of atonement by   blood sacrifice. “Every violation and disobedience received its just   punishment...” (2:2). For those who do not believe, “I declared on oath in my   anger, they shall never enter my rest..” (3:11). “It is mine to avenge. I will   repay” (10:30). The condition to avoid this anger, “He sacrificed for their   sins...when he offered himself...” (7:27).

  This theme of   blood sacrifice to appease a threatening God continues throughout the New   Testament and reaches a terrorizing culmination in the book of Revelation. After   noting again the condition of violent, bloody sacrifice to appease angry deity   (“He has freed us from our sins by his blood”, 1:5) the writer of Revelation   then threatens those who refuse this blood sacrifice with an endless roasting on   the big barbie down under. And he means the “lake of fire”, forever (20:11-15).   Ultimate and eternal payback, punishment, or retaliation.

  So where Jesus   had taught that no payment needed to be made before forgiveness was offered,   Paul and other New Testament writers claimed that all debt must be paid in full   before God would forgive. Paul denied completely what Jesus had taught. He went   against Jesus’ message entirely. He missed the most humanizing insight in all   history, the discovery of the greatest human ideal ever conceived. He then   successfully aborted the grandest human liberation movement of all; one that   Jesus sought to take even further, to new heights of humane relating and   existence. And yet, confoundingly, Christianity claims to be the religion of   Jesus. Well, where then is Jesus’ central message of unconditional treatment of   others? Christianity opted instead for the message of Paul about supreme   conditions.

  It has been   established that Paul was a domineering man who tolerated no opposition and   jealously fought to have his theology established as the only true Christian   theology (see Charles Freeman’s The Closing of the Western Mind, p.109-114).   James Tabor (Paul and Jesus) has summed this up well in stating that Paul wrote   most of the New Testament and other books support his viewpoint (e.g. Acts).   Christianity is therefore Paul’s Christianity. Paul’s view of Jesus is the one   that the world received. And there is nothing of true unconditional in Paul or   his Christianity.

  Yet the   diamond of unconditional teaching is still here and there in the New Testament   even though it has been almost buried by the dunghill of payback myth and   theology of the New Testament.

    Deity Meeting A Lower Standard

  Christians   today facilely use the term unconditional love to describe their God and what   they believe they are obligated to fulfill in their lives. But this is an   oxymoronic and irreconcilable mixing of entirely opposite things. Consequently,   they come up with some fantastical and contorted explanations when presenting   what they call God’s unconditional love through the sacrifice of Jesus,   seemingly unaware of the contradictory nature of what they are doing (see for   example,      http://www.biblicaltheology.com/rom/rom_12_13.html    noting the comment, “because love without hypocrisy loves as God loves:   unconditionally... By so doing we leave the judgment and vengeance entirely up   to the Lord”; also        http://www.commontruth.com/UnconditionalLove.html .   Others just give up entirely on unconditional-        http://withchrist.org/unconditional.htm    or      http://preservedwords.com/uncond-pv.htm    ). The Christian mixing profoundly distorts the term unconditional to describe   the ultimate condition ever conceived by religious minds.

  And yes,   admittedly, they are at least embracing and wrestling with this theme of   unconditional. They sense the spirit of this ideal in what Jesus taught but they   present it thus- we must forgive unconditionally just as Jesus taught, so we   must then let God repay as payback is a divine responsibility. In this manner   they are trying to maintain both unconditional, which cannot be denied in Jesus’   teaching, and yet also maintain the old payback views in their overall theology   which is the supporting background of their belief system (God will exact   revenge). This is an irreconcilable and profound contradiction but it is the   best that they can come up with given the starkly opposing realities they are   trying to hold in tension. This contradictory Christian mish-mash is the result   of holding a felt obligation to the immutable sacred that they have inherited (a   holy God that must punish sin) and then trying to read the unconditional Jesus   through this payback lens. The outcome is that it only confuses the humane ideal   that Jesus was advocating. The larger payback context that they are maintaining   distorts the actual meaning of unconditional.

  So when   pressed on this issue of genuine unconditional response Christian believers will   argue that God cannot just forgive sin. God is holy, they claim, and must first   punish all sin before he can forgive. God demands that any debt be first paid in   full before he will forgive or include anyone. A sacrifice must first be made   before mercy can be shown (in direct contradiction to the Jewish prophet’s   claims that God wanted no sacrifice but only mercy). Consequently, unconditional   (absolutely no conditions) is distorted beyond recognition.

  In response,   we need to challenge that theology by asking a simple question- why cannot God   just forgive as Jesus taught and be merciful and generous without first   demanding payment? We are urged to act like this with no pre-conditions being   met first. We are told to just forgive others for their offenses. Why is the God   of Christianity held to a lower standard of behavior than we are? Is not God   supposed to be something better, something more humane than we are? Why then are   we held to a higher standard of human response and relating than God is? As   Brinsmead says, a God who demands full payment before he forgives is a God who   knows nothing of genuine forgiveness. Where the debt is paid in full, then no   forgiveness is required.

  And what about   the teaching in such places as 1 Corinthians 13? It states that authentic love   keeps no record of wrongs. And is not God love? Why then such contradiction by   claiming that God must keep record of all wrongs and punish all sin? The entire   salvation and sacrifice industry is built on noting faults and demanding   atonement for them. Again, if ordinary people are held to a new humane standard   of unconditional love then it is valid to ask why a supposedly supremely humane   God is not held to the same standard? Edward Schillebeeckx has correctly stated,   “God is more human (more humane) than any human being” (The Praxis of the Reign   of God, Mary Hilkert, p.56). Why then these silly myths of a God maintaining a   lower standard of distinctly inhumane behavior? God is either Unconditional Love   (absolutely no conditions), or not. If not, then you cannot define that   conditional reality with the term unconditional.

    Watch The Context

  Payback thinking missed entirely the real meaning of ideals   such as forgiveness. As noted above, when you try to embed human ideals in a   payback context (e.g. unconditional love in a Christian theological context) you   distort the real meaning of these human ideals. They are no longer authentically   unconditional. &nbsp;    This is the problem with all religion which is conditional.   Note in this regard that many religious believers have tried to humanize their   gods over history, recognizing that the barbaric gods of the past are too   primitive for modern minds. So they have added new more humane features to their   gods such as love and mercy. But they also feel obligated to maintain the old   features that have to do with retaliation and punishment. For instance, as noted   before, they claim that holiness demands punishment. Forgiveness and love are   dependent on first making some payment or sacrifice. Forgiveness is then   rendered meaningless. When human ideals are couched in a payback context they   are then rendered something entirely different from the unconditional that   should define them.

  Ignoring the   core theme of Jesus, Christianity has continued to sacralise archaic payback   thinking. And the Christian God has become an even more intense version of this   perspective, with his infinite qualities such as infinite holiness demanding   infinite payment. The Christian God has become an even greater retaliating   monster than other early payback deities. And Hell in Christian theology has   become the ultimate statement or expression of the hateful, inhuman response of   retaliation toward human imperfection. All to scare people into the vast   salvation/sacrifice industry that saps human time and resources, and hinders   human progress.

  The sum of the   matter is that Christianity got Jesus all wrong and it got God all wrong. God is   indeed unconditional love just as Jesus taught. And unconditional love to   incomprehensible levels beyond all human imagination. There is no threat, no   condemnation or judgment, no punishment, no conditions to meet for acceptance,   absolutely nothing to fear in a God that is love. Let me state it as plainly as   possible. Every human being is fully and equally included; all are fully   forgiven, and all receive the full generosity of God. All are safe no matter   what they believe or don’t believe. There is no threatening monster behind life   to fear or dread. There is only Unconditional Love at the very core of all   reality and life. There are no conditions to meet to be included in the love and   generosity of this Ultimate Reality. No one has ever been separated in any   manner from this Unconditional Love.

  And while you   are conquering this monster-the old punishing God- set your sight also on   bringing down the second greatest monster of all, death. Over human history   death has been made an even worse terror to people because it has been defined   and explained in terms of religious belief and myth. Shaman and priests have   long told people that death was a punishment from God for sin, and more   punishment would follow after death. Cheer up, they said, the worst is yet to   come. This intensifies normal fear of death. Death then becomes a terrifying   monster for humanity to face and resolve. I know a lady who was reduced to   despair and crying when a relative of hers died, refusing to “accept Jesus” and   “be saved”. The lady believed that her relative had gone to hell. That cruel   nonsense adds further psychic misery to already unacceptable human suffering.   The realization that there is only unconditional love at the heart of all   reality dispels the enslaving fear of death or life after death. Unconditional   does indeed take the sting out of death. Death can then be seen as the toothless   monster that it really is. We should not hesitate to laugh in the face of such a   grotesquely exaggerated monster.

  Unconditional   is liberation like nothing else in all history, and especially liberating is   this realization that there is no threatening, punishing reality behind life.   This gets to the deepest roots of long held human fears, anxieties, concerns,   despair, and depression. In this regard, unconditional is utterly limitless in   its liberating potential for human minds. It goes to the root of darkness in   human consciousness, darkness long promoted by religion and its myth of coming   payback and the need to appease.

  Unconditional   love at the very core of all reality breaks the grip of religious fear by   overturning all past perceptions of some looming retaliation, punishment or need   to placate with sacrifice. Real liberation is not just social but more   essentially liberation of mind, thought, perception, feeling, and spirit. We can   be physically free but still enslaved to the worst ideas held from a primitive   past. Unconditional thinking therefore takes freedom to the very heart of what   really enslaves humanity and this positively impacts human creative potential in   profound ways. It liberates mind and emotions and spirit from a long history of   guilt and shame over being imperfectly human, and still gradually developing   toward something better and more humane.

  And it points   us toward the ultimate meaning and purpose of the universe and life. As others   have suggested, the main point of human existence is to learn something about   love. Well, this new definition of love as unconditional, takes that formerly   high human ideal to new heights of clarity and humanity.

  This new   insight into unconditional love as the supreme human ideal and the true nature   of ultimate reality offers profound potential to reshape human behavioral   response and society. It liberates as nothing else can ever do from all the   debasing and dehumanizing features of animal existence with its conditional   exclusion (small band, tribe), domination, and retaliation, and the destructive   consequences of these behaviors in human society.

    Living An Unconditional Life

  Naturally,   questions arise as to how to express such an ideal in daily life. I once brought   up this idea of unconditional treatment of others in a discussion group and   someone countered, “Oh, you’re saying that we should let psychopaths go free?”   Well, no. Absolutely not. No such thing is being suggested. Any common sense   understanding of love will recognize the fundamental responsibility to protect   innocent people from harm. This means that people who cannot or will not control   their worst impulses to harm others need to be restrained (locked up and in some   cases the key thrown away). It may even mean pro-active endeavor to prevent such   things as terrorism. We remember the common sense expressed by the pacifist   preacher who said, “If someone attacks me and my family, I will beat him over   the head with a 2by4 and when he is lying on the ground unconscious then I will   sit down and discuss my pacifist principles with him”.

  But any such   protective restraint should be done “with a loving heart and with the other   person’s welfare in mind” (http:www.unification.net/ws/theme144.htm). This is a   call for conventional views of justice to be continually re-evaluated and   reformulated in terms of necessary restraint but also in terms of the ongoing   need for strengthening restorative justice ideals as desirable human ideals. And   we ought to be careful that when presenting these common sense qualifiers above   (i.e. forcible restraint of violent people) that we do not diminish the full   impact of the ideal of unconditional treatment of all others.

  Further, how   do we judge and assign culpability in any human life? For instance, decades ago   a teenage boy in the US was condemned to death for a brutal rape and murder of a   woman. But during his trial it came to light that he had been brutalized from   before birth. His father, suspicious that his mother may have cheated, had beat   her pregnant stomach. After the boy was born he was thrown against walls for   crying and beaten repeatedly. He knew only hate and violence all through his   young life. And if the condition of psychopathy is involved in such cases,   researchers suggest there may even be a genetic factor. These people may be born   with defective brains. They still need ongoing restraint and imprisonment in   order to protect others, but surely they also should be shown some mercy for   things that have happened to them that were beyond their control. So the   argument is not about setting people free that cannot control their own worst   impulses but for showing mercy even to the worst offenders (e.g. abolishing the   death penalty).

  Further, some   studies have shown that exacting revenge through our payback justice systems   brings no ultimate or final closure to victims (e.g.   http://www.apa.org/monitor/2009/06/revenge.aspx). We also remember that   forgiveness does not mean that victims are responsible to like offenders in   order to properly forgive them. Others argue that forgiveness is more about   personal liberation from negative emotions regardless of any contact or   relationships with offenders. And by way of caution here- normal human   sensitivity will respect the overwhelming trauma caused to victims by the   unrestrained and intentionally cruel violence of some offenders. Sensitivity   will understand that each person approaches these human ideals in different   ways, from differing experiences, and at their own chosen pace. Any severely   traumatized human being deserves the utmost respect in regard to how they may   wrestle with these human ideals, or choose not to engage them. So while we can   argue that unconditional treatment of all others is a profoundly liberating   approach, different people will embrace such things as they feel able. The   trauma of some people, however, does not mean that unconditional treatment of   others should be dismissed as unrealistic, impractical, or unworkable. Such   dismissal would miss the liberating potential of this ideal.

  Others argue   that if there is no threat of punishment in society then there is nothing to   restrain people from wrong behavior. Anarchy will break out. But the discipline   of psychology has shown that most people respond better to positive affirmation   than to threat and fear.  The Australian   Psychological Society has a paper entitled ‘Punishment and Behavior Change’ ( http://www.psychology.org.au/Assets/Files/punishment_position_paper.pdf )   which argues “that recent trends towards increased reliance on punishment as a   primary response to crime” do not work as expected. For example, punitive   parenting approaches have been linked to higher levels of aggression in   children, the paper claims. And these punitive approaches do not rehabilitate   and deter criminal offenders. They don’t teach “alternative acceptable   behaviors”. The paper recommends approaches that do such things as explain other   people’s perspectives and feelings, and promote empathy and other more positive   alternatives.

Also, we obviously teach children the natural consequences to   all sorts of actions. And unconditional is not an argument against restitution.   That is a common sense and entirely humane responsibility of any offender. It is   up to the victim to engage unconditional response toward offenders.

  Contemporary   psychology further offers another insight that is important to consider in   regard to our struggle to overcome our animal past and live as human. It states   that we are not our inherited animal brain (e.g. Jeffrey Schwartz, You Are Not   Your Brain). Though we still struggle against this residual influence, we are in   reality a conscious self that is essentially love (see for instance, Albert   Nolan’s Jesus Today; or Karen Armstrong’s Twelve Steps to a Compassionate Life).   Some suggest that this true human self as love is the God of love incarnated in   all humanity.

  Note again   that the ideal of unconditional treatment of others faces stiff resistance from   numerous people. It is an ideal that is particularly offensive to good moral   people, and notably to Christians (some examples-        http://withchrist.org/unconditional.htm    , and http://www.acts17-11.com/cows_unlove.html). We saw this earlier in the   stories of Jesus where people were included as a contrast to someone expressing   unconditional generosity, such as the older brother who was offended at the   generous father who refused to punish or demand repayment first. He was not   acting with payback justice (reward good, punish wrong). We could respond to   this by recognizing that all of us intuitively feel that we should be treated   unconditionally and our failures forgiven freely, but we are then often less   generous with the failures of others that we view as worse than ours. So we   begin to set conditions for them that are harsher than what we apply to   ourselves. This type of thinking leaves us all insecure in the end. Who is   really forgiven and included and safe if some are to be excluded from full   unconditional treatment? Once we make it conditional and uncertain for some then   it becomes conditional and uncertain for all of us.

  I would add   that to focus this ideal of unconditional only on response to major traumatizing   events (e.g. serious crimes) is to miss an important application. Lifting a   population or society is more about all members practicing unconditional in the   little details of daily mundane human interaction. This is where we experience   unconditional as a “hard saying” but as the purest form of liberation and   enlightenment.

    Love Beyond Comprehension

  When   considering this new discovery of unconditional love at the core of all reality   we ought to remember the true nature of anything transcendent or having to do   with divinity. It is beyond all imagining in terms of its real perfection and   beauty. It is beyond all understanding or expression. As Campbell notes,   categories, words, names or statements only distort and diminish the truly   incomprehensible. What Ultimate Reality actually is, is so much better than we   can ever imagine or express. The reality of a God that is unconditional love is   infinitely better than the best that can be imagined. When Near Death   Experiencers return after experiencing unconditional love they cannot find words   to express it. So, as Ken Ring says, they stammer hyperbole about that love. It   is something better felt than understood or explained.

  In light of   this, anything less than or contrary to unconditional love could be evaluated as   not truly human, humane, or even true. Unconditional becomes a new touchstone or   centering ideal for all truth and meaning. It becomes the new baseline for all   perception of reality, for meaning, for purpose, for humane feeling, response,   behavior, or authentic human existence. Comparatively, anything less may be   considered non-authentic or inhuman. This new ideal answers the profound human   desire to know and experience what it means to be authentically human and to   know what to look for in order to find that better future or existence that all   humanity longs for.

  At the core of   the universe is this pulsating Energy, Life, Power, Mind, and Consciousness that   is defined by Unconditional Love. It is the greatest discovery ever made, the   greatest insight ever conceived. It gets to the ultimate meaning of the universe   and life, to the purpose of all. And it gets to the essential nature of what   creates and sustains all things, and why- to learn and live something of real   love, and to know that love is unconditional. Unconditional takes the ideal of   love to a new height of humane expression. This is the grand liberation that we   continue to reach for.

  There is a   major revolution occurring in the historical development of human perception and   outlook. We still have further work to do in order to root out this perverse   perception that there is some horrific monster behind life that is going to   retaliate and punish humanity. This is a residual perception that still hinders   modern consciousness from a full liberation into a more humane future.

  The grand   narrative of humanity is about this liberation into that more human future.   Counter movements like Christianity have tried to derail and abort this   liberation but it goes on, driven by dreamers like the Akkadian father, the   Hebrew prophets, the historical Jesus, and many others who have also felt   something of the wonder of being truly human. We are just beginning to play   around the edges of something so profoundly wondrous and liberating that we are   hardly able to understand or begin to express it. It pulls us forward to make   life something ever better.

  Wendell Krossa

  &nbsp;

  Appendices A:

  Some argue   that any speculation about unknowable realities is a waste of time. But because   a lot of bad speculation has already occurred over history and has long shaped   human thought and behavior, often in damaging ways causing much harm, it is   important to correct that speculation and offer better alternatives. To point   toward a better direction for human perception. Hence, my foregoing theological   speculation.

  Appendices B:

  If humanity   can no longer blame punishing gods, how then do we explain human misfortune and   suffering? We can no longer explain it (as people have done all through past   history) in terms of gods retaliating against sin, or disciplining failing   people, or teaching people lessons. And anyway, what monster would harm or kill   people just to teach others lessons, as is the argument of Job’s comforters?

  We have better   alternatives to help in understanding the mystery of suffering. We now recognize   there is an element of freedom in nature and in human existence (freedom of   choice and action).

  Freedom is a   concept essential to any authentic perception of love. Any contemporary   understanding of deity must accept the fact of non-intervention (non-coercion)   as central to genuine love. Love does not over-rule human freedom and choice.   This leaves open the possibility for poor choice and hence, abuse and suffering   caused to others. But such freedom also permits genuine moral good to be   expressed which, according to theologians, is valued highly by a God of love.

  For more   detail on these issues that have perplexed people for millennia see, for   instance, The Triumph of God Over Evil by William Hasker. He offers a thorough   coverage of the issues related to human suffering and attempts to understand and   explain this mystery as much as it is possible.

Background to Retaliation and   Conditional- Appendices C:

Let me rehearse here in summary some of the more prominent   themes from early mythology that have continued to shape human belief systems   through history, most notably with a punishment orientation. I am focusing on   the origins of the two themes developed in the essay.

First, to clarify, the human fear of death is the fundamental   impetus to mythmaking (Campbell- “The recognition of mortality and the   requirement to transcend it is the first great impulse to mythology” Myths to   Live By, p.22). Early people with their developing human consciousness became   aware of life, of existence, and of beauty, love, suffering and all that comes   with conscious human experience of life. But it was their awareness of death   that impacted them the most. Their experience of life and love ended in death.   That realization of finiteness and mortality became a terror to people.

Coupled with their death awareness and death fear they also   felt the fundamental impulse of consciousness for meaning and purpose (Victor   Frankl). This impulse for meaning drove the human desire to understand it all   and to explain life and death. This led to early attempts at mythmaking, at   creating systems of meaning or explanation.

While fear of death pushed them to create mythical   explanations, there were other ideas that shaped the nature of the explanations   that they came up with. Prominent among these ideas were the perception that   there were spiritual forces or spirits/gods behind the forces of nature. We see   this in early accounts of water and wind gods (storm gods), lightning gods, sun   gods, moon gods, and other related gods.

Early people, using the best logic available to them,   concluded that the spirits/gods were angry because the forces of nature were   often destructive and harmed people.

Further, people emerging from an animal past understood life   in terms of animal drives and impulses such as small band mentality, domination   of others (alpha male/female), and retaliation (destroy competitors/enemies). It   is important to note that retaliation begins in the animal world. We embody our   animal past in our physical body and our genes (98% similarity with   chimpanzees), and we also share the same dark and brutal impulses that animals   manifest.

These dark animal impulses are mediated to humanity via a core   animal brain. This is the dark side in humanity, what religious people call   original sin or sinfulness. Viewing human imperfection and failure with the   developing idea of sin is to view humanity harshly as possessing something that   provokes the gods to retaliate. Human imperfection is then viewed as something   deserving punishment and damnation. Early myths also added the element of   wilfulness to human failure. Early people intentionally chose evil and ruined   the original paradise and destroyed life. Later people would project onto their   gods the feature of holiness which further sharpens the sense of human   imperfection and affirms the felt need to punish humanity. Theological   retaliation logic argues that holy, pure gods are obligated to punish sin.

But to call our animal background and inheritance sin is to   unnecessarily demonize humanity and to intensify the felt urge to punish. It is   our background and it remains with us in the form of this inherited animal core   brain (tri-partite brain in evolutionary biological terms- reptilian core,   limbic system, and then later cortex that mediates the later human impulses).   Humanity should not be condemned for emerging out of an animal past and   struggling to gradually progress toward a more human future. Surely patience and   assistance is a more appropriate response to our endeavor to become more human.

Unfortunately, with that animal background and the still   residual animal drives felt in human life, the brutal features of animal   existence were then projected by early people onto their gods. Those gods were   shaped as notably predatory, punitive, or retaliatory gods. They punished and   destroyed people (for example, note the Sumerian Flood myth, Wikipedia, where an   early council of gods decided to annihilate humanity with a flood).

Further in relation to these ideas, people developed the   belief that any human sickness was evidence of punishment from the gods. It was   understood that the gods had sent any sickness because people had broken taboos   and deserved retribution.

The ultimate expression of the gods retaliating against human   imperfection was the idea of final apocalypse, a grand annihilation of all   humanity and all life; the ending of the world. This was the ultimate expression   of retaliating gods punishing humanity.

But later mythmakers would take retaliation and punishment   even further in the perverse myth of hell. After the apocalyptic ending of the   world, imperfect humanity would be destroyed and punished forever in a fiery and   tormenting hell. This is the dark and perverse drive to retaliate and punish   taken to a traumatizing extreme.

The culmination of developing these themes in early mythmaking   is the perception that there is something threatening and punitive behind life,   some great retaliating monster; a super predator. This has been the most   damaging perception ever created by human minds. It has reverberated all down   through history in human consciousness causing more terror, misery and despair   than can be calculated.

As noted in the essay, this perception of something   threatening and punitive, or retaliatory, then sparked the appeasement response   in early people. This is the fear of death being aroused to extremes. Early   people, afraid of the angered spirits/gods, naturally sought a way to escape   punishment and death. They wanted to find some way to appease the angry gods and   find salvation from their threats.

Therefore, the early shaman/priests devised salvation schemes.   Notable here was the offering of sacrifices or blood to appease angry spirits.   This salvation/sacrifice movement has developed into a massive endeavor over   human history. It has been revised and refined in many diverse ways in the   varied religions that people have created but it always expresses essentially   the same desire to appease some angered and retaliatory entity behind life.

Christianity developed the above myths into their most intense   expression and that Christian body of myth has arguably shaped Western   consciousness and society more than any other complex of ideas, and the   civilization of the West has subsequently influenced much of the rest of the   world.

So we have this line of descent from base animal   characteristics and existence down to early animal-like myths and gods, and   further down to more refined expressions of such themes in religions like   Christianity. But in contrast to this line of descent, we also see in history   the emergence of human consciousness in early humanity. This is something new   and uniquely human or humane. As John Eccles says, it is something entirely   outside of the evolutionary process (“A supernatural, spiritual creation... no   other explanation is plausible”). And human consciousness with its new and   unique human impulses takes humanity in an entirely new direction from animal   behavior and existence. This is the exodus into freedom (freedom from animal   drives and existence). It is the beginning of the humanization of all life in   the wonder of civilization.

Evolutionary biology or psychology often does not get the   human element right with its endeavor to understand human experience and life in   terms of our animal past and inheritance. These disciplines have distorted and   degraded the uniquely human by trying to explain it in terms of animal drives   and existence. There are more helpful explanations coming from the disciplines   of theology and psychology.

With the emergence and maturing of consciousness there has   been an ongoing struggle between the human and the animal (religions try to   explain this as a struggle with original sin, but see, for example Lyall   Watson’s Dark Nature for alternative approaches). Despite the ongoing influence   of that animal inheritance, our human consciousness has sparked an overall   trajectory in history that improves irreversibly toward something better over   time. Note, for instance, Stephen Pinker’s The Better Angels of Our Nature and   James Payne’s History of Force for evidence of this long-term improvement, rise,   and advance of humanity and human civilization. We become something more humane   over time and we also humanize the rest of life.

To sum up, the long historical line of ongoing development and   refinement of retaliation (payback, punishment, revenge) has to do with our   animal past and inheritance, and the early projection of this onto ideas of God.   The long historical line of emerging unconditional treatment of others   (non-retaliation, compassion, mercy, and other human traits) has to do with   human consciousness emerging and maturing in humanity over the long-term. As   some argue, this is divinity incarnated in humanity and inspiring humanity   through the wonder of consciousness to become something better over time. To   become what we are- human.

To further clarify, let me add that researchers like Karen   Armstrong (Twelve Steps to a Compassionate Life), Albert Nolan (Jesus Today),   and Jeffrey Schwartz (You Are Not Your Brain) are also wrestling with this issue   of dualism in humanity. They argue that as human persons or human selves we are   not our animal inheritance. We are in essence human and defined by the core   human feature of love. This is our essential nature as human persons, as   supernatural, spiritual creations. This consciousness that is love defines us   most essentially, not our animal past or inheritance.

Thus a new dualism is emerging. Note also the Near-Death   Experience research in this regard. Monism or materialism never dealt properly   with the fundamental human impulse for meaning or purpose. It never understood   the wonder of human consciousness or the wonder of being human as a distinct and   unique new reality in life.    </body>  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/NDERF/Articles/unconditional_love.htm