{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/NDERF\/Articles\/species_logic.htm","mytitle":"A New Species of Logic by Tom Spitzer","mylang":"de"}
          	A New Species of Logic by Tom Spitzer                    	            		

A New Species of   		Logic?
  		by Tom Spitzer     
  Home Page  Current NDEs  Share NDE</span>     	</tr>          	&nbsp;

&nbsp;

In his book “Paranormal, My   Life in Pursuit of the After Life” Raymond Moody references Hume’s thesis   statement where he says: “By mere light of reason it seems impossible to prove   the immortality of the soul. &nbsp;   Some new species of logic is   required for that purpose and some new faculties of the mind that they may   enable us to comprehend that logic.”

Dr. Moody however felt that &nbsp;   “both of these are imminently   doable. It’s just that people get this mental block and they think it can’t be   done”.

By “soul” here I assume   “consciousness”. &nbsp;   I would contend that for a new   species of logic it’s simply necessary to add one additional element to the   brain/mind debate and that is “individuality”. &nbsp;   How do we find ourselves as   seeming individuals showing up in the universe?

Being an individual seems to be   so obvious that it needs no justification and yet we cannot make an a priori   assumption that we must exist as individuals. &nbsp;&nbsp;   Indeed with   critical thinking we can show that the prevalent materialist paradigm   cannot explain our existence as seeming   individuals.

The   materialist philosophy holds that the universe is   unconscious and thereby cannot know if I exist or where I   exist.  &nbsp;   Furthermore some Materialist state   that it’s only possible to exist once. &nbsp;   However this philosophy also   states that the processes of the universe are probabilistic and statistical. &nbsp;   The problem   is that these two statements contradict   each other since probabilistic and statistical processes do repeat.  &nbsp;   If a throw a handful of dice and   get a certain pattern that pattern will repeat if I throw the dice long enough. &nbsp;   If I throw billions of handfuls of   dice then the pattern will occur simultaneously in more than one place.

So why doesn’t that seem to   happen as far as our own existence is concerned? &nbsp;   In the vast cosmos why don’t I   exist in more then one place at a time, or why couldn’t I exist at some point in   the infinite future?    &nbsp; Saying   that a copy of my body exists somewhere else is not enough. My consciousness   would have to be reproduced as well so I’m staring out of another set of   eyeballs. &nbsp;   Separation in space would not   matter. &nbsp;   I’d find myself in the confusing   situation of living two or more superimposed lives simultaneously.

If an   eternal, unconscious, probabilistic and statistical universe somehow brought   forth my consciousness within a finite period of time there is no reason to   believe it would not do so again within an infinite   future.  &nbsp;   Indeed it MUST do so or it would   be impossible for me to exist in the first place.    &nbsp; Although   any linear incarnations under this paradigm would seem like an individual life   each time, existence would subjectively be continuous since it would be   impossible to be aware of any time between each incarnation.

The fact is Materialists have   no theories of how consciousness arises in the first place. &nbsp;   Despite this they make bold   statements about how our existence is an accident and then say that, guess what,   that accident could never happen again. &nbsp;   Clearly this is devoid of all   logic.

Another Materialist claim is   that NDEs are all quite similar because all brains are the same. &nbsp;   This however creates a paradox   since it cannot explain why we find ourselves as seeming individuals. &nbsp;   The consciousness that I am seems   to have shown up associated with the body TJS and no other.    &nbsp; Yet   my brain is the same as any other brain.    &nbsp; There   were billions of body/brains that showed up before   this body did and yet I didn’t seem to be associated with any of   those.  &nbsp;   I didn’t seem to be staring out of   any of those eyeballs.    &nbsp; There   were billions of body/brains that showed up after   this body did including my three siblings and yet I don’t seem to be associated   with any of those.  &nbsp;   I don’t seem to be staring out of   any of those eyeballs either.

Why? &nbsp;   What was so special about the   universe that “I” suddenly seemed to show up when I did? Materialistic science   says “nothing” but something is obviously different. &nbsp;   This body could be running around   without being associated with “me” just like the billions of bodies before it.   What is so special about this body/brain TJS that I’m staring out of these   eyeballs and only these eyeballs? &nbsp;   What is different or   individualized about my brain that this should occur?

The materialist hypothesis is that each brain acts as   a point source of consciousness and that some aspect of the brain is producing   an individualized consciousness in each case.

In order for this to be true   the Materialist would have to be able to define individualized consciousness and   the parameters that make each consciousness individualized. &nbsp;   The Materialist would have to   measure these parameters and determine what aspect of the physical brain is   generating them. &nbsp;   Ultimately   the Materialist would have to be able to explain how some aspect of my brain   could be changed so some someone else   is staring out of these eyeballs instead of me just like the other billions of   bodies that are not me.

What could this aspect of each brain be and how is it   unique in each individual?

Well what do we know?

The sub atomic structure of any   number of brains is the same and cannot be individualized. &nbsp;   The quantum foam, quarks is/are   totally interchangeable.

The atomic structure of any   number of brains is the same and cannot be individualized. &nbsp;   Once again protons, electrons,   neutrons are totally interchangeable.

The anatomy of all human brains   is essentially the same and according to the materialistic philosophy cannot be   considered to be functionally individualized (certain structures in the brain do   the same thing across all human bodies). &nbsp;&nbsp;   DNA is made of the same four   protein molecules in each body. These molecules are interchangeable. &nbsp;   As a matter   of fact except for a tiny percentage (.02%) of a difference in the genome  pattern all bodies are essentially   identical.  &nbsp;   The electricity or electrical   impulses in the brain certainly cannot be said to be individualized. &nbsp;   If I measure an impulse in a brain   and focus just on that there’s no way to say that impulse is associated with one   person or another.

Given   that no “Individuality Module” has ever been found in any brain and all brains   are essentially identical then   logically there should be no such thing as the sense of being an individual.  &nbsp;   If a brain is creating the   consciousness looking out of the eyeballs of body TJS then that consciousness   should be of looking out of all eyeballs everywhere simultaneously. &nbsp;   Separation of bodies in time and   space would not matter. &nbsp;   There shouldn’t be billions of   individuals on the planet but just one individual looking out of all sets of   eyes. &nbsp;   This would be like having white   noise as all sensory input. &nbsp;

Saying that the Universe could be creating exact   duplicate bodies elsewhere is not enough since if I don’t find myself to exist   in those bodies they are not me.

So   although I do seem to be an individual   consciousness the source of that consciousness cannot be a material brain and   therefore consciousness cannot be a point source phenomenon.

If consciousness is not a point source phenomenon it   must be a field phenomenon.

If consciousness is a field phenomenon then my sense   of being an individual must be an illusion.

If my sense of being an individual is an illusion   then any sense of being an individual by any life form must be an illusion.

If all sense of individuality is an illusion then all   consciousness must actually be Unitary or One.

If all consciousness is Unitary or One then obviously   the death of a body/brain pair cannot be the end of consciousness and therefore   consciousness exists outside of time and space and must be eternal.

It all gets back to the old adage “Know Thyself!”.

So by using the correct “species of logic” and real   critical analysis we can see that the Materialistic paradigm is fatally flawed   and that our true nature as Unitary Consciousness can be understood.

Thomas J. Spitzer

8/24/2014

301 286-1899

&nbsp;    </body>  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/NDERF/Articles/species_logic.htm