{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/NDERF\/Articles\/nde_review_hart.htm","mytitle":"A Summary Review of the NDE by Will Hart 5\/18\/15","mylang":"de"}
          	A Summary Review of the NDE by Will Hart 5/18/15                    	            		

A Summary Review of the NDE    
  Home Page  Current NDEs  Share NDE</span>     	</tr>

&nbsp;

  By Will Hart 5/18/15

&nbsp;

    'I was no longer a   body floating above the pool. I became time and space. I could see the entire   universe and it was not like when you watch the Nova channel. It was different   because I was the universe. I was everything''&nbsp;

&nbsp;

NDE   experiences show us that consciousness is not a product of the brain because it   separates from the body.  &nbsp; But   we have problem and that is that we do not know exactly what consciousness is in   any scientific way. That of course presents a contradiction; we are using a   word-concept to describe something that is itself, an unknown.

We are doing this while   unconsciously acting like it is a known. Science has only in recent decades   undertaken serious investigations into consciousness and there are as yet no   conclusive results.

In the   three- dimensional realm we assume that there is a separate entity experiencing   consciousness, an observer observing things and events. Additionally, events   occurring in time are used to   distinguish these phenomena.

Yet none of this seems to   apply to the state of pure, disembodied consciousness as the opening quote   reveals. The one thing that all NDE reports agree upon is the separation of   consciousness, a state of lucid awareness, from the body.

However beyond that, while   there are a number of commonalties that are reported, there are also wide   variations. Where does consciousness go? Is it to a non-physical dimension that   we can in any way compare to the dimensions we know in the material universe?&nbsp;

Some people report soaring   off into starry space, others of going through a tunnel, while many travel   towards a light and yet others find themselves in a black void. Atheists report   seeing spiritual beings even God, paradoxically, many believers do not meet   either. The descriptions of the 'other side' vary so much that they are   bewildering.

In fact,   there does not seem to be anything parallel to what we would call a  place here on earth, no spiritual Golden City on a Hill where   everyone goes, so to speak. This suggests that the 'other side' does not have   any form or structure, which indicates that whatever is perceived is a   projection of consciousness itself.

In other words, a GPS   tracking system would be of no use during an NDE episode.

Can a mind that is   conditioned in the framework of space and time ' in which discrete objects and   events exist -- grasp this? That does seem at all possible at least for a mind   based on memories, time and thought processes. In the end, the mind is a   material process, the product of sensations and memory.

This poses a problem for both   NDE reporters as well as those trying to make sense of their reports. Informants   can only use language that is itself the reflection of the three-dimensional,   separate- observer structure. That system is based upon a linear sense of time,   and separate objects existing in space, which is seen as a container.

But   Einstein proved that that structure does not, in fact, represent the true nature   of what he called the space-time continuum. &nbsp;   His equations shattered the traditional paradigm and   replaced it with a universe in which everything is interdependent and relative.

There is no space independent   of time, no matter independent of energy. Right away this would tend to support   NDE reports which often fuse objects, events and consciousness into a unity.&nbsp;

Rather than being a bridge   for NDE reporters to help them communicate their experiences, language ends up   being a barrier. That is the case because the word-concepts are automatically   processed, by reviewers, into the conscious mind, which instantly translates   them into three-dimensional, linear experience.

The language based mind has   no context for a timeless state or an observer being the thing that is observed.   It does not compute. When an NDE report claims, I saw a light, the mind knows   what that is and it can accept it.

However, whatever the person   reporting experienced during an OBE cannot be equated with our sensory   experience of light. Neither can anything else that is reported and seems   familiar, we have to be wary of transposing NDE accounts into our conventional   frame of reference.

It is interesting to note   that virtually all NDE reports contain references to visually oriented   experiences, i.e., light or darkness, colors. Auditory oriented references are   also mentioned, like hearing music, but less often. Then we find that a very   much smaller number make references to tactile sensations, tastes or smells.

This brings up the   possibility that consciousness may operate like a holographic projector.   Alternatively, that pure consciousness is entirely holographic. We know that the   hologram we see is not really three- dimensional; but knowing that does not stop   it from appearing to be so.

  ' In its pure form,   holography requires the use of&nbsp;   laser  &nbsp;  light   for illuminating the subject and for displaying the finished hologram, relying   solely on the optical phenomena of          interference  &nbsp;  and&nbsp;  diffraction  .   Under optimal conditions, in a side-by-side comparison a holographic image is   visually indistinguishable from the actual subject, if both are lit just as they   were at the time of recording ''

    Of course the analogy is a rough one but it conveys a possible frame of   reference that does not immediately translate a non-physical reality into our

    3-D material one.

    Now for the sake of understanding , and just for the moment, we are accepting   that there is no 'other' dimension that we can define in any objective way,   except to perhaps compare it to limitless space. When disconnected from the body   we will also assume formless consciousness then creates and defines a very   different kind of reality.

    That reality lacks time and/or objects with boundaries as we know them. Then as   the NDE reporter is faced with trying to convey the nature of that reality they   find themselves on the horns of a dilemma. Almost all NDE reports note that   words cannot describe the 'other side' with any accuracy.

    Perhaps we could make this more understandable by comparing it to something very   familiar, the way memory functions. We are so immersed in our memories we are   almost like fish swimming in water. They come and go every few moments sometimes   in great floods, so real some trigger strong emotions.

    Memories seem very real, much like holograms. But if you stop and try to focus   on one you find that it is indeed very holographic. I can picture the stream   flowing into the lake where I often go. I seem to see it, but where? I am not   seeing it with my eyes, so it is not a direct, sensory experience.

    We ask: how can an NDE reporter see anything without eyes, nervous system and   brain? Yet, we 'see' images without eyes in our memories.

    We think, or have been taught to think, that our memories exist within our   brains. But how is this apparent image inside of my brain? I can have my eyes   open and still seem to 'see' it'; but the person standing next to me does not   see anything. Though it is not visible to anyone else, like the hologram, it   appears to be three-dimensional to me.

    However, it clearly does not have any real dimensionality at all. Exactly what   memory is and how it moves so quickly to formulate images, recreate sounds,   etc., remains a mystery. &nbsp; But it is so   familiar we take it for granted as if we, or some group of scientists, fully   understood it. However, such is not the case.  &nbsp;

    The holographic paradigm is not the author's invention. Several decades ago two   scientists Karl Pribam, a neuroscientist and David Bohm, a physicist,   collaborated and came up with the holographic theory of memory.

    Pribram was originally struck by the fact that information about an image point   is distributed throughout a hologram, such that each piece of a hologram   contains some information about the entire image.

    Bohm, a prot'g' of Albert Einstein, had been working on a physics theory he   called the implicate order. He had made a number of significant contributions to   physics, particularly to&nbsp; quantum   mechanics  &nbsp;  and&nbsp; relativity   theory     in the 1950s and '60s .

    Though very well known during his lifetime, he died in 1992, Bohm tried to take   physics in a direction that many in the field did not want to go. In fact, it   has not gone that way. He delved into the realms of thought and consciousness.   To him there was an explicate order that conventional physics described as the   observable and measurable, space-time continuum.

    However, he also theorized that there was also a hidden, measureless, implicate   order underlying this material dimension. Perhaps we could compare that to the   dimensionless (dimension) of NDE experience, albeit, in a very vague, imprecise   way.

    The collaboration produced a theory (Holographic Memory) of brain and memory   function; based upon the principle that memory is stored in the brain much the   same way that information is stored on a three dimensional holographic image.

    Unfortunately, the physics formulas they used to justify the theory are far too   technical to try to present here and the author is no physicist.

    Still this is very important to this discussion because neuroscientists   believed, until quite recently, that memories were stored in specific parts of   the brain. But current research has shown that not to be true.&nbsp;

    Neuroscientists now believe that memories are distributed throughout the brain   and not in well-defined compartments.

    In fact, as to where memories are physically stored scientists now admit there   is no solid answer. Neurologists have done studies in which they teach a mouse a   trick then they removed the right half of its brain, and it still remembered the   trick. Then, they removed the left half, and it still remembered the trick!

    People with brain damage have provided similar outcomes though obviously not   under those kinds of controlled conditions. The deduction is that the memory   remains intact, independent of the functioning of any physical part of the   brain.

    Now this is rather strong support for the holographic memory theory. From a   strictly materialistic point of view we could conclude that ALL memory must   exist in ALL parts of the brain equally at ALL times. That is exactly how   holograms function as well.

    But what if we look at it from the perspective of pure consciousness instead of   from the brain-based point of view, what happens? It actually makes more sense   to have memory stored in consciousness rather than being distributed by neurons   neurotransmitters and dendrites (electrochemically) to all parts of the brain.

    Memories just seem to work too fast to be based upon electrical, biochemical   signal transmissions instantly traversing the brain. We walked through how   memory works above but you can verify for yourself, by becoming super-aware of   the process at any moment.

    Now we have to ask then what is the brain's main role in terms of sensory   functions and behavior? &nbsp;

    We generally think of the brain as the command center where we carry out   conscious, executive functions. The brain thinks, analyzes, strategizes and   plans.&nbsp;

    However, it has a more primary role as a filtering instrument in terms of   sensory input. To properly encode a memory, you must first be paying attention.   Since you cannot pay attention to everything simultaneously; most of what you   encounter every moment is simply filtered out; and only a few select stimuli   pass into your conscious awareness.

    That whole process occurs before the executive roles kick into play. The   filtered stimulus is stored as memories and it is obvious they are much more   limited than we generally imagine.&nbsp;Our   conscious minds and egos further filter that data into a self- image, personal   history and world view.

    What we think of as constituting our most sophisticated machinery, our   brain-mind, is largely made up of a series of pass/no pass electrochemical   gates. Our brains are constantly filtering out the universe, at large, so that   we can function in our limited domains in reaction to whatever environmental   signals are coming at us.

    The mind is often used as a synonym for consciousness. However, that is a   serious mistake that leads to major misunderstandings. The mind is derived from   sensory data and its contents are based in memory.

    However, consciousness includes our thoughts, feelings, perceptions, sensory   experience, memories and so forth.&nbsp;

    As noted previously, the mind is rooted in the brain's three-dimensional,   time-based experiences, consciousness is not. If consciousness were dependent   upon the brain, it could not separate from the body -- with full awareness --   and there would not be any NDE reports to study

    At this point we have come full circle to the mystery of consciousness; this is   the ultimate conundrum wrapped within an enigma, what is consciousness?

    Well, here we return to the fish swimming in the sea. Is the fish aware of the   water, the medium, that it has been living in every moment of its life? We might   constructively consider that consciousness, to us, is a similar transparent   medium.  &nbsp;

    It is everywhere and nowhere in particular, permeating and containing at the   same time, it sustains us and yet we are part of it, using and interacting with   it, a seamless whole as it were.

    The auditory experiences that occur on the 'other side' are also revealing.   People report hearing music but are they really? We also 'hear' music which we   have memorized but not with our ears. We can hum or sing what we seem to be   hearing and make, at once, audible for all to hear.

    But what are we actually hearing in memory alone? It is certainly not a direct,   audible sensory input it is an encoded memory of one.

    Consciousness could do the very same thing in the disembodied state.

    This is pointed up by the fact that when people report communicating with a   loved one, they often stop and mention that we are to understand that it was   telepathic. It is as if they are suddenly aware that no verbal communication in   the ordinary sense is possible in pure consciousness.

    &nbsp;  Another   striking and somewhat paradoxical feature of the NDE phenomenon is the Life   Review. A large majority of cases mention this aspect of the experience. It   would indicate that conscience is a central component of consciousness. What   makes this paradoxical is the fact that most reporters mention that the 'other   side' is a non-judgmental domain.

    We have several other important issues we are going to consider here the first   is whether the 'other side' described in NDE reports is actually eternity or   not.

    By its very definition the NDE experience falls short of final, physical death.   It is a temporary state even if it feels like eternity to the person   experiencing it. This is reinforced by the fact that the majority of informants   report that, while they have left their bodies behind, they are a step removed   from eternity.

    The beings they meet are beyond that step in actual eternity. It is as if the   NDE takes them into a theater lobby, but not all the way into the theater to see   the really Big Show.&nbsp;

    Some describe being in a waiting room, others of going through a tunnel that   ends at some kind of threshold they cannot cross. Very many people try to gain   entry but they invariably fail and are told that it is not their time. Almost   all report being disappointed by having to return to their bodies.

    Another apparently innate feature of consciousness is emotional content. Most   reports contain references to the informant having had very intense feelings   during the experience. This somewhat surprising since science insists emotions   are based in the limbic system, the primitive part of the brain.

    These facts raise very many questions about the true nature of the NDE episode.   Could it be a preview, like a foreshadowing in a narrative, of a much more   elaborate after death reality of which it is just a bare glimpse?

    Serious research into this field is still in an embryonic stage and though much   has been learned, infinitely more remains to be discovered.  &nbsp;

&nbsp;    </body>  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/NDERF/Articles/nde_review_hart.htm