{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/NDERF\/Articles\/structure_thinking.htm","mytitle":"Structure of THINKING \u2013 as a conscious perception","mylang":"de"}
    Structure of THINKING – as a conscious perception                    	            		

          Structure of THINKING – as a conscious perception</b>    
  Home Page  Current NDEs  Share NDE</span>     	</tr>

  &nbsp;

  Kinseher Richard, Kelheim,   Germany, 2016

Structure of THINKING – as a conscious perception

A   new stimulus/thought is processed by the brain in a simple pattern   matching/comparison activity– which we can describe by three simple rules:

    Rule 1 :   We are in a state of conscious perception (= stimulus: real-life/reality (SRL))

  On perception of a new   mental and/or sensual impression (= stimulus: input (SI)) – the brain will   REACTIVATE immediately a comparable own experience, recalled from the memory (=   stimulus: memory (SM))    _    to   create a new temporary conscious reality/perception (= stimulus: temporary   reality (STCP)). &nbsp;    (´ Mirror neurons ´   are not necessary !!!)

    Rule 2 :   The temporary reality (STCP) will be compared with the input-stimulus (SI) and   with our previous reality (SRL) for plausibility (correspondence, identity,   similarity).

    Rule 3A :   When the compare is corresponding, then a mixture (combination) of the   reactivated experience (STCP) and the new stimulus (SI) is accepted, to become   our new reality (SRL) – our conscious perception of real-life (which will be   saved as a new experience into the memory: RE-ACTIVATED memory can be changed   !). And the brain will go back to procedure ´Rule 1´ again.

    Rule 3B :   When the comparison is not possible (no similar experience was found in the   memory), then the level of attention / perception against a new stimulus will   rise, when we focus our mind/attention onto the input of our senses/thoughts –   and this procedure will be repeated: our brain will go back to rule 1, to start   again.      _    But   now, the new stimulus (SI) is compared step-by-step with experiences, who are   stored in the memory – in order to find a suitable, comparable experience. AND:   when the focus/level of attention was changed, then we can perceive the   reactivated experience as our reality (STCP, real). ( _    now   we can perceive a brain activity (= THINKING) as a conscious experience, which   usually would have been processed subconscious.)

  Every experience is made   of a) knowledge, b) body activity, c) sensual- and d) emotional perception   –which will be processed parallel. When we RE-ACTIVATE an experience from the   memory we can react immediately o a new stimulus – this is a survival procedure   (speed is more important than accuracy); this is also a    preview/simulation of   the future ! This is a reason, how/why we can react suitable on moving   objects: e.g. We do not react on the position of the ball, where it was when we   saw it – but our reaction will fit to the position of the moving ball, where it   will be in the future - when we react. Every experience is made, stored and   recalled/reactivated in  present    tense (e.g. This is a reason, why even   deceased persons are recalled/remembered like in a ´real´, vivid encounter). Our   recall of experiences from the memory is a  ´state dependent retrieval ´;   what we recall is dependent on two different states:

  A) On our physical,   emotional and intellectual abilities – when we make an experience and store it   into  the memory.

  B) On our physical,   emotional and intellectual abilities – when we recall/reactivate an experience   from  the memory.

  This does mean, that our   recalled memories will/might be changed with the retrieval – this    alteration   is a reason for  false memories . But this is also the reason why/how   old  experiences are translated/transferred into    new e xperiences   (Therefore we can use our experiences over life-span – although we change us   permanently).

  When we RE-ACTIVATE an own   experience as reaction on a perceived situation – we can understand what we had   perceived (based on our OWN knowledge): this is the origin of    EMPATHY, THEORY   OF MIND , but also of  PREJUDICE    and  FALSE MEMORIES    (prejudice:   We reactivate own experiences which were made with the own ethnic group/family –   this might create a misunderstanding of foreign/strange behavior).

  2

  A Baby can create new   knowledge/experience when it  IMITATE    the bodily-/emotional-behaviour   which

  it had observed at other   persons.. By this imitation it will create a  COPY    of a perceived   situation, with

  the own body/emotion –   this copy is then saved as an OWN experience into the memory.

  Examples of different   situations:

  - When on the perception   of the stimulus ABCD – an own experience ABCD is reactivated – then both

  stimuli are identical and   we can react immediately.

  - When the stimulus ABCD   will trigger the reactivation of ABCe, then both experiences are not

  completely identical –   this might be perceived as a ´déjà-vu´.

  - When as reaction on   stimulus ABCD – the brain reactivate ABef and CDfg (combined = ABCDeffg) –

  we can recognize here the   origin of  CREATIVITY : When we give every component a value ´1´, then

  double-ff will get (2*1=)   2 (= an emphasis, in compare to the other components of the stimulus) = the

  ´Aha-/Heureka-Moment´.   This procedure can also explain the phenomena ´ mind wandering ´,    ´day

    dreaming´    or   even  ´unwanted/unwelcome memories´    - when the combined experience with   ´ff´ will be

  used as a new input   stimulus (SI).

Confirmation of this structure - and rules:

Two   well known phenomena can be described by the structure/rules of thinking which   was introduced in the text above:

  1)   Slow-motion perception of a flying ball    in tennis and baseball it is   sometimes reported to have perceived the flying ball like in a slow-motion   movement. This effect can be explained very simple:

  A) On perception of the   flying ball (SI) – a comparable experience to the ball´s position (body reaction   included) is reactivated (= STCP); [= Rule 1].

  B) Then the reactivated   memory (STCP) will be compared with the reality (SI) [= Rule 2] – but this   comparison will go wrong; because the ball has continued to move on and is now   in a new position.

  Therefore the focus of   attention towards the flying ball will rise [= Rule 3] and for the new position   of the ball – again a new comparable experience will be recalled/reactivated   from the memory [= Rule 1; =A) ]

  This procedure will be   repeated several times and can be perceived as a conscious experience. The   origin of the slow-motion perception is a) that the level of attention was   changed in order to find a suitable reaction (memory) – and b) this procedure   will need some time: The flying ball will move on, but only the position of the   reactivated memory (STCP) will step-by-step come into conscious perception. The   advantage for a sportsman/-woman is, that they will focus their mind and   perception only towards the flying ball. This will allow them a suitable/perfect   reaction.

2)   Near-Death Experience (NDE) – a conscious perception: procedures/strategies of   thinking

  ( FOREWORD : NDEs are   well known since 1975 when Dr. Raymond A. Moody published this idea in his book   `Life after Life´: When a person hears to be declared by medical staff as dead   or when a person think by itself to die – then NDEs might start: e.g. with a   quick review of the own life-span experiences and sometimes an ´out-of-body   experience´, where the own body can be observed from a position above. Moody   described NDEs as an EXPERIENCE OF DYING – but in his text he wrote very clear   that all persons were alive and that it is possible to observe the surrounding   even in detail (parallel to the NDE).

  A person who had an   experience of dying – must be a corpse. Death is not reversible; therefore,   nobody is able to report a dying experience. / Epikure said already 2300 years   ago: ´as long as I exist – death is not here, when death is here – then I do not   exist´. Therefore, the idea/term ´Near-Death´ was and is a nonsense – but I have   to use it here because it is a fixed term in literature. My explanation model   about NDEs is based on the statement – that death is not reversible and that all   persons were alive with a clear conscious mind, when they had their NDE!)

Explanation model of ´Near-Death Experience´(NDE)

  A) When a person   hear/think ´I am dead/I will die´, then is this stimulus(thought)

  incomprehensible/wrong for   a person who is alive. Therefore, a comparison with own experiences is not   possible and the brain will change the focus of attention to solve this problem   [= Rule 3B]. This is the reason why it is possible to perceive a process of   thinking as a conscious experience; the brain will use    two different   strategies  (B,C):

  B) By this strategy, the   strange stimulus (experience: I will die) will be  compared step-by-step    [always with Rule 1-3] against each of those autobiographical experiences who   are stacked up in the  episodic memory . Each of these experiences will be   RE-ACTIVATED and additional changed in a ´state dependent retrieval´. This   procedure is performed with an extremely high speed – therefore all live-span   experiences of a person are recalled rapid, in (a) second(s) like a real   life-review in a conscious perception.

  C) Sometimes a  virtual   simulation  of the actual situation is created by the brain: the ´out-of-body   experience´(OBE). OBES are crated meanwhile by the Karolinska Institute   (Stockholm) completely with healthy persons in the brain-scanner! In NDEs, OBEs   are perceived alone, at the beginning, in between or towards the end. Therefore   we can say, that all persons who had a NDE are mentally as clear and conscious   as the persons in the brain-scanner experiment. ( www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2015    /04/150430123107.htm ´Brain scan reveals out-of-body illusion´; DOI:   10.1016/j.cub.2015.03.059 – additional we know from lucid-dreaming experiences,   that it is possible to fly, to move through walls – as a mental imagination)

  D) When a   different/another stimulus comes into perception – then the NDE is finished.

  (This explanation model   was developed with the knowledge, which is available since 1975 in the book   ´Life after Life´! )

Structure of the episodic memory – perceived in a conscious recall

  NDEs show, that   experiences from the episodic memory are recalled in ascending/descending order   or in spots. Responsible for the order is the state of the brain prior to the   strange stimulus, which will start the NDE. (www.sciencedaily.com/releases/   2015/03/150313110402.htm ´Free will? Analysis of worm neurons suggest how a   single stimulus can trigger different responses´: DOI:   10.1016/j.cell.2015.02.018) I will describe the recalled experiences here in   ascending hierarchical order.

    This text is theoretical !   – it describe some experiences which are possible since the 5 th       month of fetus age =A) – and how these experiences might be changed in a ´state   dependent retrieval´ by an adult person = B).

  When we compare the   B)-texts and NDE-reports which are published since 1975 in ´Life after Life´   -then we can recognize that a lot of details are identical. Therefore we can   say:  In NDEs we do recall experiences since the 5  th    month of fetus-age from   the episodic memory .   AND: Experiences are stacked up in the memory and recalled in hierarchical   order!

  1A) Earlier than the 20 th       week of pregnancy a fetus can feel skin contacts but neither hear nor see   anything      _    1B)   An adult person will recall this as a pleasant state in quietness (with the   complete absence of optical/acoustic impressions because ear/eye do not work   now).

  2A) Since the 20 th       week of pregnancy, the acoustic sense is active. A fetus can hear sounds of   speech, heartbeats, breathing and digestion    _    2B) Adult persons have already   developed a sense for the rhythm/melody of language and music. Recalled   experiences therefore will be perceived as unusual, ugly and very loud sounds.

  3A) The development of the   optical sense is a step-by-step action. At the begin is darkness and the area of   perceived light will increase with the number of optical cells who are working       _    3B)   When we recall these experiences, we have the illusion to be in a dark tunnel   and to move very quick towards a light of increasing size (a similar illusion   like in a film, where movement is created by a fast sequence of single   pictures). (The perception of sound is now reduced. This effect is named   ´habituation´, Prof. Dr. Jan Nijhuis, Prof. Dr. Charlene Krueger) 4) When the   perception of light change from dim to a brilliant brightness – then is this the   light

  perception before and   after birth.

  5A) After birth a baby is   almost blind, it can feel the tender loving touches and hear when parents talk   friendly to it – and will combine all these different experiences to an   integrated whole    _    5B)   In a state dependent retrieval, we might have the impression to have met a   light/´being of light´ **) with an own personality, a source of unlimited love   and affection.

  6A) At an age of 6 month,   babies can distinguish colors, but infants can make mistakes when they store the   combination of color and object as an experience into the memory – until an age   of 4 years (Prof.

  Vanessa Simmering)      _    6B)   At a recall we might perceive buildings/landscapes in bright and phantasmal   colors (This is not in Moody´s book)

  7) NDE-reports of the   early childhood describe, that we do recall our parents as ´being of light´ **)   in an age, where we can use and understand language: We are told in this age   what good/bad/selfish/friendly/morality behavior is – and that we shall learn   throughout our complete life-span. (Moody, chapter ´The Review´) 8) When we are   able to speak and to describe our world with words, then we can describe and   remember experiences – up to our actual age.

  ( **) = recalled   experiences are perceived vivid/real because they are in present tense. The   experience of a real ´encounter´ with deceased persons and with a ´being of   light´ - a source of unlimited love – might be (lifelong) a reason for   resilience (which help us to overcome even great misfortune) and for the human   inclination to spirituality.)

  - - - - -

  (When a long-standing   partner died, the bereaved person can have a ´ after death communication ´(ADC)   in the flat/house: the deceased person is recalled like real/vivid – sometimes   it is even possible to ´talk´. &nbsp;    The   reason for this is simple: when a lot of details in the flat are identical over   years – the deceased partner is RE-ACTIVATED together with this information.   This ADC will vanish after several weeks – when it was learned, that the   deceased person is not in the flat – or when the flat will be changed (other   details: furniture, surrounding, smells).

Why   is this important to memory research?

  In   NDEs we can perceive as a conscious experience how a single stimulus is   processed by the brain – using two different strategies. This access to the   memory is unique !!! – and was never discussed in science .

  We can perceive that   episodic memories are stacked up in hierarchical order since the 5 th       month of fetal age – therefore the term ´childhood/infantile amnesia´ is   doubtful/wrong.

  We have to describe most   of the NDE-research up to now with the terms BUNGLE and FRAUD – because NDEs   were only discussed as dying experience, as hallucination of dying persons – but   never as the experiences of persons with a clear conscious mind!

Literature (available as books and as e-books):

    Kinseher Richard: Near-Death Experiences completely explained    (very cheap, very small   book, only with basic information in poor English)     Kinseher Richard: Pfusch, Betrug, Nahtod-Erfahrung    (good information in German   language, the title refer to the bad quality of NDE-research up to now. My   explanation model of NDEs is based mainly on the book of Dr. Moody ´Life after   Life´ to demonstrate, that it might have been possible to explain the phenomenon   ´Near-Death Experience´ already 1975)     </body>  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/NDERF/Articles/structure_thinking.htm