{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/NDERF\/Articles\/raja_yoga_nde.html","mytitle":"Buddhism & NDE","mylang":"de"}
          	Buddhism & NDE                     	            		

  Raja Yoga Meditation & NDE    
  Home Page  Current NDEs  Share NDE</span>     	</tr>

  Connecting the Puzzles of NDE to the Spiritual Knowledge of Raja Yoga Meditation – A Revelation of Our True Identity as Immortal Souls and How to Stay in that True Identity as Souls and Experience the Supreme Soul God and the Spiritual Home While Living in the Physical World   Bangura 

  by Quynh Truong (Cambridge Inner Space Team) 
  &nbsp;     The article, titled 'Connecting NDE Insights and Raja Yoga: Understanding Our Immortal Soul and Experiencing the Supreme in the Physical World,' explores Near-Death Experiences (NDE) and their spiritual significance through Raja Yoga Meditation.  

  Their shared encounters consistently point to the existence of our consciousness beyond the physical body, a journey to a timeless dimension, the presence of a 'special light,' and a return journey to the physical dimension.  

  These patterns observed in thousands of people with NDE worldwide affirm two crucial aspects: our existence beyond the physical body and the presence of a spiritual being of light who is familiar with us from the other side. Scientific research in consciousness  is also attempting to understand what occurs beyond the death of the body and understand the metaphysical dimension.  

  The Brahma Kumaris, the World Spiritual University, have been exceptionally fortunate to receive comprehensive knowledge directly from God since 1936. God's teachings through Raja Yoga meditation include knowledge about souls, the soul world (home), and the Supreme Soul (the Incorporeal God). This divine knowledge reveals that we are souls like tiny stars, points of living light, and we are not the physical body. The nature of souls is pure, loving, peaceful, and blissful.  

  The knowledge explains why individuals with NDE realise that their consciousness exists beyond the physical body, and there is no death of the 'true' self, the soul. Souls continue to exist even when the body dies, moving from one birth to another through reincarnation. Cases of children remembering past lives, extensively researched and documented by Dr Ian Stevenson (a psychiatrist) and his team at the Division of Perceptual Studies at the University of Virginia, further support these insights.  

  The knowledge also informs us that souls reside in the Supreme Abode, the soul world called Paramdarm, a metaphysical dimension. Paramdarm is a silent, timeless, changeless, and endless world of eternity, infinite peace, perfection, and fullness. This explains why people with NDE remember being in that profound, peaceful, and timeless dimension while the corresponding time in the physical dimension was much shorter.  

  The Supreme Father God, the Ocean of Knowledge, and the Ocean of Peace reside in the soul world. He is a point of light and does not take birth in a human body through the womb, holding complete knowledge of souls, the soul world, and the human world cycle. Since 1936, He has come down to teach us who we are, where we come from, and how we can return to that original soul-conscious stage—complete security, peace, happiness, and love.  

  By practicing soul consciousness and viewing the physical world as a drama stage where each of us dons a costume (the body), we learn to be detached observers, staying beyond any bondage of the drama. In this soul consciousness stage, we can remain in our true nature of full security, peace, and love while living in the physical world. This stage of soul consciousness, complemented by the other teachings of God, serves to awaken all souls. Through this process, Heaven on Earth is created and this is the beginning of the physical world cycle when pure, soul conscious beings reside in unlimited love and happiness.   

  The meditative steps He has shown us to experience Him and the spiritual home while in the physical costume require seeing ourselves as a tiny point completely detached from the physical body and bodily relationships. It is in that detached stage and the silent mind that we, souls, can experience Him. The environment of the true Home and the connection with Him revive, nourish, and empowers the soul.  

  You are welcome to explore His knowledge and experiment with Raja Yoga meditation to experience that peaceful, silent home and establish a personal relationship with the Supreme Father directly. As regular students of the Brahma Kumaris, we continue to embrace God’s knowledge through daily classes, meditation, and the practice of soul consciousness, sharing His wisdom with the whole world. For more information about knowledge and meditation classes, please visit the website cambridgeinnerspace.org or contact Cambridge Inner Space at cambridge@innerspace.org.       </body>  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/NDERF/Articles/raja_yoga_nde.html