{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/NDERF\/Articles\/universal_consciousness.htm","mytitle":"Universal consciousness underlies all of reality","mylang":"de"}
          	Universal consciousness underlies all of reality                    	            		

Universal consciousness underlies all of reality: a tripartite domain theory     
  Home Page  Current NDEs  Share NDE</span>     	</tr>

  By Jack H Hiller, PhD, JD April 29, 2017, updated   September 20, 2017

  &nbsp;

  High Flight
  
  By
  
  John Gillespie Magee, Jr (1941)
  
  
  
  &quot;Oh, I have slipped the surly bonds of earth,
  And danced the skies on laughter-silvered wings;
  Sunward I've climbed and joined the tumbling mirth of sun-split clouds -
  and done a hundred things You have not dreamed of -
  wheeled and soared and swung high in the sunlit silence.
  Hovering there I've chased the shouting wind along
  and flung my eager craft through footless halls of air.
  
  &quot;Up, up the long delirious burning blue
  I've topped the wind-swept heights with easy grace,
  where never lark, or even eagle, flew;
  and, while with silent, lifting mind I've trod
  the high untrespassed sanctity of space,
  put out my hand and touched the face of God.&quot;
  
  Introduction
  
  The mind and brain are distinguished by their intrinsic nature in   philosophy and psychology, but there are two different dominant schools of   thought about how they work together. The materialists, to include most   neurologists and other &quot;hard&quot; scientists, do not believe in an immaterial   consciousness, but expect research to eventually demonstrate how consciousness   is either a brain process, or an epiphenomenon not worthy of continued research.   The other school accepts that body and brain process the physical sensory input   for conscious perception, but argues that the perception that is realized in   conscious perception exists in an immaterial mind or soul; that is the position   taken by the Tripartite Domain Theory, but it goes a step further that has not   been theorized by any other philosophers or scientists-- the Tripartite theory   claims that all of the physical, material world is intrinsically always   connected to, or a part of (a subset of) the universal consciousness that is the   natural home for the soul in what is defined as the 2nd Domain (the 1st Domain   is the pure thought or consciousness which is God) when not connected to a   brain. 
  
  The Tripartite Domain Theory analysis of the &quot;spooky action at a distance&quot;   demonstrated by quantum entanglement is what led to the conclusion that the   phenomenon of instant &quot;communication,&quot; regardless of the size of the distance   separating entangled elements, could only be explained as characteristic of the   instantaneous communication reported by NDE/OBE observers while present in the   spiritual world. Thus, it followed that the material objects of our physical   world (i.e., the 3rd Domain) also exist in the 2nd Domain, and it is their   action in the 2nd Domain of universal consciousness that enables the   instantaneous communication exhibited in the 3rd Domain of physical reality.     This theorized connection between the 2nd and 3rd Domains may explain the   nature of the source for the estimated 95% &quot;dark&quot; energy and matter that remains   scientifically unobserved, i.e., the source may be in the 2nd Domain. 
  
  The bizarre phenomena of instantaneous communication between entangled   particles, predicted, but unexplained by quantum mechanics, and impossible to   explain by classical mechanistic physics, is applied by the new analysis   presented here to imply that only an 'energy' free continuum, also free of time   and space constraints, may explain it-- and we term that continuum the   &quot;universal field of consciousness.&quot;
  
  A variety of analysts have claimed that materialism ought to be replaced by   consciousness as the basic paradigm for science, but &quot;consciousness&quot; defies the   cardinal requirement for modern physics of enabling objective observation of   phenomena with reliable measurement-- as it is by definition and usage   unobservable to any but an individual's private mind. However, the entanglement   phenomenon (as explained below) provides strong evidence for inferring that the   basis for all experience is disembodied consciousness. Furthermore, physics can   no longer deny consideration of consciousness as an explanatory paradigm,   because it has elevated super string theory to its best hope for developing a   &quot;theory of everything&quot; (i.e., a single theoretical framework that includes both   Relativity theory and quantum mechanics) when the string has a size on the order   of the Planck length ( approximately equal to 1.6 x 10-35 meters) which is in   principle far too small to be directly observed, and may only be inferred from   indirect evidence, such as this analysis does with entanglement.
  
  
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  
  The Near Death Experience (NDE) research literature established that Out of Body   Experiences (OBE) are reliably associated with the trauma of an NDE; significant   reference works include Raymond Moody's Life after Life, Jeffrey Long's Evidence   of the Afterlife, and Pim van Lommel's Consciousness Beyond Life. The reality of   the OBE, as demonstrated by substantial empirical fact checking, creates a   problem for the standard paradigm of modern science, materialism, because   consciousness does not follow the laws of standard materialistic physical   science.
  
  
  
     The OBE reflects disembodied consciousness 
     
  The OBE is well characterized by a consciousness separated from the traumatized   body that enjoys perception which is enhanced over normal perception; examples   include the vividness of colors; feelings of perfect peace, and often the   feeling of being loved without judgment by God. Despite these remarkable reports   about disembodied consciousness, substantial evidence for the functioning of   human consciousness without a normal brain has been collected and well organized   in research reports. A powerful video presentation by Dr. Bruce Greyson (   https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2aWM95RuMqU ) cites evidence for disembodied   consciousness such as accurately viewing activities distant from the traumatized   body, meeting previously unmet and unknown relatives whose existence was later   verified, recollecting former lives with verification of how they reported   deaths injuries; seeing by blind individuals who experienced a form of visual   perception that was accurate, and traveling made to a heavenly realm where   deceased relatives were typically met. 
  
  Features of the OBE experience (e.g., time having ceased to run, and all   entities appearing to be made of some form of light) were explained to be   compatible with Relativity Theory and quantum mechanics in a chapter by the   author on Frozen Time Theory (FTT) in Real Visitors, Voices from Beyond and   Parallel Dimensions by Brad and Sherry Steiger. In the FTT chapter, it was   hypothesized that the baffling phenomena of quantum particle entanglement (what   Einstein aptly termed, 'spooky action at a distance') might be explained by   applying the four dimensional space-time model of Relativity theory with time   recast as a true fourth dimension.
  
  
  
     The reality of instantaneous communication for entangled particles   implies materialism is an invalid paradigm for science 
     
  This note seeks to extend the explanation earlier presented in FTT of how the   instantaneous interaction of particles, separated in space, may take place,   regardless of their separation distance. It was found to be necessary to replace   the materialist paradigm with immaterial consciousness for the entire realm of   existence. The implications of particle entanglement drive the need to   reformulate our understanding of the nature of reality.
  
  During the development of quantum mechanics, Einstein noticed that its   formulation implied the mathematical possibility for the atomic particles of a   unified (entangled) system to communicate with each other instantaneously,   regardless of how far apart they were, thus violating the stricture of his   Relativity Theory limiting communication to the speed of light (EPR paradox,   https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/EPR_paradox ). However, empirical research has   demonstrated that communication for entangled particles does appear to be   instantaneous (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_entanglement ).   Instantaneous communication baffles any conceivable explanation by any   contemporary materialistic physical theory.
  
  
  
     Frozen Time Theory Explains Instantaneous Communication 
     
  In the FTT, it was proposed that the apparently separated particles of an   entangled system (e.g., an atom or molecule) may communicate instantaneously by   being collocated on the time dimension. For this explanation to work, the   Schrodinger wave equation that so well defines the formulation of quantum   mechanical theory (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Schr%C3%B6dinger_equation )   would have to be interpreted to represent particles being manifested as true   energy waves extended across space, instead of as merely probabilities for   spatial location of a discrete particle. (Whether the Schrodinger equation   implies discrete particle spatial location probabilities, or the phases of a   wave extended through space, has been an ongoing debate from the days of its   formulation; see Particles as Waves in the wiki at [   https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Schr%C3%B6dinger_equation#Particles_as_waves ]) .
  
  
  
     The concept of an energy wave defines it to be extended across space-time 
     
  In a wave form, a particle's wave is extended across the manifold of space-time.   For simplicity, visualize a two dimensional Cartesian graph (a vertical y axis   by a horizontal t axis) of two separated particles; each particle is plotted   separately on the y axis while being set to the same value for the time   dimension t. In the FTT, two entangled particles were proposed to be in constant   communication by their waves from the instant that the particles were formed as   an entangled system. Thus, when one of the particles is 'touched' by an   observation that measures any characteristic of its existence, such as having a   spin in one direction or another, the touched particle is activated into   manifesting with either an up or down spin (in terms of the Schroeder wave   equation, it is said to collapse into one of its possible solutions). The   surprising prediction from quantum mechanics was that the second particle would   instantly react to the first particle's manifested state by manifesting a   complementary spin to keep the entangled system in balance (if the first   particle were measured as, say, having an up spin, then its partner would   manifest as having a down spin). The results of a considerable amount of   experimentation have confirmed that the first particle observed appears to   randomly acquire its spin as up or down, and then the second, paired, particle   reliably manifests the theoretically expected balancing spin.
  
  
  
     Instant communication between entangled particles implies they are not   fundamentally material entities 
     
  A counter argument might be made that the energy level of waves extended over a   great distance ought to be too low to enable any effective communication between   such separated particles, and this argument makes sense for the materialistic   paradigm. Consider, however, that effective instantaneous communication is   commonly reported between spiritual entities during OBE episodes. Thus, an apt   conjecture, based on consideration of OBE phenomena, would be that entangled   particles communicate by a wave connection that exists in a field of   consciousness whose power to operate is continuous throughout its entire field   regardless of separation distance. The conjecture that the material particles we   may observe also exist as entities in a universal field of consciousness is   consistent with the quantum theory hypothesis formulated by de Broglie that all   matter is wave-like in nature. .(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matter_wave#The_de_Broglie_hypothesis   ).
  
  
  
     Ordinary perception of the material world is a construction of the mind 
     
  It is proposed here that the light we perceive, that informs us of a material   reality, exists in an underlying field of consciousness. Furthermore, our   ordinary perception of our external reality, the world that we normally see,   while informed by the light of objects, is itself a mental construction formed   by our consciousness, with our consciousness itself operating in a universal   field of consciousness. Our ordinary perception conveys to our minds the   existence of a material world of solid objects that we see, touch and feel. But   we have known for over a century that material objects are composed of atoms   which are themselves mostly space separating electrons in orbits relatively far   distant from their nucleus of protons and neutrons; thus, the material world we   'see' is not really what exists. Centuries ago, before modern physics discovered   the atomic structure we now accept for the material world, Immanuel Kant's   analysis recognized that human perception was unable in principle to see the   world the way it might truly exist; we see appearances of entities, but cannot   possibly know them as they truly exist ( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Immanuel_Kant   ).
  
  
  
     All existence is found in a universal field of consciousness 
     
  Analysis of how entangled particles, separated across any vast distances,   communicate instantaneously, defies explanation by classical, mechanistic,   physical theorizing. Quantum mechanics itself offers no explanation, or even   hints at any explanation, for 'spooky action at a distance.' The explanation   proposed here for entangled particle communication, instantly across any   extended distance, was driven to rely on an immaterial concept holding that   reality is based on a universal field of consciousness in which time and space   do not exist. Our ordinary perception of the world is surely helpful for living   and surviving, but cannot in principle display the underlying reality. Thus, it   may reasonably be speculated that reality consists of a field of universal   consciousness. How was this field created? How could it have been created? There   are no answers found in ordinary life. Fortunately, the NDE with its OBE have   provided reports relevant to explaining Creation.
  
  
  
     Synchronicity fully characterizes activity in the realm of consciousness 
     
  Carl Jung developed the concept of synchronicity (   https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Synchronicity ) as a concept about acausal events,   meaningful coincidences occurring without any apparent causal connections.   Interestingly, Jung's development of this acausal concept was informally   assisted by the quantum physicist Wolfgang Pauli (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wolfgang_Pauli   ). However, an analysis of time not running during OBEs, as explained in Frozen   Time Theory, implies that all activity in the realm of disembodied conscious   spirit is acausal, and thus synchronistic. Where time does not flow, causation   becomes an empty concept, because activity does not sequence from one action to   the next. Because the realm of consciousness contains no mass (or energy,   considering that Einstein proved that mass and energy are interchangeable), it   lacks the energy required in our material world to drive activity.
  
  
  
     Existence functions in three inter-related domains 
     
  This paper delineates three inter-related domains of existence.
  
  The first domain is the foundation domain, what is termed here as the &quot;universal   field of consciousness.&quot; This &quot;field&quot; is God, and included in God are His spirit   (human and 'other') creations also as pure consciousness with all connected   together as a unitary field. An ordinary definition for consciousness could   allude to self-awareness, thought, imagination, and decision making-- but these   actions are the result of consciousness, and not the noumena, as Kant defined   for unknown entities that give rise to perception, the thing in itself. Instead,   consciousness is basically a primitive term that cannot be defined with words,   but may only be known thru experience; for example, if we try to define the   fragrance perceived from a rose for someone who has never experienced the   fragrance, the words would provide meaningless terminology.
  
  
  
  The second domain, which is more fundamental than materialistic space-time, is a   multidimensional world that is populated by spirit beings that take the form of   light, with God also manifesting as light. The NDE/OBE reports are typically   about perception within this domain. The second domain is generally referred to   as Heaven. Heaven is characterized by uninterrupted love from God, the total   absence of stressors, such as produced in the material body for food, clothing   and shelter, and lusts, such as for sex, money, and power.
  
  The third is the material domain we normally perceive while living on the Earth,   which includes the three spatial dimensions, and consciousness of time passing,   with a distinctive past, and a future. The hypothesized purpose for God creating   the material domain is to provide for spiritual development through the   experience of stressors, lusts, and the free will reaction to them. Such   spiritual development is impossible in the second domain, Heaven, for lack of   stressors and conflicts.
  
  
  
     Resolution of apparent conflicts between morality and amorality for life 
     
  It is frequently reported from the NDE/OBE, and from spiritually transformative   experiences or deep states of meditation, that God does not judge the spirit as   His love is given unconditionally. Self judgement is natural during life reviews   subsequent to trauma, and individuals may deeply regret hurtful or immoral   behavior, but God is felt NOT to judge. Yet, all cultures and the   Judeo-Christian religions are deeply concerned about morality'good vs. evil, and   condemn, not only immoral behavior, but even immoral thoughts or imagination   (the precursors to potential action). The Ten Commandments and Christ's Golden   Rule make it clear that the moral dimension of life is paramount, and thus   important to God. Thus, there is an apparent conflict between conventional   culture and religion and reporting from NDE/OBE and meditative states that good   and evil are unimportant to God and reflect a mistake in Western culture and   religion. A resolution for this apparent conflict is inherent in the tripartite   domain theory.
  
  When individuals are having an OBE or deep meditation experience, the context is   the second, Heavenly, domain in which stress and evil do not exist'God would not   be judging what does not then exist, although individuals in their life review   may typically judge the moral character of their own behavior. However, morality   surely applies to the material, Earth, domain by God's design to enable   spiritual development. The New Age idea, that morality is a false precept from   archaic religions, fails to recognize morality is at the core of God's design   for life on the Earth to enable spiritual development.
  
  
  
     The universal field of consciousness is God 
     
  Max Planck, the founder of quantum theory, concluded that consciousness provides   the foundation for material reality, &quot;I regard consciousness as fundamental. I   regard matter as derivative from consciousness. We cannot get behind   consciousness. Everything that we talk about, everything that we regard as   existing, postulates consciousness.&quot; Furthermore, &quot; As a man who has devoted his   whole life to the most clearheaded science, to the study of matter, I can tell   you as a result of my research about the atoms this much: There is no matter as   such! All matter originates and exists only by virtue of a force which brings   the particles of an atom to vibration and holds this most minute solar system of   the atom together. . . . We must assume behind this force the existence of a   conscious and intelligent Mind. This Mind is the matrix of all matter. &quot; (See,   https://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/Max_Planck ). The explanation found for Creation   is that God created the world, that the world created is fundamentally   consciousness, and that the world is in fact God's very being. A frequent report   from those traumatized individuals returning from an NDE is that, while their   soul existed in a spirit form in Heaven or in the direct presence of God, they   realized that everything, every thing, is connected and actually part of God.   Given that God is eternal and all that exists, so too are all of God's   creations. Our lives, our experiences, good and bad, harsh and beautiful, are   all the play of God creatively exploring possibilities throughout eternity. </p>    

&nbsp;

    </u>    &nbsp;  </p>    </body>  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/NDERF/Articles/universal_consciousness.htm