{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/NDERF\/Articles\/future_memories.htm","mytitle":"Why Future Memories of NDEs are Imprecise by Brian Foster","mylang":"de"}
          	Why Future Memories of NDEs are Imprecise by Brian Foster                            	            		

Why Future Memories of NDEs are   		Imprecise    
  Home Page  Current NDEs  Share NDE</span>     	</tr>

  By Brian Foster

&nbsp;

Abstract

&nbsp;

  When people experience NDE's, they have the future revealed to them. For some, they speak about the future while delirious, others see the future while in a NDE state, then forget most of what they saw. Why does the memories of NDE disappear or fade away so quickly. There is a reason why we must forget and it is fully explained by Spiritism.

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

Introduction

&nbsp;

In the book Between Heaven and Earth,   dictated to Francisco C. Xavier, by the spirit Andre Luiz, a woman, named   Antonina, is given a chance to meet her deceased child (Marcos) in the Spirit   world. She finds the child is happy with his life in heaven. She feels wonderful   about the experience. When her spirit is put back into her body, the team leader   (Clarencio), with whom Andre and Hilario are assisting, says,

&quot;Our friend cannot hold on to the memory of what occurred,&quot;   stated Clarencio.

&quot;Why not?&quot; asked Hilario.

&quot;Very few spirits are capable of living on earth with the   visions of life eternal. They need the environment of inner twilight. A full   memory of what occurred would result in a fatal longing.&quot;

But the Minister patiently explained: &quot;Each stage in life   is characterized by special purposes. Honey may be tasty nectar for the child,   but it mustn't be given indiscriminately - too much and it becomes a laxative.   While we are in the earthly envelope, we cannot stay in contact with the spirit   realm too long or our soul will lose interest in struggling worthily till the   end of the body. Antonina will recall our trip but only vaguely, like someone   who brings a beautiful but blurry picture to the living arena of her soul. But   she will remember her son more vividly, enough for her to feel reassured and   convinced that Marcos is waiting for her in the Greater Life. Such certainty   will be sweet nourishment for her heart.&quot;[1]

The message we are hearing is that contact   with the Spirit realm is too enjoyable, a feeling of peacefulness and love that   we would constantly long for, if we remembered its existence. One of the   recurring themes of NDEs is the person who is in contact with the Spirits, tell   them that they wish to stay and not return to their life on earth, but are in   the end told, 'You must go back. It is not your time yet.' Hannah F. who wrote   about her NDE in April, 2014, supplies a perfect example. She describes the   wonderment, the beauty, and the vague memories of a conversation;

'There was a waterfall in front of us and beautiful   scenery. I would probably call it a beautiful garden however everything was   natural. I remember a feeling of love and reassurance. I don't remember what the   man was telling me about but he was speaking for a long time. It felt like   hours. I remember being shocked at a few things he said. &nbsp;

Now, in my experience I was ME but i wasn't &quot;HANNAH&quot;. I   knew myself but not as Hannah. I don't remember what was spoken but I remember   the feelings I felt. All I remember him saying was, &quot;it's time to go back now.&quot;   I looked at him puzzled (Not remembering earth) and then felt a pain on my   shoulder. When I felt the pain I began to travel through a tunnel. As I went   down the tunnel I could see images of my life and my life on earth came back to   me.'[2]

Notice the fuzzy knowledge of the exact   events, a feeling of an interesting conversation, a good time, but a   recollection as if you drank just a little too much and couldn't remember the   great bar conversation you had last night. The one certainty, was that a better   place was visited. Therefore, if we actually are a spirit, why aren't we allowed   memories of our past lives, on earth and in the Spirit world?

&nbsp;

Forgetfulness of the   Past - Why?

&nbsp;

When we reincarnate, we are not allowed to   remember our past lives or our time as a spirit on earth. To determine why this   is so, let's examine a case of a spirit who was reincarnated with the ability to   remember past lives. In the book, The   Messengers, psychographed by Francisco C. Xavier, dictated to him by the   spirit Andre Luiz, Andre encounters a person who completely failed in their   mission on earth. Joel, the spirit who laments his failure, tells Andre;

'My failure was not because of too much sensitivity, but   because of how I used it. As I understand now, God allows some individuals to   have superior sensitivity so they can use it as a tool, a kind of powerful   magnifying lens that helps them see the right course of life for themselves and   others they are supposed to help. This extra sensitivity can help to perceive   life's path, identify dangers and shortcuts, and clearly see obstacles. Instead   of using the gift in that way, all I did was use it to satisfy my warped   curiosity about myself.'

'To fulfill my role of helping others, my expanded   perception included the ability to remember my past lives. Most people can't   recall their own past, and for good reason. In my case, I was supposed to use   that knowledge in my service to help others, not to obsess about it, and that's   where I failed.'

'I began to obsess about a previous existence in which I   has been Monsignor Alejandre Pizarro who participated in the last years of the   cruel Spanish Inquisition. That's when I started misusing the spiritual   magnifying lens I told you about. The excitement of the sensations was   inebriating ' it was as if I was addicted to drugs or alcohol ' and I neglected   all of my previously accepted responsibilities.'

'I started spending all of my time trying to locate the   people who had been my companions during my time centuries before as a religious   man. I forced myself to find each and every one of them in space and time,   reconstituting their biographical sketches, completely ignoring the work I was   supposed to do.'[3]

'So I spent my life in this fashion ' going from revelation   to revelation, sensation to sensation. I, who had reincarnated with the unusual   ability to remember in order to be useful transformed my gift into a tool of   addiction. I'd thrown away an opportunity to redeem myself, and I lived tortured   by intermittent bouts of hallucination. The misuse of my sensitivity generated   an imbalance in my mind so that I became painfully unstable.'[4]

A perfect example of what could happen when   we know too much and are unable to focus on what we need to learn. Imagine   sitting in a classroom, with the TV blaring, showing you scenes from your   previous existence while at the same time attempting to comprehend the basic   facts of Algebra. One could not possess the mental force to concentrate on that   valuable lesson, especially if you had had some type of mathematics background   before and tried to merge it with what you are learning at the present time. Not   only would you reject parts of what were offered to you, but you would be   exasperated with having to sit through this lecture again, even though spaced   out by hundreds of years.

There are other reasons as well, in  The Gospel According to Spiritism, it   says, 'A spirit is frequently reborn into the same environment in which it has   already lived, and finds itself in relationships with the same individuals in   order to repair the evil it did to them. If it were to recognize in them those   whom it used to hate, perhaps its hatred would reawaken. In any case, it would   feel humiliated in the presence of those it offended.'[5]      Therefore, the need to forget the past, not only in our present life, but from   other lives is a necessity to be able to learn and to forgive others and to grow   spiritually.

But, are we a completely blank slate,   always starting over? No, for again in The   Gospel According to Spiritism, we are told, 'God has given us for our   advancement precisely what is necessary and what will be enough for us: the   voice of conscience and our instinctive tendencies, taking from us   what could harm us.'[6]    The   underlines are mine. These are the two main levers of our behavior. If our   conscience (or instinct) tells us something is wrong, I suggest it is doing so   with the wisdom of hundreds, if not thousands, of years of experience behind it.

Hence, we do retain traces of our past   lives, which are very important parts of our daily life. We take our instincts   and our conscience for granted, not realizing that we have been developing these   tools for multiple lives. Ponder your thoughts as you determine the best course   of action and feel what is the right thing to do, as opposed to the action that   may bring you immediate gratification, understand that your action will have   consequences far in the future. Do you really want that extra cash now, but pay   for a severe trial in the future, so you will learn, down to the foundation of   your heart, that you should always do the right thing? Because, according to   Spiritism, you will be sent on trials, programmed to improve your deficiencies,   until you fully absorb the intended lesson. And you thought childhood was tough!

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

Author:

Brian Foster has a BSCS degree and a MBA. He has worked in R&amp;D   for medical device corporations and in IT for large financial institutions.   Brian Foster has a blog at     www.nwspiritism.com .    Works Cited

Kardec, A. (2008). The Gospel   According to Spiritism. Brasilia (DF): International Spiritist Council.

Kardec, A. (2010). The   Spirits Book. Guildford, UK: White Crow Books.

NDERF. (2014, March 14).   Near Death Experience Research Foundation. Retrieved from www.nderf.org:   https://www.nderf.org/

Xavier, F. C. (2008). The   Messengers. Philadelphia, PA: Allan Kardec Educational Society.

Xavier, F. C. (2011).   Between Heaven and Earth. Brasilia (DF), Brazil: International Spiritist   Council.

&nbsp;        				
  				  				

  								[[1]   ]   								XAVIER, Francisco C. Between Heaven and Earth,   								EDICEI, p. 79  				  				

  								[[2]   ]   								nderf.org, Individual NDE experiences:, n.d.,   								https://www.nderf.org/Archives/NDERF_NDEs.html   								(accessed May 16, 2014)   				  				

  								[[3]   ]   								XAVIER, Francisco C. The Messengers, Allan   								Kardec Educational Society, p. 52  				  				

  								[[4]   ]   								XAVIER, Francisco C. The Messengers, Allan   								Kardec Educational Society, p. 53  				  				

  								[[5]   ]   								KARDEC, Allan The Gospel According to Spiritism,   								EDICEI, Chap. V, Item 11, p. 103  				  				

  								[[6]   ]   								KARDEC, Allan The Gospel According to Spiritism,   								EDICEI, Chap. V, Item 11, p. 103

&nbsp;    </body>  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/NDERF/Articles/future_memories.htm