{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/NDERF\/Articles\/science_eternal_life.pdf","mytitle":"<span class=\"color_dark d_inline_b\"><span class=\"icon_wrap_size_0 circle color_grey_light_5 d_block tr_inherit f_left\"><i class=\"icon-angle-right\"><\/i><\/span>Scientific Explanation for Eternal Life<\/span>","mylang":"de"}
A SCIENTIFIC EXPLANATION FOR ETERNAL LIFE
By Rev. Dr. Timothy W. Ehrlich
The boldest claim in the Bible, one which potentially affects every one of us, is the
promise that anyone can have and will be given eternal life with God in heaven as a
result of our faith God and in His son Jesus Christ. The apostle Paul put it succinctly:
“For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life through Christ Jesus
our Lord” (Romans 6:23). It is not an exaggeration to say that the promise of eternal life
is the key doctrine on which the entire Christian religion depends. If you are a Christian
you are likely to have accepted the promise of eternal life as part of your faith and trust in
God. If you are not a Christian or a believer in God you are likely to reject even the
premise of this article, that there can be a scientific explanation for eternal life, as being
equal to a scientific explanation for the tooth fairy or the Easter Bunny.1
The objective
reality is that quantum physics and clinical research into near death experiences do
provide a plausible scientific explanation for how eternal life is possible.
1. Research into near death experiences. A number of books and articles have been
written in recent years of reports of many people who have had near death experiences,
including many who reported that they were able to visit heaven temporarily before
being revived. The most consequential book on near death experiences EVIDENCE OF
THE AFTERLIFE was written by a medical doctor, Jeffrey Long, who became so
fascinated with the near death phenomenon that he has collected reports of the
experiences of over 5,000 people.2
The evidence produced by the work of Dr. Long in
analyzing these near death experiences (including over 250 from countries around the
world) is absolutely objective and conclusive that conscious existence after physical life
ends is a genuine phenomenon. We can call this post-death conscious existence a
spiritual existence (for lack of a better term). This strong anecdotal evidence from people
around the world no doubt helps explain why every major religion around the world
believes in an afterlife in some form.
What Dr. Long discovered that is so important to our understanding of eternal life is not
just that there is a conscious existence that persists after physical death, but also that the
persons who experience leaving their bodies do not leave behind their identity or their
memories of their life. The belief that we retain our identity and memories in a spiritual
existence after death is an essential Christian belief, something that Jesus spoke of often
and promised his believers (Luke 23:43, John 3:16). Recent discoveries in quantum
physics provide a scientific basis to explain the apparent reality that a conscious self-
aware spiritual existence continues on after the physical life has come to an end.
1
I want to speak briefly to those who don’t believe in the reality of the existence God or eternal life. I promise you
this: if you can be intellectually honest and open minded, and if you will do a little research, you will not have to
scratch very deep to find an abundance of convincing, scientifically based evidence for the existence of God. I
recommend that you read these three books Gerald L. Schroeder’s book Genesis and the Big Bang; Francis Collins’
book, The Language of God; and Michael Guillien’s book Believing is Seeing. I urge you to particularly look into
the calculations of the odds that the universe as we know it could have randomly come into existence. Einstein and
other physicists have concluded that the odds are so high against a random creation (approximately 1 in ten times a
billion times a billion; that is 10 followed by 20 zeros) that they indicate the intervention of a higher intelligent
creative power. The odds were determined based on the relative proportions of the strength of four forces that
govern every atom in the universe: gravity, discovered in 1687; electromagnetic force, discovered in 1814; weak
nuclear force, discovered in 1933; and strong nuclear force, described for the first time in 1935.
2
Long, Jeffrey with Paul Perry. EVIDENCE OF THE AFTERLIFE, Harper Collins e-books.
www.harpercollinsebooks.com Kindle Edition pg. 1.
2. Discoveries from quantum physics show human consciousness functions on a
quantum level
a. The double slit experiment. There are two sets of physics discoveries that are keys to
understanding the physiology of eternal life: the double slit experiment and quantum
entanglement. The double slit experiment predates the discovery of physics; it was first
performed in 1808 as a demonstration of the wave behavior of light. In 1927 scientists
demonstrated that electrons show the same behavior, which was later extended to atoms
and molecules.3
For the uninitiated in the modern version of the double slit experiment
photons or electrons are fired from a beam gun towards a flat opaque surface into which
two equal sized parallel slits have been carved allowing either photons or electrons to
pass through one or the other. As shown below a screen behind the slits measures which
slit the photons or electrons passed through.
This experiment showed that light can be both a wave and a particle (photons) at the
same time and so can electrons or atoms. This type of dual existence at the quantum
(atomic and subatomic) level as both a wave and a particle is called superposition. There
are two things that are important to us concerning eternal life from the double slit
experiment: first is that a quantum can exist simultaneously both as physical matter and
as wave.4
Second the experiment also unintentionally showed or proved measurably and
scientifically indisputably that there is something called “the observer effect.” The
observer effect was discovered by the realization that evidence showed that when a
person observes or measures the flow of photons or electrons from the beam gun through
the slot onto the screen their observation or measurement during the experiment changes
the flow of the particles or photons in measurable ways.5 According to Wikipedia,
“While the effects of observation are often negligible, the object still experiences a
change. This effect can be found in many domains of physics…”6
What is it about the observation of a flow of electrons, atoms or photons by a human
being that alters the state of the particle or wave (photons being observed are forced to
behave like particles instead of waves)? Physicists don’t like the mystery, they prefer to
think of the observer effect as something we don’t yet understand; but as they don’t have
an explanation for it they refer to the observer effect as a “the subatomic particle
paradox.” Obviously since human consciousness can alter the flow of photons, electrons,
atoms, and even molecules on a quantum level then human consciousness must also
function on a quantum level. Nobel Prize laureate physicist Roger Penrose rejects the
3
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Double-slit_experiment. Sourced 9/15/22.
4
A quantum or quanta is the minimum amount of any physical entity (physical property) involved in
an interaction.
5 Vaidyanathan, Venkatesh. What Is The Observer Effect In Quantum Mechanics? Updated On: 8 Jul 2022
https://www.scienceabc.com/pure-sciences/observer-effect-quantum-mechanics.html
6
Wikipedia. Double Slit Experiment. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Double-slit_experiment. Sourced
9/14/22.
classical explanation that our consciousness is purely the result of the couplings of
neuronal clusters and their incessant firings. He and a number of other physicists believe
that human consciousness functions as a sort of superposition both as a physical function
of neurons and synapses, and at the same time as a quantum process occurring within the
microtubules that provide structure to the neurons.7
b. Quantum entanglement. Another aspect of physics that contributes to our
understanding of the mechanics of eternal life is quantum entanglement. The 2022 Nobel
prize for physics went to Alain Aspect, John F. Clauser and Anton Zeilinger for
quantumly entangled photons, which paved the way for new technology using quantumly
entangled particles. Quantum entanglement is another scientific “paradox:” scientists
understand that it works and now how to use it but they don’t understand what causes it.
According to Einstein’s theory of special relativity nothing in the universe can travel
faster than the speed of light; but experiments have proven (and modern manufacturing is
already using the experimental technology) that two atomic or subatomic particles, such
as photons or electrons can become linked or entangled in such a way that what happens
to one happens to the other instantly even though they are separated by great distances.
The most recent experiments have pushed the speed of quantum entangled interaction to
at least 10,000 times faster than the speed of light!8
Einstein was aware that there was a paradox he could not explain that his theory of
relativity which proved mathematically that nothing (no matter or waves) can travel
faster than the speed of light, could not explain how entangled particles can communicate
instantly regardless of the distance they are separated. He referred to quantum
entanglement as ‘spooky action at a distance’ and he reluctantly admitted that its
existence showed that his physics theories were incomplete. Quantum entanglement has
been demonstrated experimentally with photons, neutrinos, electrons, molecules and
even small diamonds.9
Today, even though scientists are experimenting with entangling
particles to see if they can create an instant communication device using entangled
photons they have no scientific explanation for quantum entanglement.
The fact that atomic particles can be entangled and communicate instantly across the
universe provides a possible scientific explanation for a spiritual phenomenon that
millions of Christians over the last 20 centuries have experienced through their prayers:
that God who is over all things to the end of the nearly infinite universe never-the-less
hears our prayers instantly and responds immediately. 10
c. The unity between the scientific and anecdotal evidence. So, what ties these
discoveries of physics together with Dr. Long’s research? We know that human
consciousness functions in a superposition (simultaneous) way both as the functioning of
our physical brain and as a quantum or spiritual function. A typical experience of those
who have a near death event is that they can see their physical body below them and
observe the work of medical staffs to attempt to revive them; many also report that at a
7 Glesler, Marcelo. Can quantum mechanics explain consciousness? https://bigthink.com/13-8/quantum-
consciousness-2/. November 24, 2021.
8 Wikipedia. Quantum Entanglement. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_entanglement#cite_note-4.
Sourced August 23, 2022.
9
Ibid. cite_note-17.
10
In the Christian understanding God created all things, is in and through all things, holds all things
together.
point in the experience they enter a tunnel of light and proceed up into heaven where they
remain until they are revived, often against their wishes. What seems apparent then, and
what I am proposing is that the consciousness which survives our physical life that Dr.
Long’s work clearly demonstrates is indeed what Christians refer to as the human soul.
The human brain is stunningly complex: we have 86 billion neurons in our brains with
100 trillion connecting synapses!11
The combination of evidence of the reality of
consciousness surviving clinical death together with the apparent quantum functioning of
the brain demonstrated by the observer effect show that consciousness can exist
simultaneously, in two ways at once, both as electronic impulses moving through
neurons and synapses in physical locations in the brain and as a spiritual or quantum
consciousness independent of the physical brain but linked to it. It would seem then that
the soul or the quantum functioning of the brain is entangled with our memories and
identity of the physical brain until that brain dies at which time the quantum
consciousness or soul becomes independent from the physical brain.
To summarize the scientific evidence: There is an undeniable link between the soul or
spiritual aspect of our consciousness and the physical mind, demonstrated by Dr. Long.
The observer effect demonstrates that human consciousness is able to function on a
quantum level. The anecdotal but still valid evidence of the experience of countless
millions of living and past Christians is that in faith the soul of a man or woman can
become entangled with the mind of God; such that through prayer we realize that we
have been heard by God, and, through observation of a perceivable effect, we realize that
our communication towards God (prayer) has been responded to. This experiential
evidence though anecdotal is none-the-less compelling because the experience of being
heard by God and responded to by God in a tangible way is and has been described in the
same terms by millions of people from all nations, races, ages, and social conditions, past
and present. This demonstrates that the human mind (albeit on a quantum level) can
become entangled with the mind of God. Jesus said: “God is spirit” (John 4:24). It is the
entanglement between the quantum or spiritual mind of human (the soul) and the mind of
God that provides a scientific explanation for the “how” of eternal life.
3. How Three key Biblically based theological understandings about eternal life
coincide with quantum theory
A. Where the eternal soul comes from. In the Bible both soul and spirit are given by
God (Genesis 2:7; Ecclesiastes 12:7). Somewhat confusingly both Old and New
Testaments use the words soul and spirit somewhat interchangeably. The ancient Jewish
understanding of soul was that it is the life force found in every person and all living
creatures.12
In the Old Testament the Hebrew word for soul, nephesh, is from the word
naphash - to breathe, was used primarily as a term both for creatures (Genesis 1:21, 2:19,
9:15; Leviticus 11:46) and for man (Genesis 2:7); a soul is everything that “has breath.”
The Old Testament uses the word ‘spirit’ (ruach) in ways that are closer to the modern
understanding of the soul. The same is true in the New Testament, in Greek (the
language in which the New Testament was written) the word for soul, psyche, in general
terms is used to represent every living being (Acts 20:10 Rev. 8:9), and spirit (pneuma)
is primarily used as the spiritual essence of a person which survives physical death
(Matthew 10:28; Mark 8:36). So in both testaments human beings are seen as having the
11
Allen Institute. 5 Unsolved Mysteries About The Brain. https://alleninstitute.org/what-we-do/brain-
science/ March 14, 2019.
12
Strong. James. The New Strong’s Expanded Exhausted Concordance of the Bible. Thomas Nelson
Publishers, Nashville. 2001. Hebrew Dictionary pg. 189.
same animating life force or soul that all creatures have, and a spiritual essence seen as
the potentially eternal substance of a person which lives on after death (Ecclesiastes
3:18-21).
b. How we receive eternal life - what happens within us. In scripture it is the decision
to commit to the path of goodness (righteousness), through faith that activates the soul
for eternal life. Paul writes:
Romans 8:1-2, 6, 10 (NLT) So now there is no condemnation for those
who belong to Christ Jesus. 2
And because you belong to him, the power
of the life-giving Spirit has freed you from the power of sin that leads to
death…6
So letting your sinful nature control your mind leads to death. But
letting the Spirit control your mind leads to life and peace…10
And Christ
lives within you, so even though your body will die because of sin, the
Spirit gives you life because you have been made right with God.
To belong to Christ means that a person has made a commitment not just to believe but
to obey Jesus’ teachings. This passage describes the theological concept behind the term
‘saved;’ that there is a moment in which a person makes a decision with their conscious
physical mind which then instantaneously results in a miracle equipping the soul to live
eternally with God.
Paul writes: “If you openly declare that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God
raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For it is by believing in your heart that you
are made right with God, and it is by openly declaring your faith that you are saved”
(Romans 10:9-10). These two passages relate the importance of the mind / soul
connection. It is through faith that we come to have the Spirit of God living in us; so
quantum entanglement between the spirit / mind of God and the human mind happens
through faith.
The apostle Paul wrote: “The free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord”
(Romans 6:23). But Jesus said it is not easy to receive eternal life: “But the gateway to
life is very narrow and the road is difficult, and only a few ever find it” (Matthew 7:14).
This may sound a little confusing: Paul described eternal life as a free gift, but Jesus said
the road is difficult; how do we reconcile these two seemingly opposing concepts?
Michelangelo was asked how he was able to carve the beautiful statue of David; he
replied: “The sculpture is already complete within the marble block, before I start my
work. It is already there, I just have to chisel away the superfluous material.”
Michelangelo made it sound easy but obviously the practice of sculpting is extremely
difficult. For those born and raised in the faith accepting faith in God and Jesus is not a
difficult process, but for those raised without any faith the road to faith may be long and
difficult, and the primary obstacles and difficulties will be the doubts and questions in
their own minds.
Modern psychological studies have shown that the brains of believers and non-believers
actually work differently.13
So coming to faith requires an almost rewiring of the brain to
take the mind from closed to God using one part of the brain to open using another. The
apostle Paul, who was an apt observer of human psychology, wrote (Romans 12:2 TEV):
13
Wenk, Gary. The Brains of Believers and Non-Believers Work Differently. Psychology Today.
https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/your-brain-food/202205/the-brains-believers-and-non-
believers-work-differently. Posted May 11 2022.
Do not conform yourselves to the standards of this world, but let God
transform you inwardly by a complete change of your mind. Then you
will be able to know the will of God—what is good and is pleasing to him
and is perfect.
For those of us who are left brain dominant, as I am, changing our mind from non-belief
to belief can be a years-long and difficult passage. Scientific minded people emphasize
logic and reason, we believe only in what we can observe and scientifically measure. I
struggled for years even after becoming a pastor with times when logical thoughts or
questions of skeptics would lead to doubts and questions that took me away from faith.
The good news for those who are complete skeptics and living in a spiritual desert of
questions and doubts, as I was, all you need to have is an open mind and an intense desire
to know the truth whatever it may be. The promise given in the Bible (Jeremiah 29:13,
Matthew 7:7), and born out by generations of believers is that if you seek the truth about
God you will find the truth. The difficult part of finding proof of the reality of God for
yourself (though thankfully not as impossible as learning to sculpt like Michelangelo) is
that the open mind also requires those who seek God to seek with all their heart, and all
of our heart is much deeper and more comprehensive than people imagine. A truly open
mind includes a complete willingness follow the truth wherever it leads including
therefore a willingness to respond to ones discovery of the reality of God with action, i.e
obey God.
c. The Catalyzing Agent is Love. Jesus said, “The most important commandment is
this: ‘Listen, O Israel! The Lord our God is the one and only Lord. And you must love
the Lord your God with all your heart, all your soul, all your mind, and all your
strength’” (Mark 12:29-30). The catalyzing agent in the quantum transformation of the
mind / soul is love. Think of the transformation of the soul from mortal to eternal as a
chemical reaction: the mind is the beaker, the setting for the transformation of the soul;
the decision made with the mind to accept faith in God and all that goes with belonging
to God is the key ingredient; and the catalyzing agent, the force behind the
transformation, is love. The quantum nature of God is love.
The apostle John gave some of the clearest statements about the activating power of love:
1 John 4:8 Dear friends, let us continue to love one another, for love
comes from God. Anyone who loves is a child of God and knows God.
1 John 4:16-17 We know how much God loves us, and we have put our
trust in his love. God is love, and all who live in love live in God, and God
lives in them. And as we live in God, our love grows more perfect. So we
will not be afraid on the day of judgment, but we can face him with
confidence because we live like Jesus here in this world.
As we live in love we live in God; our love is what enables our mind / soul to become
quantumly entangled with the divine mind of God. Interestingly Dr. Long identified
feelings of intense love as being one of the most commonly experienced features of a
near death experiences. Jesus repeatedly emphasized the importance of love: in the
Sermon on the Mount (Matthew 5:43-46; 10:37; 22:37; Mark 12:30-31). The person who
has not got a truly loving heart is “dead” according to John, i.e. will not have eternal life
(1 John 3:14).
Neither Dr. Long’s near death research nor quantum physics can prove the reality of
heaven or eternal life; but Dr. Long’s research has proven that a spiritual existence in
which we retain our identity and memories can survive our physical death, and quantum
physics demonstrates how that is scientifically possible.
Copyright 2022 by Timothy W. Ehrlich
All rights reserved. No part of this article may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by
any means electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, or by any information
storage and retrieval system, without permission in writing from the author. twehrlich@aol.com
