{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/NDERF\/Articles\/resource_list_deanna.htm","mytitle":"Cardiac Arrest and the Near Death Experience by Barbara Mango","mylang":"de"}
          	Cardiac Arrest and the Near Death Experience by Barbara Mango                     	            		

NDE Resource List    
  Home Page  Current NDEs  Share NDE</span>     	</tr>

  By Deanna M Kessler-Drinkar     AFTERLIFE &amp; NEAR-DEATH STUDIES RESEARCH LIST (The New Frontier)     
  
  Noted researchers in the afterlife and near-death arenas.   (Please google each of   these individuals for literature and websites. And what astounds me is the fact   that the independent research of each of these individuals is pointing us to   parallel conclusions.) 
  
     What is ‘real’ is consistently observed. –Jeffrey Long       
  
        Eben Alexander, MD, neurosurgeon   
        Laurin Bellg, MD   
  Stafford Betty, Ph.D. 
  Delores Cannon, hypnotherapist 
  Edgar Cayce 
  Sandra   Champlain, acclaimed afterlife researcher 
  Robert Davis, Ph.D., neuroscientist   
  Albert Einstein, physicist 
  Peter Fenwick, neuropsychiatrist and afterlife &amp; NDE   researcher 
  Kathy Forti, clinical psychologist 
  Suzanne Giesemann, Navy Commander   and Commanding Officer, and acclaimed medium 
  Bruce Greyson, MD 
  Roberta Grimes,   Biblical scholar, acclaimed afterlife researcher, and attorney 
  Bill &amp; Judy Gugenheim, authors 
  Esther (Abraham) Hicks, channel 
  Roy L Hill, Psy.D. 
  R Craig   Hogan, Ph.D 
  Alan Ross Hugenot, Ph.D 
  Karl Jung, Psychiatrist and NDEr 
  Elisabeth Kubler-Ross,   MD 
  Jeffrey Long, MD &amp; Jody Long (attorney) and founders of NDERF (Near-Death   Experience Research Foundation) 
  Raymond Moody, the grandfather of NDE research   
  Melvin Morse, MD 
  Mary C Neal, MD 
  Michael Newton, Ph.D. 
  Bob Olson, private   investigator 
  Sam Parnia, MD 
  Mark R Pitstick, MA, DC, and acclaimed afterlife   researcher 
  Max Planck, German physicist and the grandfather of quantum physics   research 
  Herb Puryear, researcher 
  Dean Radin, Ph.D. 
  Kenneth Ring, Ph.D. 
  Penny Sartori, nurse, Ph.D. 
  Gary E   Schwartz, Ph.D., acclaimed afterlife researcher 
  Robert Schwartz 
  Paul Selig,   channel 
  Bernie Siegel, MD 
  Michael Singer, channel, medium, and author 
  Ian   Stevenson, the grandfather of the phenomena of reincarnation research 
  Anne   Strieber, NDEer and acclaimed afterlife researcher 
  David Sunfellow, NDE   researcher and founder of NHNE (NewHeavenNewEarth) website 
  Emanuel Swedenborg,   scientist, theologian, and NDEer 
  Nikola Tesla, physicist 
  Eckhart Tolle,   spiritual teacher 
  Jim B Tucker, MD, past-life/reincarnation/cyclical life   researcher 
        Pim Van Lommel, MD 
  James Van Praagh, author 
  Brian L Weiss, MD 
  Lee   Whiting, Dr. of Ministry and host of NDE Radio 
  Kevin Williams, NDE researcher   and founder of Near-Death Experiences and the Afterlife website 
  Susanne Wilson,   acclaimed medium 
  Victor (attorney) &amp; Wendy (psychologist) Zammit, acclaimed   afterlife researchers 
       
  
  Websites –     
  
  Afterlife.pro 
  Afterlifedata.com 
  Afterlifelibrary.com 
  Afterlife Research &amp;   Education Institute, Inc. (AREI) 
  AfterlifeStudies.org 
  Eternea.org (Combining   Science &amp; Religion) 
  EvidenceofEternity.com 
  Gaia.com 
  GreaterRealityLiving.com   
  HelpingParentsHeal.org NDEStories.org 
  Near-Death Experiences and the Afterlife   (Kevin Williams) 
  Near-Death Experience Research Foundation (NDERF – Jeffrey   Long) 
  NearDeath.com 
  NearDeathWisdom.com 
  New Heaven New Earth (NHNE – David Sunfellow) 
  RecoveryfromReligion.org 
  Roberta Grimes Homepage 
  SeeingtheLight.org   
  Soulproof.com 
  WeDontDie.com 
  
   Podcasts --   
  
  Afterlife TV --hosted by Bob Olson 
  Anthony Chene Productions --hosted by Anthony   Chene 
  Awake 2 Oneness --hosted by Caroline Chang 
  Coast-to-Coast Radio --hosted   by George Noory 
  Consciousness TV --hosted by Iain McNay 
  Dreamworks7 Radio 
  I’m   Spiritual Dammit --hosted by Jenniffer Weigel 
  LifeonPurposeShow.com 
  Mind   Power/Law of Attraction YouTube Videos --hosted by Angelo Rodriguez 
  NDE   Conversations --hosted by Tricia Barker 
  NDE Podcast --hosted by Chaz Hatheway 
  Near-Death Experience Podcast - hosted by John Meser
  NDE Radio sponsored by IANDs --hosted by Lee Whiting 
  Positive Head Podcast –   Brandon Beachum (for the purpose of exploring the ultimate nature of reality)   
  Seek Reality Radio --hosted by Roberta Grimes 
  Skeptiko (Science at the Tipping   Point) --hosted by Alex Tsakiris (#1 podcast for consciousness exploration   research) 
  Soul Proof Radio --hosted by Mark Pitstick 
  Soul Stories Spiritual   Awakening Radio --hosted by James Bean 
  The Moore Show --hosted by Kevin Moore   
  Thinking Allowed --hosted by Jeffrey Mishlove 
  We Don’t Die Radio --hosted by   Sandra Champlain (#1 afterlife exploration podcast) 
  Where is My Mind --Mark Gober 
  
   Organizations --   
  
  Afterlife Evidence International Foundation 
  AREI (Afterlife Research and   Education, Inc.) 
  Foundation for Afterlife Research 
  Greater Reality Living Groups   (prototype for spiritual community of the future) 
  IANDS (International   Association for Near-Death Studies) 
  International Foundation for Survival   Research (Callum Cooper, Ph.D.) 
  IONS (Institute of Noetic Sciences) 
  NDERF   (Near-Death Experience Research Foundation) 
  NHNE (NewHeavenNewEarth) 
  IAC (The   International Academy of Consciousness) 
  The Newton Institute 
  
       Facebook Groups –   
  
  Afterlife Research and Education Discussion Group 
  Human Consciousness Project   
  International Academy of Consciousness (IAC) 
  Jesus and the Near-Death Experience  
  LDS Near-Death Experience Discussion Group 
  Near-Death Experience Discussion   Group 
  Near-Death Experience Integration Support 
  Near-Death Experience Research   Foundation 
  Near-Death Experience Study &amp; Support Group 
  Near-Death Experiences   
  Near-Death Experiences and the Afterlife 
  Near-Death Experiences and Testimonies   
  Near-Death Experiences Bring Us Together 
  Near-Death Experiences – The Afterlife   and Beyond 
  Near-Death Experiences – Think Heaven Now 
  Our Near-Death Experiences   and Beyond 
  Past Life Regression: Journey of Souls Group 
  Proof of Life After   Death 
  Quantum Physics Forum 
  We Don’t Die 
  What Near-Death Experiences Teach Us   About Life, God, and Everything Else 
  
  
   Must-read books –   
  
  A Course in Miracles --Helen Schucman 
  A Lawyer Presents the Evidence for the   Afterlife --Victor &amp; Wendy Zammit 
  A New Earth: Awakening Your Life’s Purpose   --Eckhart Tolle 
  An End to Upside Down Thinking: Dispelling the Myth that the   Brain Produces Consciousness --Mark Gober 
  Answers About the Afterlife: A Private   Investigator’s 15-Year Research Unlocks the Mysteries of Life After Death --Bob   Olson 
  Closer to the Light --Melvin Morse 
  Consciousness Continues --Heather   Dominguez 
  Death is Not the End --Ines Beyer 
  Did Jesus Exist? The Historical   Argument for Jesus of Nazareth --Bart D Ehrman 
  Dying to Be Me --Anita Moorjani 
  Dying to Wake Up --Rajiv Parti 
  Embraced by the Light --Bettie J Eadie 
  Evidence   of Eternity --Mark Anthony 
  Evidence of the Afterlife: The Science of Near-Death   Experiences --Jeffrey Long 
  Excavating Jesus -- Crossan &amp; Reed 
  Finding the   Elephant: Subspace, the Mega-Phenomenon --David Burfoot 
  Glimpses of Eternity   --Raymond Moody 
  God and the Afterlife --Jeffrey Long 
  Greater Reality   Living—Integrating the Evidence for Eternal Consciousness Into Your Daily Life   --Mark R Pitstick and Gary E Schwartz 
  Health Revelations from Heaven and Earth   --Tommy Rosa and Stephen Sinatra, MD 
  Hello from Heaven --Bill &amp; Judy Gugenheim 
  How Jesus Became God: The Exaltation of a Jewish Preacher from Galilee --Bart D   Ehrman 
  I Knew Their Hearts and Knowing --Jeffery Olsen 
  Journey of Souls   --Michael Newton 
  Jesus and the Near-Death Experience: Testimonies of the Ascended Christ --Roy L   Hill 
  Lessons from the Light --Kenneth Ring 
  Liberating Jesus --Roberta Grimes   
  Life After Death --Tom Harper 
  Life After Death: An Analysis of the Evidence   --Robert Davis 
  Life After Life --Raymond Moody 
  Life Beyond Here --Melinda Lyons   
  Life in the Afterlife --Melinda Lyons 
  Living in a Mindful Universe --Eben   Alexander 
  Living in a Quantum Reality: Using Quantum Physics and Psychology to   Embrace Your Higher Consciousness --Valerie Varan 
  Love the Person You’re With:   Life-Changing Insights from the Most Compelling Near-Death Experiences Ever   Recorded – David Sunfellow 
  God’s Fingerprints: Impressions of Near-Death   Experiences --Jody Long 
  Near Death in the ICU --Lauren Bellg 
  Nothing Better than Death   --Kevin Williams 
  On Life After Death --Elisabeth Kubler-Ross 
  Out of the Blue:   True-Life Experiences of Awakening, Revelation, and Transformation --Mary Terhune  
  Quantum Jumps --Cynthia Sue Larson 
  Parting Visions --Melvin Morse 
  Proof   of Heaven --Eben Alexander 
  Psychology and the Near-Death Experience --Roy L Hill   
  Real Magic: Ancient Wisdom, Modern Science, and a Guide to the Secret Power of   the Universe --Dean Radin 
  Return from Tomorrow --George G Ritchie 
  Revelations of   Divine Love --Julian of Norwich 
  Revelations of Profound Love --Ann Frances Ellis   
  Soul Proof – Mark R Pitstick 
  Surviving Death: A Journalist Investigates Evidence   for an Afterlife --Leslie Kean 
  The Afterlife Revolution --Anne &amp; Whitley   Strieber 
  The Afterlife Unveiled: What the Dead are Telling Us About Their World   --Stafford Betty 
  The Book of Truth --Paul Selig 
  The Case for Heaven: Near-Death   Experiences as Evidence of the Afterlife --Mally Cox-Chapman 
  The Everything   Guide to the Evidence of the Afterlife: A Scientific Approach to Proving the   Existence of Life After Death --Chuck Bergman and Joseph M Higgins 
  The Fun of   Dying --Roberta Grimes 
  The Fun of Growing Forever --Roberta Grimes 
  The Handbook   of Near-Death Experiences --Bruce Greyson, Janice Miner Holden, and Debbie James   
  The Hidden Truth: A Logical Path Through Compelling Evidence to Discover the   Nature of Reality and the Meaning of Life --Wade C Wilson 
  The Psyche as   Interaction: Electromagnetic Patterns of Conscious Energy --Manya J Long 
  The   Purpose of Life as Revealed by Near-Death Experiences from Around the World   --David Sunfellow 
  The Self Does Not Die --Anny Dirven, Rudolph Smit, and Titus   Rivas 
  The Survival of the Soul --Lisa Williams 
  The Transformative Power of   Near-Death Experiences --Penny Sartori 
  To Heaven and Back --Mary C Neal 
  We Don’t   Die: A Skeptic’s Discovery of Life After Death --Sandra Champlain 
  What is the Bible? How an Ancient Library of Poems, Letters, and Stories can   Transform the Way You Think About Everything --Rob Bell 
  What the Dead are Dying   to Teach Us --Claire Broad 
  Why Science Is Wrong … About Almost Everything --Alex Tsakiris 
  Your Eternal Self: Know Without a Doubt Who You Really Are --R Craig   Hogan 
  Your Life’s Plan for Abundance --Kim Michaels 
  Your Soul’s Calling:   Answering the Question, “Why Am I Here?” --Nancy Canning 
  Your Soul’s Gift: The   Healing Power of the Life You Planned --Robert Schwartz 
  Your Soul’s Plan:   Discovering the Real Meaning of the Life You Planned Before You Were Born   --Robert Schwartz 
  Your Soul’s Remembrance --Roy Mills 
  
  
  
       Yeshua ben Josef* (Jesus), who are you? –     
  
  Pamela Aaralyn, clear conduit channel (2015-17, Jesus/Yeshua) 
  David Bokovoy,   Ph.D. and Biblical scholar 
  Jamie Butler, medium 
  Bart D Ehrman, Ph.D. and   Biblical scholar 
  Roberta Grimes, lawyer, acclaimed afterlife researcher and   Biblical scholar 
  Roy Hill, Psy.D. 
  R Craig Hogan, Ph.D. and acclaimed afterlife   researcher 
  Pamela Kribbe, medium 
  Melinda Lyons, NDEer (2016, Melinda’s initial   NDE account and book only) 
  Emanuelle McIntosh, channel 
  Kim Michaels, channel and   medium (ref.: Ascended Masters/Jesus) 
  Tina Louise Spalding, channel 
  
   Quotes - *Google   search ‘Yeshua ben Josef’  
  
  ❖ I came not to offer you salvation but liberation. I   came as a revolutionary mind determined to wake up and then to help you do the   same: to transform the minds of those beings who existed in that time and   place—not to offer salvation that your churches teach, but a salvation of   freedom, a salvation of creativity, and a liberation of the mind. I came to   offer teachings to your world that had not been offered at that time--(simple,   basic) revolutionary teachings that cost me my life. 
  
  ❖ I did not come to save you   but to empower and liberate you within the knowledge of love. 
  
  ❖ Grace births   compassion, and compassion is the essence of love. Furthermore, creation is the   essence of joy. 
  
  ❖ My message is a message of unconditional love, not a message of   fear. And suffering is caused by you, by feeding your fears. 
  
  ❖ Please use your own   personal, loving guidance system instead of external forces or substances to   learn to face and heal your fears and your emotions. 
  
  ❖ The more you accept your   divinity, the less the darker force has influence in your world. 
  
  ❖ Humans do not   need forgiveness from me. They need forgiveness among themselves. 
  
  ❖ My purpose   was/is to spread these foundational teachings within your societies and, indeed,   within your minds. 
  
  ❖ This is what I did with my life. I trained my heart and mind   to evolve into an enlightened state. 
  
  ❖  I came into this world in the ordinary fashion, and I lived a very ordinary   life. I knew very early on in my human incarnation that I would be transforming   consciousness within your societies. My story in ‘your’ Bible has been altered,   added upon, changed, and elaborated throughout time. 
  
  ❖ Use ‘your’ scripture as a   supplement to Source within you. 
  
  ❖ God is not a being but a benevolent Source that   unconditionally loves and creates all: all-knowing, all-loving consciousness.   
  
  ❖ There are many paths back to Source. My way is but one way. 
  
  ❖ Serve no guru—not   even I. I am not the only one. There are many gurus or teachers sent to specific   peoples and cultures for the purpose of spreading spiritual truths and   enlightenment. 
  
  ❖ Never submit to another power which takes you from your direct   connection to Source. Separate me from your religion. This was never my intent.   
  
  ❖ I cherish the songs of your children within your churches. For in many of them   are taught my simple truths. 
  
  ❖ Baptism and other human-made rites of passage are   precious to God and honor choices of divinity within. 
  
  ❖ I taught my disciples that   your body is not who you are. You are not your body. 
  
  ❖ You chose your family in   the premortal existence, there in spirit form. You chose your family to access   the full expression of your life purpose as an incarnated being. 
  
  ❖ Your sexuality   is just as it should be. The feminine and masculine portions of your divinity   are exactly as they should be. Your sexuality is a part of you that should not   be pushed aside, unrecognized, hidden, buried, or shamed. You are the way you   are because God made you that way. 
  
  ❖ Atonement simply means your oneness, your   direct connection with the Divine: at-onement. No mediator is needed between you   and Source. For Source is within you. 
  
  ❖ Nothing external is required. You  are the   miracle . 
  
  ❖ It is not your duty to alter another’s connection with the Divine or to   ‘convert’ anyone. Source is within them to be able to do that and find their own   way back to Source within themselves. Simply love unconditionally. Simply ‘be’.   
  
  ❖ There are no shoulds or should nots, only alignments. Your purpose is your   free-will choice. 
  
  ❖ You are a being guided to your purpose by the compass of your   feeling self. Do not dismiss your feelings, your passions, and your desires as   self-indulgent. And do not suffer or sacrifice yourself upon the alter of   anything. Become a free being. Your mind and heart center are guided by your   feelings which connect you to Source. 
  
  ❖ Your purpose will arise with your compass   which is your heart center. Let your heart be your compass to the discovery of   your purpose. --Yeshua 
  
  [Please google “Jesus Historicity,” “The Formation of the Bible,” and “Biblical   Historicity” as well as “Virgin Birth Stories Throughout History.” Also, please   note that much of the biblical text came to us via oral tradition which got   passed down from generation to generation. Moreover, please note that the New   Testament texts are, in fact, oral histories which got passed down more than an   entire generation (50-70 years after the fact) before being recorded. In   addition, please note that the Bible as we know it today was edited,   extensively, by the Catholic Church during the time of the Council of Nicea.   And, before the formation of the Catholic Church, followers of Jesus referred to   their path as “The Way” (simply a way of life), using the 
  symbols of the dove (the Spirit of God) and the fish (fishers of men) to   symbolize their convictions to the teachings of Jesus. The symbol of the cross   and the theology of Jesus dying for one’s sins was canonized by the Catholic   Church. (“Take up your ‘cross’--aka, your ‘conviction’—and follow me.” Matthew   16:24) In regard to the Gospel of Mary (from the Gnostic texts of Nag Hammadi)   as interpreted by scholar Karen King, she “considers the work to provide an   intriguing glimpse into a kind of Christianity lost for almost fifteen hundred   years...[it] presents a radical interpretation of Jesus&#39; teachings as a path to   inner spiritual knowledge; it rejects His suffering and death as the path to   eternal life.” Reference Documentaries: Origins of the Bible, NOVA 2016; Who   Wrote the Bible, History Channel 2016; Gnostic Gospels, US Discovery Channel   2016; From Jesus to Christ: The First Christians, PBS 2017; The Real Jesus   Christ, Timeline 2018; Buried Secrets of the Bible hosted by Albert Lin,   National Geographic 2019. 
  
  ~My own ‘speculation’. On that historic eve in the Garden of Gethsemane when   Yeshua (Jesus) bled at every pore, ‘perhaps’ he was experiencing at that very   moment of linear earthly time, ‘H’umanity in its entirety on a cellular   level--both individually and collectively. (Ref.: I ‘Knew’ Their Hearts   --Jeffery Olsen)] 
  
  ❖  I truly believe that humanity is entering into a new age where science is   merging with spirituality and where over time and evolution, &#39;religion&#39; will be   a thing of the past--a respected part of historical antiquity. --Deanna 
  
  
   General Observations and Conclusions  made from a conglomerate of afterlife   researchers and NDEers 
  
  ❖ God is much bigger than any one religion. 
  
  ❖ All   creation is connected. Separation is an illusion. (Divinity and humanity are   inextricably connected.) 
  
  ❖ There are many realms in the world-to-come. Your soul   will simply gravitate to where you feel most comfortable--to a level of your own   soul’s evolution, and you will gravitate to other souls with whom you feel most   comfortable. And, yes, relationships are eternal--bound by unconditional love,   commitment and desire. (Logistics. This is not rocket science, people.) 
  
  ❖ The   condition of one’s soul will determine where you gravitate to in the next   realm—dictating your next-realm destination. 
  
  ❖ You and you alone can put   yourself into a state of ‘hell’. Also, “birds of a feather flock together”—even   in the lowest of vibrational states in the next realm. 
  
  ❖ Our beliefs shape our   realities, and our belief systems will affect our transitions into the next   realm. Spirit does not want to shock your system. 
  
  ❖ The Divine respects just   where you’re at and persuades you in ways that you can understand. 
  
  ❖ We each   judge ourselves (in company with our unconditionally loving spirit guides) and   no one else via the life review. 
  
  ❖ When your loved one passes, he or she can   actually be of more help to you in the next realm than in this realm--as there   your loved one can see your life’s situation, with all its intricacies, in   perfect clarity. 
  
  ❖ A majority of NDEers report that the NDE experience is more real, tangible,   and vivid than human existence (aka, hyper-reality). Many NDEers have said that   compared to the NDE that ‘this life’ is the ‘dream’—that earth life is a   re-creation of the greater reality. 
  
  ❖ Many NDEers report receiving an   all-knowing download upon their transitions—coming to an all-encompassing   knowledge regarding the intricacies of their lives and their connection to the   universe. 
  
  ❖ Many NDEers report that prayer (soul communication) is very real and   intrinsically important. 
  
  ❖ Many NDEers report that after having experienced the   NDE, they have a difficult time with the usage of electronics such as watches,   cell phones and the like. 
  
  ❖ Across the board, NDEers report that ‘the   experience’ freed them from any fear of death. 
  
  ❖ Across the board, NDEers report   that it’s not so much what you do in this life that matters as much as it is,   ‘who you are’ and ‘who you’ve become’ from the inside out. 
  
  ❖ In the   world-to-come, time is circular rather than linear. The majority of NDEers   report that time does not exist in the afterlife. 
  
  ❖ Spoiler alert! Reincarnation   happens!! (I know, mind-boggling for sure.) 
  
  ❖ Another spoiler alert! There is   ‘no sin’, per se. We all simply learn via the consequences of our own actions   and how those actions affect ourselves as well as our environment and those   around us. (In the next realm, actions are not looked upon as ‘right’ or   ‘wrong’--‘it’ simply ‘is’ … what it is.) 
  
  ❖ ‘Sin’ and ‘evil’ are not synonymous   in the next realm, and ‘evil’ is looked upon ‘there’ as an illness. 
  
  ❖ To the   Divine, oftentimes we humans appear as a bunch of beloved toddlers bonking each   other with styrofoam bats and air guns. 
  
  ❖ See the humor in life. Be a little   sac-relig from time-to-time. Lighten up, and enjoy life! 
  
  ❖ Duality is a   necessary component for growth, and “Satan” is not a being but a ‘role’ (a   metaphor). 
  
  ❖ Earthly baptism as well as other human-made rites of passage are   not necessary for one’s own spiritual growth although such confirmations of   commitment are beautiful to the Divine. 
  
  ❖ The beggar on the street corner could,   in fact, be a powerful eternal being come down to teach ‘you’ compassion. 
  
  ❖   Stronger souls choose tougher paths. Never judge anyone. 
  
  ❖ Every soul that   exists or that will ever exist is loved and cherished beyond human   comprehension—no matter where you are at in regard to your own spiritual   evolution. 
  
  ❖ We are all spiritual beings having a human experience here at   ‘earth school’. 
  
  ❖ Suicide: The Divine looks upon suicide like a loving parent   would look upon his/her child dropping out of school. The soul who chooses this   path will be met by compassionate, loving spirit guides to offer spiritual   healing and rejuvenation for the struggling soul to prepare him/her to get back   into the game of eternal life to accomplish the schooling needed for this soul’s   spiritual development and evolution. 
  
  ❖ Earth school is indeed just that, a   school—a grand experiment, a spiritual boot camp, a play, a movie, and a game   all wrapped up into one magnificent experience. And each of us are indeed its   students, teachers, actors, dreamers, coaches, and players. 
  
  ❖ The terms, ‘God’, ‘Source’, and ‘Universe’ are synonymous, and Jesus was/is   the ultimate human expression of God. 
  
  
   Noted Quotations –  
  
  ❖ Although of manmade construct, the religions of this world   are precious to the Divine and needed within societies for the purpose of   providing and promoting civility, values, and community. (There are many folds.)   –Bettie Eadie, NDEer 
  
  ❖ See the beauty and goodness to be found in a variety of   religions, ideologies, and philosophies. --Deanna ❖ I grew up as a Catholic, so   I suppose it was natural for me to meet Jesus in Heaven. Did God choose Jesus to   be my guide and teacher because Jesus is an important part of my faith? I   remember Jesus saying [to me in my NDE]: “Faith should not separate people, but   instead should bind them together to God. Belief systems, however diverse they   may seem, are all rooted in God’s love. All faiths should be respected and   honored.” His answer now makes sense to me. Perhaps people of different faiths   who experience near-death might meet a different teacher who aligns with their   belief systems. They might meet Mother Mary, angels, Moses, Abraham, Buddha,   Muhammad, Krishna, or other messengers of God’s choosing. This is extraordinary   insight. –Tommy Rosa, NDEer 
  
  ❖ Religion: a means, not an end. –Deanna 
  
  ❖ This is   my simple religion: There is no need for temples or complicated philosophy. The   brain and the heart comprise the temple and the ultimate philosophy is, simply,   kindness. –The Dalai Lama 
  
  ❖ I looked in temples, churches, and mosques. But I   found the Divine within my own heart. –Rumi 
  
  ❖ For the Lord seeth not as man   seeth; for man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the   heart. –1 Samuel 16:7 
  
  ❖ Religion is superficial when compared to the true love   of God. –Howard Storm, NDEer 
  
  ❖ Our world views have been shaped by our   communities. –Thomas Butler, NDEer 
  
  ❖ There are as many pathways to God as there   are people. Never judge another’s path. Consequently, the same spiritual path   cannot be recommended for all. –Pamela Aaralyn 
  
  ❖ More than teaching us what   happens when we die, the NDE teaches how to live, day-to-day. ... The study of   the NDE transcends religion and culture. –Kenneth Ring 
  
  ❖ A truth that we learn   from, from the NDE is that God is not limited to any one religion or even   religion at all. God cares only about a person’s heart, not a person’s religious   affiliation or church membership. The NDE reveals that the way to heaven is   through love because love is God. Love is not limited to only one religion or   culture because love is universal. This truth is too immense and profound to be   fully understood or embodied in any one religion. … This world is part of a   divine university of higher learning where learning to love is what life is all   about. … Love is the law of the universe. –Kevin Williams, NDEer 
  
  ❖ On the other   side, there is no Christian; there is no Muslim; there is no &#39;ism&#39;; there is no   gay; there is no black; there is no wealthy; there is no poor. There is only   spirit and unconditional love. All these categories that we&#39;ve been taught   century after century after century are not what you see on the other side. What   you see is spirit, and what you feel is the essence of love. –Peter Anthony,   NDEer 
  
  ❖ In truth, I’m not my body, my race, religion or other beliefs, and   neither is anyone else. The real self is infinite and much more powerful—a   complete and whole entity that is One with Universal energy. In fact, I am   Universal energy. –Anita Moorjani, NDEer 
  
  ❖ I have no need of creeds nor use for faiths. Positive knowledge has displaced   them both, and I have come to know there is no death; there are no dead. That   change is one step only in life’s progression, in the unceasing march of   evolution, in which neither identity nor individuality is lost. --Edward C   Randall, NDEer 
  
  ❖ Authority figures are really authority &#39;figurines&#39;, animated by   the power you have attributed to them. Just as you have invested that power, you   can withdraw it. No one and no thing has power over your soul, and neither do   they deserve it. It is tempting to complain about how greedy corporations are   taking over the world or how the corrupt government is ruining your life. You   will find plenty of people to agree with you which only reinforces the   projection and deepens the suffering it generates. Take back the power you have   given to authority figurines, and claim the authority of your creations. Then   your projections of evil and salvation will wither, and you will not need saving   because you already stand on holy ground.&quot; --Alan Cohen (takeaways on A Course   in Miracles) 
  
  ❖ NDE accounts, as a whole, usurp religious organizations’   authority. –Lee Whiting 
  
  ❖ Once you know who you really are, ‘being’ is enough.   You feel neither superior to anyone nor inferior to anyone, and you have no need   for approval because you’ve awakened to your own infinite worth. –Deepak Chopra   ❖ Love drives creation as a universal force. –Roy Hill 
  
  ❖ Love is the creative   force of the universe. Love creates, and fear destroys. –Cherie Aimee, NDEer 
  
  ❖   ‘Create’ love around you. This is abundance. –Lauren Antuofermo ❖ To learn to   love perfectly is the essence of spiritual growth, and may all of our   motivations be driven by love. –Roberta Grimes 
  
  ❖ Wisdom can run through any age,   any gender, and any race. –Tricia Barker, NDEer 
  
  ❖ It’s not about religion. It’s   about ‘be’coming and then ‘be’ing. –Amy Call, NDEer (“Teach me all that I must   ‘be’* to raise my vibration and dwell with the Divine once again.”) 
  
  ❖ When   transitioning into the next realm, one might ask, “Who have I ‘be’come?”   --Deanna 
  
  ❖ Let go of old beliefs and concepts that no longer serve you regarding   your own spiritual growth. I’m not so much concerned about one’s beliefs. I’m   more concerned about how those beliefs shape one’s behavior and character. –Zoe   Toussaint-Winchcomb, NDEer 
  
  ❖ I could see how I had naively accepted the beliefs   handed to me as I was growing up, and I also understood that until we actually   believe in religious myth, they have no power. Our belief in them is what makes   them true for us. –Anita Moorjani, NDEer ❖ We must unlearn what we have learned.   –Yoda 
  
  ❖ I comprehended the natural laws of the universe and was shown how every   individual, through his own free will, chooses a path that takes him to   circumstances of what continues. Nothing happens at random as we, in a way,   create our own world. –Amy Call, NDEer 
  
  ❖ When we realize that we are the creators   of this experience, we will finally accept responsibility for this experience   and with this knowledge, transform it into the reality we want it to become.   –Wade C Wilson ❖ Surely, a myriad of spiritual truths are taught within the   pages of our civilizations’ spiritual texts although many of these truths are   taught via allegory and/or metaphor. –Deanna 
  
  ❖ The Bible: a beautiful collection   of stories depicting how an ancient people made sense of life, divinity, the   cosmos, and deity. –Deanna 
  
  ❖ Most of us were never taught that there’s no   judgment, or that the most important thing we can focus on is love, not fear of   retribution. All we know is what our culture or religious tenets teach-tenets   written thousands of years ago by men in a completely different era. –Anita Moorjani, NDEer  
  
  ❖ An NDE, to a certain extent, is a co-created experience. –Jeffrey Long 
  
  ❖ Your   beliefs shape the spiritual feedback that you’re getting. –Mellen-Thomas   Benedict 
  
  ❖ It’s not about ‘be’lief. It’s simply about ‘be’ing. –Deanna 
  
  ❖ Being   spiritual has nothing to do with what you believe and everything to do with your   state of consciousness. –Eckhart Tolle 
  
  ❖ My big wish is that you can step forth   now from the doubts and fears that both science and religion have sown in us,   and enter with joy the abundant and glorious truth that you are a powerful,   eternal being—an infinitely precious part of ‘Source’—and that you are forever   perfectly loved! --Robert Grimes ❖ Life is a gift not a test, and you are   enough. –Jeffery Olsen, NDEer 
  
  ❖ You are in charge of ‘you’ and no one or nothing   else—your body, your mind, your thoughts. And ‘to love’ is your purpose. –Lauren   Antuofermo 
  
  ❖ Whatever you think, whatever you say, whatever you do—always,   always come from a place of love. --Deanna 
  
  ❖ Everything in life--every thought,   every feeling, every intention, every situation, and every moment is a &#39;call&#39; to   Love. –Pamela/Deanna 
  
  ❖ Even though it may not seem like it at times, life is a   totally safe, purposeful, and magnificent adventure amidst forever. –Mark Pitstick  
  
  ❖ Your life’s plan is perfect for you as imperfect as it may seem.   –Jeffery Olsen ❖ You can better handle life’s inevitable challenges with the   knowledge of your eternal nature. –Mark Pitstick 
  
  ❖ One of my goals as a   scientist is to make the unknown more known and the invisible more visible.   Understanding more of the greater reality is a major key to personal and   planetary transformation. –Gary Schwartz 
  
  ❖ We’re not talking about religious   faith, we’re talking about empirical evidence and the physics of reality. –Peter   Fenwick 
  
  ❖ We now have replicated university-based scientific studies that   demonstrate life does not end when the earthly body dies. I encourage you to let   this great news transform every aspect of your life. -- Mark Pitstick 
  
  ❖ Often   our greatest growth comes during the darkest hours of our lives. –Sandra   Champlain 
  
  ❖ Life is an education for one’s soul, and your life is important.   --Sandra Champlain 
  
  ❖ Each of us are an intricate, essential part of all of   creation. –Sharon Milliman 
  
  ❖ Refining one’s nature is what it’s all about.   --Deanna ❖ Death is merely the doorway to the next level of soul growth and   evolution. –Kevin Williams 
  
  ❖ Because of my NDE, I am closer to God and realize   now that life is not a series of consequences but of parallels and choices. My   choices directly affect those around me, and we are all interconnected. –Laurie   L, NDEer 
  
  ❖ Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly   beliefs? Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs I   had at the time of my experience. I believed in God and His Son, Jesus. That was   consistent. I was brought up to believe that there was only one true religion,   and we needed to find it. The one thing I have been allowed to remember was the   answer to my question about which is the true church on earth. He [Jesus] told   me it didn&#39;t matter, the name on the church door--the only thing that mattered   was my personal relationship with Him. That was something inconsistent with my   raising. –Babett W, NDEer 
  
  ❖ It had been impressed upon me that ‘love’ is really   the only thing that matters. We shouldn&#39;t hate anyone. God doesn&#39;t care about   sexual preferences or whatever kind of sin we have done. He truly loves us no   matter what. Yes, I know Jesus loves my imperfect self and the requirements  that most people think make you a Christian (church, tithes, perfect behavior)   are not important as the human mind would think. --Sarah S, NDEer 
  
  ❖ Although I’m   &#39;practicing&#39; [Chrisitianity], I don&#39;t grant a central place to religion, as our   life is dependent on our connection with God and not on the obedience of rules   and codes of practice. –Frederic, NDEer 
  
  ❖ I still try to emulate Jesus who has   always been my example of how to live. But now I am less concerned with the   technicalities of His story. I no longer care whether certain details are fact   or fiction. Nor do I care whether or not He is real or myth. I know now that it   doesn’t matter. All that matters are His teachings. I’ve embraced Jesus’ core   teaching to ‘treat others as you’d want to be treated.’ --Amy Call, NDEer ❖ I   let my life unfold each day, making decisions from a place of love, not fear. I   feel liberated from cultural beliefs and patterns and do my own thing. I,   uncharacteristically, challenge authority and the status quo and am outspoken.   I&#39;ve become very creative, surrounding myself with beauty--even writing poetry.   I am strongly drawn to help raise the collective consciousness of the physical   world. –NDEer (name withheld) 
  
  ❖ We are all connected to each other in a circle   in a hoop that never ends. –Lyrics, “Colors of the Wind” 
  
  ❖ We are all appendages   of the Divine. –Anita Moorjani, NDEer 
  
  ❖ We are each living, human expressions of   the Divine. –Susanne Wilson 
  
  ❖ We are each individual expressions of God.   –Melanie Alberts, NDEer 
  
  ❖ We are each, literally, co-creators with God. –Tony   Woody, NDEer 
  
  ❖ God is the creative force of which everyone and everything is a   part of. --R Craig Hogan 
  
  ❖ God is the unity of pure love and all that exists—the   highest vibration of unconditional love. –Mikey Morgan, channeled 
  
  ❖ The image of   God is the emotion/energy of Love, and life is a constant work in progress.   –Ashley M, NDEer 
  
  ❖ God is the conscious force of all that exists. –Sharon   Milliman, NDEer 
  
  ❖ We are all brothers and sisters of God, within. –Pamela   Aaralyn 
  
  ❖ Energy cannot be created nor destroyed. It simply shifts form and   vibration. –Albert Einstein 
  
  ❖ Treat others as you would want to be treated. It’s   how it works. –Kenneth Ring (Ref.: the ripple or domino effect, and the law of   reciprocity/karma) 
  
  ❖ Every action you put out creates a ripple effect, for good   or for bad—like the ripple made from a stone being tossed into a pond. –Erica   McKenzie/Renee Pasarow, NDEers 
  
  ❖ The being who led me into my life review showed   me three different perspectives: (1) through my own eyes, (2) through the eyes   of everyone who I had ever interacted with, and (3) was sort of an omniscient   view. … With each interaction, I got to feel what it was like to be on the   receiving end of whatever I was dishing out. Whenever I gave someone pleasure, I   felt it too, and whenever I caused someone pain, I felt that too. I remember   things I hadn’t thought about since my NDE had occurred when I as a very young   child. … There were things that I was profoundly ashamed of, and as I witnessed   these moments, I turned my attention to the being who I thought I was going to   get a lot of judgment from. All I got, in fact, was this huge outpouring of   unconditional love. The communication was that no one was going to judge me; I   would judge myself. … There was no such thing as right or wrong, only cause and   effect And I would determine what I had done well and what I needed to work on   and choose a course from there. –David Beckman, NDEer 
  
  ❖ The most important   message I’ve learned from the study of near-death experiences: the little things   in life (i.e., those small acts of kindness, compassion, and service) are the   big things. –David Sunfellow 
  
  ❖ Life and love are forever, and we are immortal. Let us live accordingly.   --Mark Pitstick 
  
  ❖ One must go without before going within. –Jenniffer Weigel 
  
  ❖   For wisdom, enlightenment, and answers go within instead of without. –Pamela   Aaralyn 
  
  ❖ Every human being has the perfection of God within them. –Lauren   Antuofermo 
  
  ❖ Neither shall they say, Lo here! Or, lo there! For, behold, the   kingdom of God is within you. –Luke 17:21 
  
  ❖ No ye not that ye are the temple of   God, and that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you? --1 Corinthians 3:18 
  
  ❖ It is   entirely possible that behind the perception of our senses, worlds are hidden of   which we are unaware. –Albert Einstein 
  
  ❖ The day science begins to study   non-physical phenomena, it will make more progress in one decade than in all the   previous centuries of its existence. To understand the true nature of the   universe, one must think in terms of energy, frequency and vibration. –Niloka   Tesla 
  
  ❖ Let us live as if we were immortal. –Aristotle 
  
  ❖ The human brain is not   the source of consciousness but, instead, is a physical receptor to   allencompassing consciousness. –Alex Tsakiris 
  
  ❖ Looking for consciousness in the   brain is like looking inside of a radio for an announcer. –Hassim Haramein 
  
  ❖ If   you will, think of your mind as a television set, and your death as simply   changing channels. --Roberta Grimes 
  
  ❖ The foundation of all existence is the   nature of consciousness. --Eben Alexander, NDEer 
  
  ❖ The science of consciousness   talks about how the most synchronized energy possible is love. There is no   incoherence in it. There is no separation in it. Every wave of energy is   absolutely coherent. –Jane Katra, NDEer 
  
  ❖ Consciousness is God, and we are all a   part of that consciousness—each of us being a unique lens of divine awareness.   –Deanna 
  
  ❖ If we find the answer to why the universe exists, it would be the   ultimate triumph of human reason. For then, we would know the mind of God.   –Stephen Hawking 
  
  ❖ Your life on earth is merely a thread in the fabric of your   soul, and to “treat others as you’d want to be treated” is written within the   very fabric of the Universe. –Eben Alexander, NDEer 
  
  ❖ In my experience, I saw   that everything is almost like this fabric, this web that is connecting us all   together. It was more than just a cord; it was more like a web, like a fabric.   We are all interconnected with each other. I am trying to describe it in our   three dimensions, and it’s so much more. We don’t have such a vocabulary, so   it’s hard to describe. –David Bennett, NDEer 
  
  ❖ You do not have a soul. You are a   soul. You have a body. –C.S. Lewis 
  
  ❖ Mistakes are simply lessons needed to   motivate growth, and sins are merely learning experiences--not stagnating   operations in shame. Like it or not, we all have to suffer through difficult   growing pains together in our winding journey toward unity. Herein lies our   salvation down this winding path back toward the Source. –Roy Hill 
  
  ❖ God does   not see behavior, including sin, in isolation, but rather developmentally and   holistically. Evil is not viewed as a static state but as a fluid means toward a   perfectly evolving future. For this reason, God’s expression of sin differs   radically from the emotionally-based judgments made by humans living in linear   time. –Roy Hill 
  
  ❖ The Divine looks upon our mistakes as errors, not sin. …   Punishment is the consciousness of man (the ego); enlightenment and correction   is the consciousness of the Divine (Source) … God/Source does not forgive   because [he] never condemned. … It is not what you’re saved from but what you’re   saved for. –Alan Cohen (takeaways from A Course in Miracles) 
  
  ❖ Adolph Hitler: a beloved soul of the Divine, as we all are, who was so   profoundly and severely spiritually retarded (in spite of intellect) at that   point of his soul’s evolution which led him to do what he did. –Kevin Williams   (~Oftentimes, atrocities of this magnitude ignite a profound spiritual   awakening—a wake-up call for change and growth--across the human conscious   collective. –Deanna) 
  
  ❖ Everything is in utter chaos, yet, at the same time,   everything is exactly as it should be. –David Sunfellow 
  
  ❖ I know I am   experiencing true oneness when delightful synchronicities unfold, reminding me   that what may seem random and coincidental is really part of a much larger plan   that I am being guided to follow. –Anita Moorjani 
  
  ❖ Humanity is expanding,   consciously, at ever-increasing rates with due credit given to the development   of the global internet. And, this is the nature of spiritual evolution. –Robert   Kopecky, NDEer 
  
  ❖ In our day and age of the study of verifiable history, NDEs,   and afterlife research—as well as the dawning of the internet—we find humanity   entering into a whole new era of awakening. --Deanna 
  
  ❖ I love and care for you   from your point of view and not from my own. –the Infamous Anonymous 
  
  ❖ It is   true that we are all fractals of the Divine and that we are all on varying   spiritual levels of development. Therefore, what can I do today to help?   --Deanna 
  
  ❖ Life is forever and continues on, seamlessly, no matter whether a   being appears to have a physical body or not. It’s all life—a dance of energy   that is never-ending, but often changing. – Mark Pitstick 
  
  ❖ Life is the dancer,   and you are the dance. –Eckhart Tolle 
  
  ❖ We’re all dancing in   Christ-consciousness vibration. –Brandon Beachum 
  
  ❖ …and when the earth has   claimed our limbs, then shall we truly dance. –Kahlil Gibran 
  
  ❖ We are slowed   down sound and light waves--a walking bundle of frequencies tuned into the   cosmos. We are souls dressed up in sacred biochemical garments, and our bodies   are the instruments through which our souls play their music. –Albert Einstein 
  
  ❖   Oh hummingbird, mankind’s been waiting for you to come flying along. Heavenly   songbird, we were so wrong, we’ve harmed you. Oh hummingbird, lend us your wings   to let us soar through the atmosphere of Abba. Lift us up to the Heaven[s] of   Holiness, oh Source of our Being, oh hummingbird… –Seals and Crofts 
  
  *’Be’ benevolent, caring, cheerful, compassionate, cooperative, courteous,   conscientious, constructive, decent, devoted, diplomatic, ethical,   even-tempered, forgiving, friendly, generous, gentle, genuine, giving, happy,   healthful, helpful, honest, hopeful, involved, joyful, kind, light-hearted,   loving, loyal, moral, nonjudgmental, open-minded, optimistic, patient, peaceful,   polite, present, respectful, resilient, responsible, self-controlled, sincere,   tactful, teachable, thankful, thoughtful, tolerant, unassuming, understanding,   etc., etc., etc. --to the point that these qualities define who ‘you are’ as a ‘be’ing.  
  “Every man that striveth for the mastery is temperate in all things.” –1   Corinthians 9:25 
  
  Whatever your ideology or religion may be (even if ‘it’ may be a literal belief   in Tinkerbell), if that ideology or religion aids you in ‘be’coming’, then your   ideology or religion has succeeded for you. (Take into account, of course, that   one man’s medicine is another man’s poison). Indeed, pure undefiled   unconditional love transcends ideology. For God is Love. --Deanna 
  
  
  Love is my religion, and humanity is my race. 
  
  Kindness … has no Church. 
  Peace … has no Religion. 
  Compassion … has no Temple. 
  Love … has no Borders. 
  
  
  
  
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
  
  
  
  
    NDEs, STEs and LDS     
  
  (Notation: I come from the LDS/Mormon faith tradition) 
  
  ❖ The Divine respects just where you’re at and persuades you in ways that you   can understand. 
  
  ❖ Our beliefs shape our realities, and our belief systems will   affect our transitions into the next realm. Spirit does not want to shock your   system. 
  
  ❖ Each NDE is custom-made for the benefit of the experiencer. –Robert   Kopecky 
  
  ❖ Your beliefs shape the spiritual feedback that you’re getting. –Mellen-Thomas   Benedict 
  
  ❖ Our world views have been shaped by our communities. –Thomas Butler 
  
  ❖   An NDE, to a certain extent, is a co-created experience. –Jeffrey Long 
  
  Pamela Aaralyn (Because of her STEs, Pamela had to leave Mormonism.) 
  Amy Call   (Because of her NDE, Amy felt the need to leave Mormonism.) 
  Duane Crowther Life   Everlasting (Multiple NDE stories validate, to a certain extent, Mormon   theology.) 
  Betty Eadie Closer to the Light (Betty’s NDE led her to Mormonism, however, is   no longer actively practicing the religion.) 
  Claudia Edge Gifts from the Edge:   Stories from the Other Side (Because of her NDE, Claudia felt the need to leave   Mormonism.) 
  Sarah Hinze Memories of Heaven (Sarah’s STEs led her to Mormonism.)   
  Ralph Jensen Taught by Christ (Ralph’s NDE affirms the Mormon story.) 
  Jane Moe   Visions of Heaven (Jane’s NDE led her to Mormonism.) 
  Jeffery Olsen I Knew Their   Hearts (Because of his NDE, Jeff now views his Mormon faith tradition in a   metaphoric light.) 
  Ryan Rampton (Ryan acknowledges the affirming metaphor of   Mormonism because of his NDE.) 
  Russell Ricks Remember: A Little Boy’s NDE   (Russell’s NDE affirms the Mormon story.) 
  Kim Rives My Walk Thru Heaven (Kim   acknowledges the affirming metaphor of Mormonism because of her NDE.) 
  Julie Rowe   A Greater Tomorrow (Julie’s NDE affirms both the Biblical and Mormon Story.)   
  Spencer (last name withheld) Visions of Glory, written by John Pontius   (Spencer’s NDE parallels the Mormon Story and confirms the validity of the   evolution and authority of the LDS Church.) 
  
  In other words, a Catholic most likely might experience an NDE with a Catholic   spin, a Muslim most likely might experience an NDE with a Muslim spin, a Mormon   most likely might experience an NDE with a Mormon spin, a Hindu most likely   might experience an NDE with a Hindu spin, a Buddhist most likely might   experience an NDE with Buddhist spin, etc., etc., etc. … And if the respective   faith tradition is helping the individual *grow spiritually, then, consequently,   in the NDE, that person may be told that their faith tradition is ‘true’ or   ‘correct’. Conversely, however, if the individual is being hampered,   spiritually, from their respective faith tradition (whatever it may be), they   may be inspired to leave the faith tradition from whence they’ve been following.   This is what I am finding, anyway, from all the research that I’ve done thus   far. 
  
  *Definition, ‘Spiritual Growth’ – the process of ‘be’coming 
  
  **I&#39;ve had the opportunity to visit, one-on-one, with both Betty Eadie and   Pamela Aaralyn and would love to share my experience with each of them. I, also,   test-read one of Roberta Grimes’ books for her as well as have collaborated with   Dr. Mark Pitstick. 
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
  
  
  
  One near death experience, in particular, which especially has had a significant   impact on me would have to be that of Amy Call&#39;s NDE, posted September 2014   along with numerous others including that of Eben Alexander’s, Tricia Barker’s,   John Davis’s, Betty Eadies’, Krista Gorman’s, Alan Hugenot’s, Raymond Kinman’s,   Melinda Lyons’, Erica McKenzie’s, Sharon Milliman’s, Anita Moorjani’s, Mary   Neal’s, Jeff Olsen’s, Rajiv Parti’s, Renee Pasarow’s, Pamela Reynold’s, George   Ritchie’s, Tommy Rosa’s, Nancy Rynes’, Martha St. Claire’s, Jayne Smith’s, and   Howard Storm’s--just to name a mere few. 
  
  
  ~Deanna M Kessler-Drinkar (30Sep19) 
  
       </p>  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/NDERF/Articles/resource_list_deanna.htm