{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/NDERF\/Articles\/nde_love_dn.htm","mytitle":"We Are ALL Loved by Daniel Neiman from S. Korea","mylang":"de"}
          	We Are ALL Loved by Daniel Neiman from S. Korea                      	            		

          We Are ALL Loved,           by Daniel Neiman from S. Korea               e-mail:&nbsp; danneiman@gmail.com     
  Home Page  Current NDEs  Share NDE</span>     	</tr>

This is perhaps the most important message to be learned   from studying Near-Death Accounts. The message is that no matter who you are,   what crimes and atrocities you have committed in life, or what crimes and   atrocities have been visited upon you--you are infinitely loved by the Light.   You may have lived, or currently live, in darkness but the Light is still a part   of you. Your soul still belongs to this Light we call God. You are still His   child, and as such you are loved and forgiven for everything that you do. No   matter the hurt you have caused in others, God knows your ignorance and is   always there to redeem you. Likewise, no matter what hurt has been visited upon   you, God is with you. You may have given up on God, but God never gives up on   you. There is always a plan for you, a direction that is in tune with the light,   no matter where you find yourself right now. Because if you are still alive,   there is a reason for your being here; God still needs you here. You've had the   experiences that you've had in order to learn and to grow spiritually. Please   have hope for tomorrow. Don't give up. Below I present accounts of NDEs where   people have experienced God's love, even when they had been in a bad place   before the experience.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; I would like to open up with an experience of a   soldier in the Vietnam war. Here is his story:    	&nbsp;'Back in 1969, I   		was in Vietnam doing my patriotic duty and teaching others how to do   		theirs. I was a Green Beret trainer in hand to hand combat in guerrilla   		warfare. I felt the caring of enemy soldiers was like a giant video or   		chess game. I gave no thought at all to the fact that the enemy really   		had personalities, names, parents, wives, children complete with their   		own individual fears, goals, hopes and dreams. It just wasn't anything I   		gave any thought to. They were just numbers to me. High kill numbers   		were good the higher the better. A conscience didn't pay off in the   		military, high kill numbers did.

I was mean,   		tough, and macho. I could use every part of my body to kill. I was a   		trainer of such men as well. I'd been a bit too cocky one day and almost   		paid the ultimate price. I was caught off guard and was taken out by a   		mortar shell. I floated above my body and didn't feel any pain.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; [. .   		.] I felt a sucking sensation downward and was suddenly in a trench.   		This trench was filled with blood, guts and body parts. It had a   		consistency of thick beef stew. To make matters worse, I saw Asian   		looking men, women and even little children standing on both banks of   		this trench. They were pointing at me screaming. They grabbed at me as I   		sloshed and struggled my way through the revolting smelling mess toward   		a distant spot of light. These people on the banks were missing parts of   		their faces, bodies and limbs. A mother was holding her infant, and both   		of them had bullet holes in their faces. Even though they were speaking   		Vietnamese, I could tell that they were screaming that I was in some way   		responsible for their condition and their deaths. They were so horribly   		frightening that I tried to stay focused only on the light. I felt that   		if I could just reach the light I would be safe. None of these   		dismembered people on the banks ever touched me, but I felt that I was   		running a gauntlet anyway.' (Soldier's)

He must now face the pain and   horror of his own creation. If he allows himself, he might become overcome by   the grief and horror surrounding him. The souls of those bodies which he so   mercilessly killed are all a part of him and are trying to make him feel their   pain. That is why he must stay focused on the Light. In the spiritual realm, we   realize that we are all a part of each other. We all come from the same source   and are united by that source. Therefore, the pain which you inflict on others   is in one sense inflicted on you. After death, you will have to experience this   pain and suffering as if it is your own. It's not meant for punishment, but for   learning the error of your ways. What better way to learn than to actually feel   the pain of the other from their perspective? Some people die to escape   suffering, but the only way to truly escape suffering is through forgiveness and   opening up to love. Continuing on. . .    	'One   		of the most haunting memories of this torturous journey was of a six   		year old thin little girl I had referred to as Miss Piglet (due to the   		fact that she always hung around begging for food and candy and was   		filthy). She showed up at our camp one day and had something concealed   		in a bag slung over her shoulder. She looked as if she was about to do   		something that she knew she should not be doing. I carefully drew a bead   		on her from about 50 feet away and thought, &quot;If she pulls out anything   		suspicious she is history&quot;. I saw her reach into her bag and pull out   		something that looked like a grenade. I thought &quot;She has a grenade in   		that bag and has been sent to blow up my guys!&quot; I then blew off the top   		of her head with a single shot. Her brother later told some of the other   		guys that she had been trying to find an American who would hide a puppy   		that she had become attached to, and to save it from becoming part of   		the family dinner that evening. Several of the guys had criticized me   		for reacting too quickly in firing, when in fact I had only seen the   		head of the black puppy from a distance and thought it was a grenade. I   		shrugged it off in my usual manner saying &quot;She was an unfortunate victim   		of war&quot;. One of the people on the banks of the river of blood and guts   		was this little Vietnamese girl. She was screaming at me with what was   		left of her face. I was horrified and filled with guilt.

After I've gone   		through what seemed like miles of this trench, I heard my deceased best   		friend's voice from high school telling me that I can do it. I can make   		it. I knew he was giving me encouragement. The encouragement I needed to   		make it to the light.

My friend, Ed,   		had died one and a half years ago in a hunting accident. Yet here he was   		suddenly helping me out of the trench and hugging me warmly. I felt   		tremendous relief, love and acceptance. Tears of joy ran down both of   		our faces. &quot;Hey man&quot; he said, I know that was rough. But you needed it,   		you were getting just a little bit too callous and that isn't like you.   		It just wasn't the Keith I knew when we played football together and   		hung around in high school. I took a good look around and was in awe by   		the incredible beauty of the place of where we both stood. It was like a   		meadow like a sparkling stream running through it. The colors were much   		more vivid than on earth. I noticed for the first time that Ed was   		glowing, and I looked at my own arms and they glowed slightly too. He   		said to me, &quot;you are not doing the right thing, you should not be doing   		this killing. Your mission is to help others and to protect them. You   		will learn more about your mission as you go along, but for now you need   		to go back. This is your home and you will return, but for now you need   		to go back and discover your mission in full.&quot; As soon as he said that I   		felt a pop and was instantly in pain and lying in a hospital bed.

[. . .] Since   		my Vietnam experience, I had felt a compelling protective need toward   		women and children. I even help out by volunteering to build shelters   		for abused and displaced women and their children. I have had some   		paranormal experiences since then but we will save that for a later   		time. I hope that this NDE will shed some light on your research.'   		(Soldier's)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; He needs to   learn about the pain and suffering he has inflicted. However, although he killed   a lot of people, he is still greatly loved and his home is the Light. However,   it is not his mission in life to be a killer. His mission is to help others,   specifically women and children. This mission could be tied to the killing of   that young girl who was trying to save the puppy. Now, he is redeeming himself   (repaying karma) by helping children like her! He needs to restore the balance   of his actions by helping those he hurt. This is his path in life. This is how   he can help others and share the Love. We all need to use our talents and   abilities to help others. Our purpose in life always has to do with Love and   helping other people. Do what you love to do, what you have a passion for, and   do it with the intention of helping others.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The next   account is of a woman who had a hard life as a weak and sick female. However,   she learns during her NDE that this life was a lesson that needed to be learned   based on past actions in previous lives.    	&nbsp;'I knew I got this body because   		my mother and father had this little body and all their close spirits   		were used up.&nbsp; It was going to be a very weak, sick female body, but it   		was what I needed to experience what I (the spirit) needed in order to   		grow spiritually.&nbsp;It was like taking a college class that you hated,   		(like calculus) but you knew you had to get a passing grade in it in   		order to graduate.&nbsp;So I reluctantly agreed to take this body that   		belonged to a family I had never been with before. I also knew that I   		had been in a previous body that was a huge mean man who abused women   		and children.&nbsp;I needed to experience what it felt like to be a small,   		sickly woman.&nbsp;I understood why the body was dyslexic.&nbsp;Now that was a   		real challenge back in the 40-50s when you were humiliated and punished   		because you didn't know right from left.&nbsp;

And why I chose nursing, and every time I tried   		to quit and go into another profession, I was pulled back.&nbsp;Everything   		was clear.&nbsp;I was going to school far from home and I only had one bag I   		could take.&nbsp;There were certain required items and one little spot left.   		I had to choose one thing (like a favorite teddy bear)-I chose my art   		ability and it was a wise choice.&nbsp;The spirits knew I was just passing   		through and so did I.&nbsp;Then a bright white light started appearing at the   		end of the aisle.&nbsp;I wanted to go to it.&nbsp;It got brighter and brighter and   		I started zinging faster and faster.&nbsp;It and I knew I had agreed to take   		this body reluctantly and that I hadn't completed my task.'&nbsp;(Sylvia W)

As she took advantage of and   abused women in her previous life as a male, she now comes back to experience   what it's like to be in a weak female body where people humiliate her because of   her condition. She is learning from the other side of the equation. It is like   switching sides, going from abuser to victim. This alternation may continue   until learning is achieved. Love and forgiveness are the keys to learning. She   must not feel hatred toward those who humiliate her or abuse her, or she will   just end up switching sides again in another life. She must find love and   forgive.

We may be born into a difficult   life situation, but there is a lesson to be learned from it. There is a reason   for it. We all chose to come into the life we did, knowing what it would require   of us. Sometimes the situations are tough, but we all have a choice in how we   deal with those situations. We must choose to forgive, love, and trust in   God/the Universe to guide our lives. Instead of focusing on the hurt inside of   us or the guilt we harbor over our own actions, we should focus on what we can   do for others NOW. Think of those people who love you or need your love.   We all have a path and we all need to learn to   forgiveness, as the next account shows:&nbsp;    	'September 24, 1995 at   		approximately 0130 I was shot during a failed robbery by a county   		sheriff. The bullet shattered my knee and severed the artery in my lower   		leg. I was told that I &quot;bled out&quot; during surgery.

[. . .] I was standing barefoot in a beautiful   		mountain meadow, as a four-year-old. Holding my chubby little hand was   		the most beautiful man I had ever seen. A Greek God times a hundred! He   		had a glow that radiated love like the sun does light, and I knew I was   		safe with him. It was the most peaceful loving feeling I have ever   		known. We started walking along a path through the meadow, hand in hand.   		I knew that he was taking me somewhere specific, but that the walk was   		important, too. I was seeing such amazing things. Colors, shapes, smell,   		everything was so sharp and beautiful. It was like seeing for the first   		time. My guide enjoyed this walk as much as I did, pointing to new   		things and laughing at my enjoyment. The only sound he made was   		laughter, and it was as wonderful as everything else was. It was the   		rush of a mountain stream, a baby's first cry. Tinkling chimes and   		thunder. I will never be able to describe the sound.

At the end of the path we came to a point   		overlooking a valley. The valley was covered by fog / clouds so that you   		not only could not see into it, but could not get an accurate feeling   		for the size of the valley. Out of the valley came these feelings /   		emotions that were so sad, I started to cry. The feelings were sorrow   		filled with longing. Much like wishing something hadn't happened the way   		it did, knowing it was too late to change it, but wishing anyway. My   		guide was crying to. A wasted life is too sad for words.' (Prisoner's)

&nbsp;It sounds like this valley is   filled with souls who have profound regret over their actions in life and are   unable to move on. They are unable to forgive themselves. Maybe they drank their   life away instead of spending more time with their children. Maybe they gave up   on life because they were abused and saw no hope for the future. Maybe they are   guilty over pain that they have caused others. The possibilities are endless.   But all had a purpose on Earth that they failed to accomplish because they could   not see past the hurt and pain. The focus needs to be on Love and what you can   do to help somebody else. Most importantly, forgive yourself and others. Don't   harbor guilt or resentful feelings. Let those things go and know that it is   never too late to start down the right path. Continuing on. . .    	

&nbsp;'The glow around my guide   		faded as a brighter, bigger glow surrounded us, and I heard a voice   		inside my head. The voice said, &quot;Philip, this is the end of the path   		that you now walk. Remember that I will always love you.&quot; The glow   		faded, my guide smiled and wiped my eyes, and the bubble &quot;popped&quot;   		again.' (Prisoner's)

Keep in mind that he had his NDE   after a police officer shot him during a robbery attempt. He is probably shown   the valley of 'lost souls' as a warning. If he continues on his current path of   crime, he may end up there, regretting his actions and experiencing tremendous   guilt. He needs to walk the right path. There is some good that he can do for   others. He must change his ways and begin his new journey. However, regardless,   God will always love and accept him.

Heaven and Hell is all a choice.   We have complete free-will and choose our own paths. Hell is simply the absence   of God/Light/Love, whereas Heaven is the abundance of God/Light/Love ' choose   your preferred term. We have a choice to make between these two options. The   next account will detail this:    	&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;'Looking back into the tunnel, I   		noticed there were doorways in both sides of the structure. A few other   		cross/stars were wandering about in the tunnel, some blue like myself,   		some amber colored. Two other blue cross/stars appeared beside me and   		gently propelled me into the tunnel. I floated along and up observing   		that some &quot;door-ways&quot; were open while others seemed to have been shut.

The first doorway I peered into resembled a   		classic Hell. There was the sound of shrieking and agonizing screams.   		Naked human beings were strewn about a blasted landscape with pools of   		bubbling excrement and jagged boulders. Devils and other animals were   		torturing people in all imaginable ways; and people were also torturing   		each other. As I neared the doorway to this sinister scene, I felt a   		sucking sensation drawing me in like a whirlpool, and I found myself   		&quot;flying&quot; above the miserable landscape. The smell was putrid and the   		heat was almost unbearable but a part of me was fascinated by the   		seemingly infinite varieties of pain and anguish that was being   		inflicted on the inhabitants of this realm. Most of me wanted to leave   		so I had no difficulty and my feeling was that anyone could leave if   		they wished. I felt that no one or nothing had put those people in   		captivity except their belief in the agony they continued to suffer.'   		(Sarah's)

This is very   interesting. She seems to be saying that we create our own reality. Again, the   concept of complete free-will. Why are these souls there? Simply, that's what   they believe in. Maybe they've been indoctrinated by religion to believe that's   the fate that awaited them after death. That's where they think they should be.   They don't think they deserve love and fail to dream of a better reality.   Continuing on. . .     	

&nbsp;'I &quot;flew&quot; back to the doorway which was clearly   		visible from everywhere in the &quot;Hell&quot; I left with nothing but joy, but I   		still had a sense of myself as apart from that joy. The next doorway in   		the tunnel wasn't much better. As far as the eye could see people walked   		on barren yellow ground with their heads down, completely engrossed in   		their own depressed self- pitying thoughts, unaware that anyone else was   		around them. A great feeling of loneliness and isolation emanated from   		the scene, and I shied away from getting too close, although no sucking   		sensation was felt near this opening in the cloud tunnel.' (Sarah's)

This sounds a lot   like the valley that the Prisoner looked into. It is a place filled with   depressed souls who wallow in their self-pitying thoughts. They are too   engrossed in their own negativity to see the Light. Remember, the Loving being   who was with the prisoner cried upon seeing this sight. This is because He loves   them and is there for them. But He cannot manipulate them. It is their free-will   to do as they choose, wasting away their time depressing over past events that   they can't let go of. All they need to do is Wake UP. They must make the   decision to move on and call out to God for help to get on the right path.
  
  &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The next account will show us that our negativity can lead to a   negative experience after death, where that energy takes form and attacks us.   However, if you can reconnect with the love inside you, then the experience will   change into a positive one.      	'I was a young and angry man, angry at God   		because I was gay. So this I took with me on my journey to the other   		side. As I know now, I should never be this angry again.

[, , ,] I went to a very stormy place. This was,   		perhaps, the destination that I reached when having died in anger at a   		time when I could not remember having much peace in my heart.&nbsp; I   		remember mentioning that at this place there was an after-echo in my   		&quot;thought voice.&quot; My voice would echo straight out towards the horizon   		before me and always return back into me from the horizon behind me.&nbsp;   		This, I thought was very annoying.&nbsp; This place I reached was not a   		comfortable environment at all. Storms like no other storm seen on earth   		would unfold before me in the sky and on the&nbsp;ground of this new and   		shaken planet.&nbsp; There were various sizes of volcanic vents around me   		that would blow steam and heat at any given moment. Sometimes,&nbsp;ghost   		apparitions would appear in the steam blast and start to wander around;   		lost&nbsp;as if searching for something they cannot find.&quot; (David H's)

His negativity has   brought him here. The landscape is symbolic of the storm inside of his own   psyche. It is what he resonates with. It is what's inside of him. Continuing on.   . .     	'One of the ghosts blasted out of the vent   		nearest me, it was a woman. She frightened me. She was dressed in very   		ancient garb, torn in places, and appeared to be very dirty.&nbsp; She had no   		feet below, so she sort of drifted on air. She was approaching my   		space&nbsp;very slowly. When she reached close enough for me to touch, I   		chose to communicate.

I asked her if she was able to tell me the name   		of this place.&nbsp;She would not answer.&nbsp;However, she slowly crept even   		closer to me as if she was going to take, steel, or hurt me.&nbsp;I know all   		thoughts are heard here, so you can't hide a plan for yourself. Instead   		you just have to come out and say it.&nbsp;&nbsp;So I said very stern, &quot;who are   		you!!&quot; She then tore off a part of the shroud that hid her face and   		showed me only bone and skull. Her jaw opened wide, as if dislocated,   		and she rose completely out of her robe and swooped down at me for a   		bite. It was my left shoulder, my spirit body. The pain was so great, it   		was worse than death.&nbsp;At that very moment as she swooped around in   		mid-air to take on another bite of my spirit, I dropped&nbsp;down on to my   		knees and cried out for God.

The spirit women placed her hands on her head   		and disappeared back into the ground vent. I noticed the other   		approaching spirits did the same. Still I cried for God, and asked if he   		would forgive me for speaking so crude of him back on earth and if he   		would accept me back and take me home, away from this strange land.

It was at that moment that I also realized that   		my voice would no longer echo and return back into me.&nbsp;Instead, I would   		roar out his name unto the summit of the horizon and his name alone   		would explode into light and sound.&nbsp;The rest of the spirits around me   		would show fear as if God was not any comfort to them at all.&nbsp;This was   		sad to me, but it was also a joy for me to know that God had accepted my   		apologies, as the light on the horizon would expand in my direction.'   		(David H's)

God, or Love, holds   all the power. If you sincerely express this love, negative spirits will run and   hide like their life is in danger. They want no part of this positive energy   because they feed only on the negative energies. If they get too close to you as   you call out to God or express love, that light may touch them and open up their   heart. But, they may not be ready to experience love yet, so they will flee.&nbsp;   This shows us that anytime we're in trouble, we should focus on love and call   out to God. Because love is our protection, in this life and the next.   Continuing on. . .     	'So beautiful was his light, words cannot   		express. His light was like the rising sun. And like the sun he rose   		up&nbsp;from behind the mountains into the sky.&nbsp;Love&nbsp;poured into every   		part&nbsp;of my being and my soul was revitalized.&nbsp;&nbsp;The planet was also   		changing under His light.&nbsp;I saw parts of the mountains tear open and   		gush forth in the form of waterfalls.&nbsp;The dark clouds above my head   		shrank backward at an amazingly swift pace.&nbsp;God has come; His light&nbsp;is   		warm and welcoming. I had then reached a high level of calm and peace.&nbsp;

Slowly as His light would shed across the land   		you could see grass come up out of the ground.&nbsp; Huge trees would tear   		out of the surface and stand tall before me. Birds of all kinds would   		fly about the sky. All of Gods creatures came out of the forest as if to   		greet me.&nbsp; This was the most grand welcome back home.&nbsp;Tears of joy and   		laughter are all of the words I can sum up from this experience. His   		light then grew extremely bright. I had been completely bathed in white   		light.&nbsp;God held me lovingly in his embrace for a time.&nbsp;His light grew   		brighter until I could barely see anything.

At this point, I could sense that it was time   		for me to go back to earth.&nbsp;Looking at God, I said&nbsp;&quot;Please Lord, can I   		stay?&quot;&nbsp;&nbsp;Hush, He would say, your time on earth has not been completed.   		Now, go off and be a good lad for there is much more for you to learn.&nbsp;   		I thanked God endlessly during my journey home to earth, then   		there.&nbsp;WHAM!!! I am in my body again, eough, I don't know if that is   		really a word but that's what it feels like when you first get a body   		back, so&nbsp;&quot;eough&quot;&nbsp; ok. (David H's)

Even though David   turned to the 'darkside' and expressed hatred towards God in his life, God was   there to redeem him as soon as he made the call. God is in us all. All we have   to do is connect with his Light. When we truly, sincerely, call out to God from   our hearts, that call cannot be denied because we are a part of God. Love is the   call that must be answered. God will not deny or reject anyone who expresses a   desire for his light, because we are all equally His child. It's us that needs   to change. It's us that needs to see the light in life. If we focus on the   negative, then that will become our reality. But, if we focus on the light as   David started to do, then that will become our reality. It's all about   free-will.
  
  &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;  The next account again further shows us that if when we die   we are filled with darkness, that darkness may become our spiritual reality, but   if we die with Love in our hearts, we will go to the Light and have a joyous   reunion with the Source.    	'I am 26 years old. I had my NDE when I was 22,   		in April of 1998. It was due to my suffering from Post-Traumatic Stress   		Disorder. When I was little I was severely abused by my father and   		grandfather, I was also a victim of child pornography and prostitution.   		I had been involved in alcohol and drugs and had an eating disorder for   		many years. At the time of my &quot;death&quot; I was trying to get my life in   		order, I had stopped drugs and my eating disorder at age 19, but with   		little success in feeling any better--I just switched addictions to   		compulsively smoking. My past was still too painful to face, and without   		facing the past, I could not successfully and healthfully live in the   		present. I believe it was these forces which emotionally and physically   		ripped me in two.

One of the problems that came along with my Post   		Traumatic Stress Disorder was an inability to fall asleep. I was an   		insomniac. I was terrified of sleeping, since nighttime and sleep had   		long been equated with abuse. I started to get less and less sleep.   		Going from 5 hours, to 4, to 3, to 2, to 1 if I was lucky, until at the   		very end I wasn't sleeping at all. I simply let myself deteriorate. I   		had lost my will to live, and I was starving myself as well as not   		drinking enough fluids. After 7 nights of not sleeping at all, I wound   		up in the hospital, severely ill. The doctors told my mother that they   		didn't know if I would make it or not. (She did not tell me this until   		years later). All I remember was that I was in the hospital room, and   		all of a sudden I was surrounded by this bright yellowish-white, almost   		golden light. It was brighter off into the distance, and I was seeing   		this light as though it were superimposed over the landscape out the   		window. All of a sudden, I was somehow being pulled towards this light,   		and it was the most indescribable feeling of peace and love I had ever   		experienced. It was pure ecstasy. My heart was alive, it felt as though   		I had streams of cool endlessly flowing water running through it and it   		was the most exhilarating feeling! I never wanted the feeling to stop   		and I was so happy!! (for the first time in my life!) I was just   		enthralled and in this state for what felt like a long time and a short   		time all at once. It were as though all knowledge was being poured   		through me, that nothing was being held back. I was so loved, and all of   		my questions were being answered.

Then I heard a nurse screaming at me. She   		sounded so angry, and I could see her as though I were looking from a   		point near the corner of the ceiling looking down. She was grabbing me   		and trying to give me some medicine. I wasn't responding to her, and I   		was not happy that she was trying to get me back. Finally I was somehow   		back in my body [. . .]&nbsp;

I remained in this state [loving and able to   		sense the energy around people] for a while, but then my own negative   		past took over. Since I hadn't really dealt with the painful issues of   		my past they hit me full on. All the old guilt, pain, and buried anger   		came soaring back, only this time I felt it was going to consume me. And   		consume me it did. I started thinking how unworthy I was of what I had   		experienced, I started thinking all these horrible, bad thoughts about   		myself and I sank back into my old state of gut wrenching depression.   		That's when I had my second NDE. This one was the most horrible things   		that anyone could imagine.

I was lying in the bed when all of a sudden I   		experienced this blackness. There was no light, there was nothing. It   		wasn't even that I could see the blackness, it just existed and I knew   		it was there. All of a sudden there were these beings all around me. I   		can't remember how many, but I felt that they were beings that had been   		around me for a while and had been waiting for this moment. They started   		pulling at me and took me to this place of absolute desperation. There   		was nothing, and yet I existed in this horrible void. The essence of   		this void was that it was an ABSENCE OF GOD. I want to stress that   		emphatically. It was absolute torture.. nothing, absolutely nothing can   		describe this pain. It was my worst nightmare come true. The beings   		there told me that all of my family was doomed to be in the void and   		that it would be my fault. Even talking about it is very, very hard. It   		was pure terror.' (Analisa D's)   	    </b>

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Evil works by manipulating people into thinking   that they are worthless and unloved. Negative beings try to turn us away from   God and make us fail to see the light. Never let yourself be manipulated into   thinking that you are worthless, undeserving of Love, or unloved. God loves all   equally and we all have a divine purpose for being on this Earth. Our Home is   the Light, and we may all return there after death. You are a powerful,   beautiful, spiritual being. Never let yourself forget that. Here are Analisa's   final thoughts on the matter:    	

'I no longer believe that. The main difference   		between the 2 NDE's, I believe, was my state of mind at the time. During   		the first one, I knew in my heart that I was loved, I was ready for a   		peaceful death and it happened. During the second one, I was letting my   		deepest fears play out in front of me. I thought I was beyond help and   		beyond hope. I truly believe that had I asked for help during the second   		one, it would have come. Instead, I felt not even God could help me, and   		I remained in that awful place.' (Analisa D's)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; She herself comes to the conclusion that her   state of mind at the time of death determined her experience. In the first NDE,   she felt loved and was ready to die in peace. That love drew her towards the   light where she experienced the ultimate bliss. However, before her second NDE,   she was consumed by her negative past and was full of fear. That fear apparently   attracted some not so nice beings who dragged her down to the depths of darkness   and played on her fears by telling her that her entire family was destined to   end up there and it was her fault that they would do so. Complete lies of   course, but if she believes them, she will become further depressed, which these   entities take some sort of sadistic pleasure or pride in doing. She also   mentions that if she had called out to God during the second experience, she   believes God would have rescued her. The evil beings tried to take her away from   the Light, from the Love, by telling her hurtful things. But if you can find it   within you, if you can even remember one loving memory and hold on to it in the   midst of such turmoil, that Love can save you. The entities will try to degrade   you at first and make you go back to thinking dark thoughts. They feed off of   your hopelessness and fear. But, if you can hold onto the love and remember who   you are, then they start to back away, because Love threatens them and they are   not ready to turn to God just yet. As you reconnect with the love inside of you,   the Light will come for you and take you back Home! It is a promise.
  
  &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Finally, here is one more account of someone who didn't feel loved   and had tried to commit suicide a number of times. This is what she was inspired   to write after her NDE:    	'I was also inspired to write after my ordeal.&nbsp;   		This is what I wrote.&nbsp; It's to say, no matter who you are in this world,   		gay strait, black, white, African or American, whoever you are.. male   		female.. transgender.. animal.. incest.. WHOEVER OR WHATEVER&lt; if it's   		created, God loves it.&nbsp; GOD LOVES YOU, and if this will discourage   		anyone from ending it all... if this brings anyone out there hope.&nbsp; Then   		I have done a good deed somewhere, which makes me very proud.&nbsp; So I hope   		this gives people hope. Here is what I wrote, the day right after what I   		had done.

The Crow: Love is Stronger than Death&nbsp;   		9/22/2003&nbsp; You ever heard that ol' adage?&nbsp; Curiosity killed the cat but   		satisfaction brought her back? I never believed it was true, until last   		night. As with Love is stronger than death.&nbsp; Emotions and feelings being   		such guiding forces, able to raise us from the dead. Something so small   		like LOVE.. yet so meaningful. Being, sadly depressed for so long of my   		life, and have yet to see a miracle in my life.

No one was a harsher, meaner taskmaster critic   		to me, than me. You can psychologize where that negative inner voices   		comes from, mom dad, uncle, grandma and grandpa, or blame my entire   		dysfunctional family- go on you know you want to. Hell, the rest of you   		want to place the blame rightfully into my arms, my lap. In truth,   		however you decide to put together why I am unstable, that's fine by me,   		but invariably, the madness of my existence always drove me to suicide.   		Always. I've been suicidal since I was twelve years old. &nbsp;

My grandmother only realized the seriousness,   		when I was first, and finally allowed myself into the care of   		psycho-evaluation. When you are stretched out on a stretcher, and you're   		vomiting all over the place, until your insides burned, you would think   		that is when a person would stop, right? Wrong. I wasn't a week out the   		hospital before I attempted 4 different times, always thinking *This is   		it, this will be the last of me*, only to find myself awake, full-blown   		awake and in pain. Always in pain, worse pain then when I first   		attempted.

But last night was inevitable. His heart ached   		for me, and figured enough was enough, perhaps He just *had* to prove   		who was key over life or death, and guess who it is everyone, not just   		Jesus, not just God.. but me. I had the power to blow me away.&nbsp; Or I had   		the power to strengthen me.&nbsp; Me. Last night, I drank down an entire   		bottle of pills, a bottle of Beef Eaters Gin, some sleeping pills, and a   		side order of Ginseng tea. I figured, * now this will invariably work*,   		and guess what everyone. It really did.

['] Next thing, I feel my entire bedroom light   		with rainbows, purple and gold light, and, I could feel God's presence.   		and do you know what he said? He didn't say, you're going to burn in   		hell, you're evil for this, you're a bad person, .. do you know what He   		said to me?&nbsp; &quot;I can't take you right now honey, you are barely finished   		with this lifetime. You have to complete why you are here. when you wake   		up, you will be very sick, but nothing will happen to you.&quot;&nbsp; I remember   		the very soft, subtle way he said *honey*. It felt so wonderful, like   		GOD was up to date, and at the same time, was Himself. He had a soft   		feminine touch as god is both male and female energy, but it was nice.

I always remembered, reading Christian Self-Help   		books in bookstores, feeling frustrated, always my heart breaking, in   		this well does this include me? way, when they would describe the   		vastness and the boundlessness and the foreverness of God's love. It   		would always reek my heart.&nbsp;How could God, ever love me?&nbsp; Sort of how I   		view everyone in my life, my family, my friends, online offline, right   		here. How could anyone love me?&nbsp; How, when I cant love me?

Revolutionary Esoterism&nbsp; So why should God take   		time out of his busy day, to care anything about me? Protect me yes when   		I drink myself sick for days at a time, no food, no water, nothing.. but   		the booze that rocks in my gut, reminded me just how alone I am. Just   		how sad, I am. Shunned by the world.

So father, if I am your daughter, why have you   		allowed her to prostitute herself on the streets? Can you love tainted   		girls like me?&nbsp; No one could, but then, I [was] resurrected by love, the   		guiding hand light love. I was brought back because my heart refused to   		give up. That poor engine just would not give up.

Could God still love her after the horrible   		things that she had done, after prostituting herself and trying to throw   		her life away? Yes, she is His child too. And God's love is Infinite.'   		(Nicole's)

She had felt unloved in life and chosen a rocky   path, turning to drinking and prostitution. This was how she chose to deal with   her situation. It doesn't mean she was truly unloved, just that she failed to   see any love around her. However, after her NDE she learns that she really was   loved all the time. She just needs to make the choice to open up to this love.   The love is always there within you. The choice needs to be made to express it.   Continuing on. . .    	'So here I am, everyone. even that Don Henley   		song stuck in my head *I'm taking you home*&nbsp; *which I figured*.. and   		there it was my friends.&nbsp; My first encounter with my angels and God.&nbsp;   		Plus, my heart may have stopped or slowed to nothing, but it was still   		flowing with blood. The blood of love, the lamb, whatever you call it.   		Something kept me grounded in the physical, from leaving.&nbsp; I am here to   		do something important.

And certain people in my life, my grandma for   		instance, loved me. I kept thinking, Oh my God, what if She finds my   		body right here in the bed. My corpse, my lifeless corpse. How would She   		feel. How would she feel, seeing my lifeless dead body laying here in   		bed, as the cd coldplay remains on forever repeat? That kept me grounded   		here. That image. Her.' (Nicole's)

This is an important message. To keep her from   accepting death, she thinks of how her death will affect the one person who   really loves her. She can't bear to break her Grandmother's heart. Just   remember, that you're here for a reason and there are others that would be hurt   by your death.    	

'Not even her, but just the idea she would see   		my body laying in this bed, dead with my eyes gazing up at the ceiling.   		My eyes didn't close for part of the night. Part of that night. Most of   		that night. I wish, I could have understood the significance then, what   		did my eyes read, when they locked onto my ceiling? Were they in hope?   		sadness? despair? Could have they read my expression, if I would have   		died that night? The idea that we sort of wake one another up, everyday,   		to complete the day, its different now, because I can write my emotions   		but not show them. And I understand, now. Everything. She kept my heart   		from letting me fly.&nbsp;Love is stronger than Death.' (Nicole's)

Her grandmothers love seems to be the only thing   that kept her from ending it all. So, before you try to harm yourself or do   something stupid, think of the one person who loves you and needs you.   Continuing on. . .     	'['] Another prime example, would be with the   		movie *lost and delirious*? Remember when Paulie was with Mary Brave,   		they recited Lady Macbeth's role in Shakespeare's Macbeth, and, then   		chose themselves to become one with the darkness. Remember, when Mary   		Brave at the end said &quot; I was almost lost to the darkness, but you were   		inside me saying be strong. You were the heart inside of me, that kept   		to the light.

Sadly, Paulie didn't have anyone to love her,   		Paulie didn't have anyone to guide her from the darkness, so she had to   		fly.&nbsp; It's a lot like that. I was lost in oblivion, black holes, black   		scenery, and apathy, but my heart beat kept me here, grounded on planet   		earth.

I love you all, Stay strong.&nbsp; Please keep pushin'   		on.&nbsp; Someone hears you, Somewhere. (Nicole's)

We are all loved and we are never alone. Even when   we feel alone, there are spirits around us, or otherwise on the other side and   able to hear us. Never stop praying and never stop trying, because if you are   still alive then you are alive for a purpose. You may have failed that purpose a   1000 times, but if you're still alive, God believes you can still accomplish it.   Really there's nothing to worry about, even if you don't know specifically what   your individual purpose is. We're all here to do the same thing really, and that   is to Love others. So, choose the path of Love, and whatever you do, do it with   Love!

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

References:&nbsp;

Analisa D - https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1analisa_d_nde.html&nbsp;

David H - https://www.nderf.org/david_h's.htm&nbsp;

Nicole - https://www.nderf.org/nicole's_nde.htm&nbsp;

Prisoner - https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1prisoner_nde.html&nbsp;

Sarah - https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sarah_nde.html&nbsp;

Soldier - https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1one_soldier_nde.html&nbsp;

Sylvia W - https://www.nderf.org/sylvia_w's_nde.htm    </body>  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/NDERF/Articles/nde_love_dn.htm