{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/NDERF\/Articles\/meditation_nde.htm","mytitle":"Meditation Can Be a Near-Death Experience (With Less Drama) by Bruce Davis Ph.D.","mylang":"de"}
          	Meditation Can Be a Near-Death Experience (With Less Drama) by Bruce Davis Ph.D.                            	            		

          Meditation Can Be a Near-Death Experience 
  		(With Less Drama) </font></b></span>   
  Home Page  Current NDEs  Share NDE</span>     	</tr>

  By Bruce Davis Ph.D.

&nbsp;

Many people are coming forward with incredible tales   after near-fatal accidents or life threatening heart attacks, strokes and   serious illness. While doctors and machines are trying to restore body and mind,   they are reporting remarkable near-death experiences. Almost universally they   find when the mind stops their awareness continues. They are quite surprised to   find themselves looking down upon their bodies as their awareness spreads and   spreads through walls, buildings, across country into other realms. They are in   wonder with what is happening. The mind is not the source, the beginning and end   of existence. There is a larger universe. Another world opens to them. There is   a vast space. They share stark stories of leaving their everyday reality and   going into a great light. Once there, their whole life appears in front of them   for review. Meanwhile an experience of other worldly peace, a very intimate   love, an unconditional acceptance beyond words surrounds them. Near-death   experiences are full of reports of brilliant light, angels, Christ, wise beings   beyond description in our earthly terms. They report having a body although they   have no body. They find a deep understanding with no words being shared.   Everything is complete and whole. There is a universe of unity and harmony for   at least as long as the experience continues.

Near-death experiences have seemingly no time, no   limit until it is understood the person must return. Suddenly they open their   eyes and are back to their normal reality. These experiences change their lives,   their priorities, their relationships, almost everything which they previously   thought were true. Almost universally people who have had near-death experiences   begin choosing a life of joy. There are no excuses, no substitutions for joy as   the measurement for a good life.

The experience of meditation is very similar to these   reports of near-death experience.
  When we meditate we discover when our thoughts and feelings recede, our   awareness continues. When our mind stops there is much more. As we go deeper   inside, our awareness finds a great presence. Our small &quot;I&quot; finds a much larger   &quot;I am&quot; that is spreading into a vast space. We are much more than our thoughts   and feelings. Awareness is found to be without limit, without boundaries.   Meditation takes us beyond our daily world to a non material realm, which is not   easy to describe or explain to anyone who believes strongly in only this   physical world.

After finding our awareness free of thought and   feeling, meditation continues exploring this space which seems to grow beyond   our body, beyond the room we are in, growing indefinitely out from our heart.   Like a tunnel from darkness to light, as we meditate we find the narrow world of   our thought and feeling expanding. There is a space of increasing peace. This   peace deepens as we enter into the river of our awareness. Before we know it,   the river becomes an ocean of being. We find more and more lightness of being.   Our mind is recognized as not the source of who we are. In fact our mind is a   filter limiting our experience of something greater.

When we slow down and sit in meditation we cannot help   but review our thoughts and feelings. We see clearly the story ruling our life.   But in the big sky of awareness, the clouds of thought and feeling are not so   important. There is a whole sky and universe to explore. We feel pulled to move   on into a realm of expansiveness, gentleness, silence where the only sound is   one of being, sacredness.

Two questions stand out. What about people who have a   near-death experience and do not find a great love but much darker realms? Many   people who meditate also do not find a vastness of love but instead find   themselves stuck in mental realms of worry, depression, and inner struggle. For   both it is eventually small steps towards love, light, forgiveness which   eventually free them. Meditation, receiving qualities of heart, softens the   conflicts of our personality. Something greater is found in the simple act of   sitting in peace and feeling the presence of one&#39;s heart. And why is it that   near-death experiences appear to be so much more vivid and real than most   encounters with meditation? When people almost die their minds are nearly or   completely shut down. The filter that limits awareness is literally turned off.   At best when we meditate, the filter of our ego is turned down and the inner   silence of our heart is turned up. With meditation it is a gradual process as   the heaviness of thought and feeling is thinned by the magnitude of the gentle   emptiness and quietude that is discovered. Heavenly peace and love unfold the   less mental and more heart full our meditation.

Our heart is the living room to explore. Many   meditators have an experience of finally coming home. We have found our true   home which is very different from anything our daily world can offer. As we let   go into an inner peace, a realm of greater peace is present. We may see or feel   gardens of love where each flower is alive, breathing an immense fragrance of   life and joy. There is a ground of being discovered in meditation. The ground of   our awareness can be described to be made of brilliant light, goldenness or a   sky of stars and diamonds. This light and jewels are the essence of our true   awareness. There is a ground of being of pure treasure in each of us. In   meditation this Heavenly essence and much more is found in our awareness. I and   me are understood to be we, all, and everything. All of life is interwoven and   interconnected. There is no separation, no judgment, nor possible failing. In   meditation we enjoy a natural innocence, trust, and completeness.

As with those who have near-death experiences,   scientists and other thinkers will say these experiences are only fantasy, our   imagination. But for meditators we can feel the difference. We are not making up   these experiences as one makes up a fantasy. These experiences are like lucid   dreams but they are not dreams. In meditation we are leaving known parts of our   awareness and finding something else present. Our awareness includes both the   human and the divine.

We can escape the relatively heavy and darker world of   ordinary life and receive a vast lightness every time we unplug, take a break,   and go into the stillness and beauty within. Like people who have a near-death   experience a bell rings. We must come back. There is a daily life to lead. But   our meditation experience has changed us. We feel more connected to the essence   of life. We find more simplicity, humility, compassion, and of course joy. Life   is precious. There is chocolate and there is a place of perfect love. It is not   an idea, a belief, but an actual experience. Every time we feel the presence of   our hearts we are brother and sister to everyone who has had a near-death   experience. We are a brother and sister to everyone.

We invite you to join us in a sanctuary of   silence, nature, and heartfulness meditation at      Silent Stay  near Napa,   California and Assisi, Italy.

For more from Bruce Davis, Ph.D.,        click here .

    Silent Stay Retreat Home &amp; Hermitage

    3570 Cantelow Road

    Vacaville, California &nbsp;95688

    707-474-4833

    www.Silentstay.com     </body>  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/NDERF/Articles/meditation_nde.htm