{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/NDERF\/Articles\/hindu_skepticim.htm","mytitle":"Hindu Skepticim","mylang":"de"}
          	Hindu Skepticim                    	            		

  A New Look at Some Hindu Concepts, by V. Krishnan    
  Home Page  Current NDEs  Share NDE</span>     	</tr>

  'Ultimate reality.&nbsp; Mystical experience.   Monism.&nbsp; Is this world immoral? Afterlife. Reincarnation. Karma. Salvation.   Prayer'

  Preface

  This brief work grew out of conversations   which a number of people had had with me over several years at various places.   One of them who had kept notes sent them to me recently with a request that I   put them together with a view to publishing them in book form. Strictly speaking   then, this is not the work, of a single individual, but of several people.

  There are two reasons for adopting the   dialogue form. One is that it helped to make the work short. The other is that   some of those who had read an earlier version of it said that, despite their   unfamiliarity with the subject, the dialogue mode helped to hold their interest.

  I am indebted to MC. Ranianarayanan PhD on   two counts. Although he does not agree with many of my views expressed in the   book he translated it into Malayalam at my request. Further, he helped to   correct a factual error I had made concerning Swami Vivekananda.

  V. Krishnan

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

  X: I've been going to lectures on what are   usually called spiritual matters, well, for about ten years now, ever since I   retired from my job. Frankly, I'm still not sure what the speakers were talking   about, You hear statements like this world - the whole universe ' is only an   appearance, there is a reality behind it ' the ultimate reality 'to understand   what it is is the goal of life, that is, moksha, or ananda, a   permanent state in which you are untouched by happiness or the opposite of it,   and that, you come to realize, is true happiness. And so on. I don't see any   connection between the ultimate reality, if there is any such thing, and   happiness. It seems to me that the ultimate reality is something you are likely   to find out in the laboratory, or by reasoning. What has it got to do with your   happiness? I did seek clarification, and I was told that it was not something to   be discussed; you had to experience it; there were ways to do it - meditation   and soon. I'm not at al convinced.

  Y: Why did you go to those lectures at all?

  X: I was curious about the presumed reality   behind appearance, an idea which figures in the lectures of Swami Vivekananda   and many other lecturers on Hindu philosophy. What has it got to do with your   daily life? I try to live without consciously hurting anyone, to the extent   possible, that is, and try to cooperate with others so that our lives will be   peaceful. Isn't that enough?

  Y: You seem to know what you want to do. So   what is the problem? Many people don't know what they are looking for.

  X: There are two problems, actually. One,   many people widely acknowledged to be 'holy,' seem to suggest that there is more   to life than what I said. Two, it isn't easy to practice what I said I would   like to do.

  Y: That word 'holy' doesn't mean anything to   me. They may be experts in their fields, let's say philosophy, hut they are no   holier than experts in other fields such as physics, economics, or artificial   intelligence. No more holy than you who is an expert in constitutional law. So   you needn't feel inferior to them. And neither you nor they are infallible.

  &nbsp;X: I get your point about holiness. But, not   being an expert in matters philosophical, I'm unable to judge if they are   correct or not.

  Y: That's an admirably cautious attitude. As   for your other question, you surely must have heard of the middle way or the way   of nonattachment, haven't you?

  X: Yes, giving up desires, comforts, good   food, in short breaking the bondage to worldly things.

  Y: I'm afraid you've got it all wrong. Or,   you may have been misled. You don't have to give up everything and take to   extreme asceticism. There is no merit in asceticism. Enjoying a good meal is   like enjoying the beauty of a glorious sunset. Nonattachment should be   understood as an attitude of taking things in your stride, without being   depressed by adversities or overjoyed by good luck, doing things without   self-interest. Said another way, you don't insist that you must have this or   that, but will still do things to the best of your ability and enjoy doing them.   It is a positive attitude, not indifference. If you cultivate such an outlook,   you'll feel a wonderful of freedom, a marvelous feeling of peace. That is my   view of moksha or salvation, the way out of dukha or sorrow. You   can develop this attitude by using your head - reason. There is no other sure,   safe way.

  X: Three questions. One, are you nonattached   in this sense? Two, suppose you suffer a personal calamity, like, say the death   of someone dear to you, how would you face it? Three, isn't your view of   moksha different from that held by many others - that samadhi, or   experiencing your identity with the ultimate reality, is salvation?

  Y: The answer to the first question is 'yes,'   to some extent. I feel kind of free, relaxed, like when you feel that a   long-standing problem has been solved. It doesn't make me indifferent to anyone,   anything, a sort of automaton. The second question: it is unnatural not to feel   normal human emotions. I did experience a great sense of loss when my only child   died a few years ago. He was only sixteen. But, then, I reasoned with myself:   I'm likely to face various types of pluses and minuses during the rest of my   life and I've to take them in my stride. I shouldn't let misfortunes shatter me,   I shouldn't be carried away by good fortune. So far I've succeeded. As for the   third question, procedures like meditation, breath control, austerities,   pooja, reading purana, japa, etc., which are employed to induce   samadhi, or mystical experience, have nothing to do with moksha in   the sense I understand it.

  X: Why do you think that your view of   moksha is correct?

  Y: A good question. The purpose of all our   endeavors is, basically, to achieve psychophysical well-being. Peace, calm,   contentment are some of the other words used to convey the same idea. It is   commonsense, of course, and incidentally, you will find it mentioned in the   first verse of Iswarakrishna's Samkhyakarika (1) which, as you may know,   is the classic textbook on the Samkhya system of philosophy. The question is -   what is the most practical way to achieve it? If you think deeply about it, you   will find that the best way is nonattachment - the middle way. It requires only   the use of reason, and it doesn't harm the body or the mind. Now, if you   carefully examine the techniques used to induce the mystical experience, you   will find that they interfere with the normal functioning of the brain. Such   interference may not be good in the long run just as trying to slow down or   increase the rate of heartbeat at will is not.

  X: But, raja yoga is widely acknowledged as a   method of attaining Samadhi. Even Vivekananda, who placed great emphasis   on reason, approved of it.

  Y: Have you undergone samadhi?

  X: No.

  Y: Have you read accounts of the experience?

  X: Yes, of course. In some books - William   James(2) Agehananda Bharati (3), and a few others. The most common elements, as   I remember, are these. Most often the experience starts with a feeling that   something very significant is going to happen to you. You feel that your body   boundary is fading and you are merging with the rest of the constituents of the   universe. An intense sense of wellbeing, often described as ananda, or   bliss, or euphoria, is felt. That may last for several hours, even after you   have regained normal consciousness. Many experiencers have said that they   perceived a very brilliant light, not visually though. At some point you feel   that you are aware of nothing except the fact that you are fully conscious. This   experience is expressed in terms like - I felt that I was nothing but   consciousness; I was just 'being.' This experience - 'just being' - 'pure   consciousness' - is said to represent the ultimate nature of every constituent   of the universe.

  Y: That's a very good summary. Now, it's my   turn to ask you a few questions First of all, how do you confirm that ' being'   is the ultimate reality?

  X: Normally, we acquire knowledge about an   object through our senses. For example, you see a ripe tomato colored red. Some   people, however, see it as a sort of grey; they are said to be blind to the   color red. Now, what actually is its color? All that you can say is that most   people see it as red, but some people don't. There is no absolute certainty   about its color, about who is correct and who is not. It is therefore held that   sensory knowledge is incomplete. Now, it is believed that if you can perceive   without the use of your senses, you will be able to see things as they actually   are, that is, in their 'pure state.' This pure state is 'being- bliss.' Such   knowledge is called 'direct knowledge,' knowledge unmediated by the senses. This   is samdhi or mystical experience. Raja yoga employs certain techniques   like pratyahara 'withdrawal of senses' - for the purpose of obtaining   direct knowledge.

  Y: But how do you ascertain that it is indeed   direct knowledge that you obtain, and not a kind of hallucination caused by   pratyahara? In other words, it is not one of the ways in which the brain   responds to the sensory deprivation resulting from pratyhara and other   measures?

  X: A number of experiencers have said that   they are convinced that they have had direct knowledge.

  Y: Conviction is not proof, you know.   Further, have you tried to find out whether those experiencers have considered   other interpretations? Is it because they found all of them wanting that they   accepted the ultimate reality explanation?

  X: No, I haven't tried to find out. I have   actually met three people who have claimed to have had the mystical experience,   one of them two or three times, but it did not occur to me to ask such probing   questions.

  Y: If you haven't examined alternative   explanations, how can you judge that the ultimate reality explanation is the   correct one? You cannot say that jilebee is the best sweet dish in the   world if you haven't eaten other kinds of sweets, can you?

  X: No, I see your point.

  Y: Assuming that the mystical experience   represents the ultimate reality, how does it help you face life's problem with   equanimity?

  X: Well, as far as I could understand, the   answer is this. When you have found out your real nature, which is   'being-bliss,' you will feel convinced that what is happening to you, whether   pleasant or unpleasant, can only be an appearance and cannot affect the 'real'   you. You are untouched by anything happening to you or around you.

  Y: It sounds like imagining that things are   happening to somebody else, not to you. Can you do it if you are suffering from,   say, a very painful disease?

  X: I understand your point. Now, earlier, you   said that the methods employed to induce samadhi would interfere with the   normal functioning of the brain. Why did you say so?

  Y: I was only cautioning you against blindly   accepting a view, which has not been critically examined. What instructors in   raja yoga tell you is to stop all mental activity by shutting off or at least   ignoring, information that is, stimuli, from outside and inside yourself The   latter are visions or hallucinations, or such phenomena, produced by the brain.   Is it advisable? You see, for the brain to function normally - 'normal' means   statistically the most common manner - it requires a steady inflow of   information of varied nature. If the input changes from the norm, which may vary   from person to person, the brain functions abnormally. Deviation from the norm   may take place indifferent ways, for example, the input of stimuli may be   monotonous, very feeble, too much, like very loud, rapid drumming. There is   considerable evidence for abnormal working of the brain from the laboratory and   everyday life in conditions of sensory deprivation and sensory overload (4). The   brain's abnormal reaction may take different forms: the subject may hallucinate,   fall asleep, become unconscious, or may feel that his essential aspect, or soul,   separates from the body and perceives it and the immediate surroundings from a   position above the plane of the body. Acute sensory deprivation may even unhinge   the mind. One researcher, Jack Vernon (5), has suggested that total stoppage of   sensory stimuli, if it can be achieved, may lead to death. Hallucinations and   the feeling of seeing the body from outside it out of body experience - could be   regarded as the brain's attempt to correct the deviation in information input   from the norm (6). So could be the various elements of the mystical experience -   the feeling of seeing a brilliant light, the feeling of Yourself merging with   the rest of the universe, the feeling that you are aware of nothing except the   fact that you are fully conscious, etc. You may ask why the feeling of ananda   occurs during samadhi, if what I am saying is correct If you study the   accounts of mystical experience that occurred spontaneously, that is, without   employing any technique such as raja yoga, you will find that in many cases it   happened during intense positive or negative stress. The stress may be mental or   physical. To cite just one example, Swami Vivekananda had one of his mystical   experiences when he was in the grip of great negative stress (7). Stress, from   the brain's point of view, is any phenomenon that poses a threat to its normal   functioning. One of the ways in which the brain responds is by producing the   affect ananda or euphoria. This, as you know, is a biochemical process.   One of the reasons why it is caused is found to be that it helps to conserve the   energy reserves of the stress victim and this assists in his recovery (8). It   makes sense. I do not find any other satisfactory reason for mountain climbers   who fall from great heights to experience ananda, pleasant visions and   the like just before hitting the ground (9). There are also other arguments   against regarding the mystical experience as the ultimate reality. For example,   a thought or any other mental event is the way we experience a certain pattern   of brainwaves and accompanying biochemical events (10). Now, nothing in the   body, or elsewhere, stands still. So mental activity is a normal ceaseless   phenomenon; to try to stop it, or reduce it to an unnatural extent, is to   interfere with a natural function of the brain. Can such an unnatural procedure   employed to induce the mystical experience be beneficial?

  X: Do you mean to say that the propensity of   the mind, that is, thoughts, to wander should not he controlled?

  Y: To try to stop all mental activity cannot   be beneficial. The mind's 'wandering' is to be understood as one of the   mechanisms that help prevent sensory deprivation.

  X: It appears from what you say that we   cannot draw any certain conclusions about the ultimate nature of things - the   universe - from the mystical experience. O.K. But isn't there anything like an   ultimate stuff from which everything we see around us came? Scientists are said   to be looking for it.

  Y: Not all scientists think that there is   something like an ultimate reality. You'll find that mentioned in any good hook   on what is called 'new physics,' books like Capra's The Tao of Physics (Let me   add that everything the authors of such works say about the philosophical   implications of new physics should not be accepted uncritically. Some of them   like Eddington (12) get carried away and make misleading statements which some   Indian writers on Indian philosophy uncritically quote. You can yourself find   out the answer to your question by simple reasoning. I shall tell you one   method. Can you wipe anything out of existence?

  X: No, it's impossible. Things will only   change in one way or another whatever may be the process you subject them to.

  Y: It means that there cannot have been a   time without something (one or more entities) in existence. If that is the case,   how can you determine what the first entity was from which the rest arose? How   can you find out the ultimate nature of anything that keeps changing   ceaselessly?

  X: But there is some stuff with which things   are constituted, isn't there? What is it? There are various kinds of mud pots,   but the substance common to all of them is clay. So clay can be said to be the   source material.

  Y: No. At one level of analysis you find what   you call clay, at another level molecules of the constituents of clay, at still   another level of analysis atoms, and so on. And all these things are undergoing   change without stop. The very process of analysis involves interaction with   them, which obviously alters them. Furthermore, methods of analysis may become   more and more extensive and precise in the future, and you get new answers. I   don't see the end of the road.

  X: There are two questions I'd like to ask   you. Why do things keep changing? You can notice change only if there is a   permanent unchanging background. That background is the ultimate reality.

  Y: We saw the universe, meaning all that is,   was not created out of nothing, that things existing at any point of time could   have arisen only from pre-existing things. It means, in a nutshell, that   entities that constitute the universe have something in common. In other words,   all of them are interrelated. It follows that any alteration in any one of them   cannot but affect another in some way or other, sooner or later. This process   goes on nonstop. Thus change is inevitable. It's rather like a swinging   pendulum; there is never a moment of absolute standstill. I find this a   marvelous phenomenon. As for the second question, there is no need for a   changeless permanent background: two different rates of change will enable you   to appreciate change.

  X: Do you think that life also had no   beginning?

  Y: Since nothing can arise from total   emptiness we have to assume that the potential for the emergence of a living   organism must have been inherent in the environment in which it appeared. What   we call life is a property that became observable when certain entities came   together in a particular way. This is one of the reasons why some of our ancient   inquirers, or philosophers, said that everything was instinct with chaitanyam.   The word here means, 'that which causes movement.' Of course chaitanyam   does not exist apart from an entity, in a free state. That is a matter which is   often forgotten or not understood. Hence, unintelligible views like   consciousness, which is another meaning of chaitanyam, or life force or  prana, etc. is the ultimate reality.

  X: A few days back we touched on the question   whether there is a purpose in the universe, and you said you did not see any   except what we attributed to the various phenomena. Judging from the   evolutionary process it seems to me that the trend is towards more and more   complexity - higher and higher the levels of organization- unicellular   organisms, multicellular ones, organisms with what looks like only rudimentary   awareness, those with consciousness like us humans. How can we account for this   trend if there is no purpose in the process of evolution?

  Y: How do you decide whether something is   complex in its organization or not? Is an atom less complex than a human being?   Is it easier to explain an atom or an ant than a human being?

  X: Don't you think that humans are at the top   of the evolutionary ladder? Some of the Hindu scriptures say so. Many scientists   also think so.

  Y: According to certain criteria, yes. But   there is nothing unalterable about them; they may be changed from time to time.   Suppose you judge by the standard of ability to live in harmony with the   environment. Where do we stand? I should think way at the bottom. If we choose   another criterion, say, ability to write poetry, well, we are without doubt at   the top. There are no absolute standards in these matters.

  X: We find order wherever we look. Planets,   for example, keep to their orbits; mango trees produce only mangoes. Disorder,   gradually, sometimes suddenly too, gives place to order. Don't you think that   these facts suggest the existence of some sort of guiding intelligence in the   universe? Of course, this, is only another word for God or some such superhuman   entity.

  Y: Ask a physicist about planetary orbits and   he will exploit them in terms of facts known in physics without resorting to any   God. To try to explain them by invoking a superhuman agency is like attributing   the cause of epilepsy to an evil spirit.

  X: It is held in the samkhya system of Indian   philosophy that there are two different mutually exclusive orders of reality -  prakriti and purusha. All phenomena are said to be the result of   their interaction. Don't you think that in such a scheme of the universe, one of   them can be regarded as cosmic intelligence?

  Y: It is also held in the samkhya that   purusha and prakriti are inseparable. If they are inseparable, if   they can interact, they cannot be regarded as two different orders of reality.   So I'd say that we have to reinterpret the samkhya view as follows. There is   only one order of reality, or stuff, and the terms purusha and   prakriti denote its different sets of properties. These labels don't really   matter. You see, the differences we notice between objects are in respect of   properties. For example, water, frost, ice and snow look different from one   another and their properties are not the same, but they all belong to the same   order of stuff we presently call the physical order. Since there is only one   order of stuff, no matter what you call it, all phenomena should be explicable   in terms of it. What you call universal intelligence, or God, whatever cannot be   an exception.

  X: If there is only one order of stuff, what   is the meaning of the view that this world of objects is an illusion or   delusion?

  Y: As we saw earlier, there is no constituent   of the universe, which does not undergo change continuously. So, strictly   speaking, you are not perceiving exactly the same entity every time you look at   it, however brief the interval. You may not notice any change, but it does   occur. It is this fact that is sought to be conveyed by ill chosen words like   illusion, delusion, etc.

  X: If there is nothing that does not undergo   change, you don't survive after death and live eternally as suggested in many   religious texts. Even reincarnation, which is one of the basic tenets of   Hinduism has to be ruled out. If you are right, what is the explanation of cases   of children recalling a previous life?

  Y: It can happen. Dr. Ian Stevenson of the   University of Virginia in USA and his associates have systematically   investigated such reports from many parts of the world, and one of their   conclusions is that there is considerable substance in many of them (13). What   it implies is that when a person dies a factor that carries his vasanas -   memories, experiences, thoughts, aptitudes, etc - may survive and become united   with an entity in another person that eventually grows into a child- But there   is no reason to think that the surviving factor is a changeless or conscious   element. In the Hindu tradition it is held that the lingasareera, the   surviving factor, is a physical entity. Naturally, it follows that it is bound   to decay, sooner or later. There are indications in several of Stevenson's   findings about the characteristics of reincarnation - type cases that the   surviving factor will disintegrate over time. All this has been pointed out in   certain research articles that try to reinterpret the idea of postmortem   survival. The substance of those articles is that the surviving element is a   record of what goes on in the mind of a person at the time of his death, that it   is not a sentient entity, and when it becomes associated with another person the   latter may remember the events etc recorded on it. He is then said to be the   reincarnation of the deceased person. They also indicate that reinterpretation   of reincarnation cases as well as some of the survival-related phenomena like   apparitions along these lines is scientifically plausible (14). Of course, this   is not Stevenson's view. Those articles suggest that if the surviving factor is   not sentient, then there can be no afterlife on the lines envisaged in much of   the survivalist literature.

  X: What about the karma theory - what   you are in this birth determined by your actions in a past life or lives?

  Y: Since there is no rebirth as the word is   popularly understood, the karma theory can only mean that every action has an   effect in this life. Good actions are likely to lead to good effects, evil   actions to effects.

  X: According to you, then, the idea of   salvation as a release from the cycle of birth and rebirth is meaningless.

  Y: Yes. There is no rebirth in the   traditional sense of the word. So no question of a cycle of birth and rebirth   and release from it.

  X: Since there is only one order of stuff and   we are all it, bhakti, worship, prayer, and soon are pointless in your   view, I suppose.

  Y: I don't pray or worship. But others may   have a psychological need for bhakti. They should satisfy it. I suppose   you know that the word bhakti is used in different senses. In   Vivekachoodaamani, for example, is described as concentrated effort to find   out one's true nature (15). Then it is employed in the sense of overwhelming   devotion to a personal deity. Bhakti is also what young gopis felt   for the boy Sri Krishna - a sort of intense yearning, verging on the erotic. The  Geeta, however, seems to discountenance such excessive emotionalism (16).   That is in agreement with the overall Hindu and Buddhist view - it is best to   follow the middle way in all spheres of life.

  X: Why do people have a psychological need   for bhakti?

  Y: There are a number of reasons. One that I   wish to emphasize is the fact that you cannot control all your circumstances in   your favor. That can be a source of nagging anxiety, acute stress. So whom can   you approach for a solution? Other people, friends, for example. But they also   have limitations like you. Realization of this fact is one of the main reasons   for man inventing an entity without limitations. You appeal to him, worship him,   trust him to find a solution to your problem. Most likely you'll feel relieved.   It is better to worship a God you have invented than to try to seek relief from   your anxiety in alcohol or narcotics which will only ruin you. So then bhakti   and all that goes with it - going to places of worship, making offerings to   Gods, and so on - do serve a useful purpose. Bhakti is only one of the   human responses to the problem of controlling one's circumstances in one's   favor. There are, for example, people who prefer to find solutions to their   problems using their heads. Bhaktas should not expect others to he   bhaktas too. What is meat to you, may be poison to another. Another thing to   keep in mind is that anything in excess can have negative effects. People who   become obsessed with bhakti, rituals, religious observances, chanting of   God's names and so on often seem to think they have established a 'hot line'   with God and therefore nothing else matters. They become too much self-centered   because they are all the time thinking of themselves, their so-called salvation;   they become dehumanized. It is mindless bhakti. An example of it as the   use of loudspeakers at full volume to broadcast bhajans, religious   discourses, recorded kirtans and the like at places of worship. Those who   engage in such activities are denying others their right to calm and quiet.   Whatever you do, whether to satisfy your need for bhakti or anything else   should not disturb others. If it does, it is an antisocial activity.

  X: Nowadays most spiritual instructors seem   to recommend, even insist upon, bhaktimarga rather than the use of   reason.

  Y: I suspect many of them don't know better.   There could be another reason also. They would like people to treat them as   surrogate Gods, and they are afraid that people will not do so if they begin to   use their heads. In other spheres of activity also, politics, for example, you   will find that the men at the top subtly discourage rational and independent   thinking in their followers for fear that they will lose their hold on them.

  X: There could be more to worship and prayer   than getting relief from anxiety. There are several accounts of people finding   solutions to their problems as a hunch, a dream and the like as a result of   prayer.

  Y: It is true. It's like a scientist working   on a scientific problem getting an answer in a dream a vision, There is, for   example, the case of the German chemist Friedrich Kekule who had been trying for   many years to find out the molecular structure of benzene dreaming of the   solution as he dozed in front of a crackling fire one cold night. The   German-born physiologist Otto Loewi dreamed of an experiment that helped him   determine that nervous impulses in the body were transmitted chemically. There   are a number of books on the subject of creative process, you know (17). The   point to note is that the answers to your problems come from yourself. This only   increases the marvel that a human being is. Vivekananda is one of the few monks,   perhaps the only monk, who clearly stated this fact. He said, 'Christs and   Buddhas are simply occasions upon which to objectify our own inner powers. We   really answer our own prayers.' (18)

  X: I understand from what you have said at   our discussions that the chanting of mantra, syllables like am, and such   procedures are unnecessary for following the middle way.

  Y: You're right. You have to use reason to   follow the way of nonattachment, to cultivate equanimity. The techniques you   mentioned- there are more - are employed to induce an altered state of   consciousness - the mystical experience - which, as we saw earlier, has nothing   to do with the middle way. I think a word of caution is necessary against   harmless-seeming procedures like the chanting of om. It is true that   certain frequencies of sound can have beneficial effects by way of starting   certain biochemical processes, but a frequency that suits your instructor may   not be good for you, and you will not know this for a long time until adverse   effects begin to show up. A few years ago, I was introduced to a person who went   into what seemed to be an epileptic fit if he listened to the monotonously   rhythmic recitation of the 'Venkateswara Suprabhatam' for a couple of minutes,   or even less, no matter who recited it. Certain chants are meant to disrupt the   normal working of the brain and put you in an altered state of consciousness,   like the out of body experience which is misinterpreted as the separation of the   soul from the body. Systematic research in the area of effects of sound on   humans has only begun. You should not assume, without proper investigation, that   the chanting of this or that set of words or listening to it is beneficial to   you.

  X: I've read in books and also heard at   lectures that a 'realized' person feels that there is no difference in any   respect between himself and anything else in the rest of the world. Is it   possible to feel such identity? I have my doubts, because we are born as   separate entities and we live as separate persons. I haven't been able to ask   anyone reputed to be a 'realized' person simply because I couldn't get near   them. I tried a few times without success. They all seemed to be always   surrounded by bigwigs or functionaries of their establishments whose chief   function appeared to he to keep small fry like me out of their immediate   vicinity.

  Y: The phrase 'realized person' means nothing   to me. Speaking for myself, I don't feel that I am you or the rest of the   universe, and I suppose that's the case with others too This is to be expected   because, as you said, differentiation is an evolutionary fact. The me-not-me   difference exists even at micro levels, otherwise organ transplants, for   instance, would succeed without exception.&nbsp; It doesn't happen. But the   feeling of being separate individuals should not prevent us from using our heads   and trying to make our interpersonal relationships smooth. Feelings like you   have merged with the rest of the universe or your body boundary has dissolved,   which you may experience in an altered state of consciousness, have no   ontological significance. They are similar to sensations like you are floating   or flying in the air that sometimes occur in situations of depleted supply of   blood oxygen to the brain such as respiratory problems or prolonged retention of   breath during pranayama.

  X: I suppose you don't think there are   miracles, you know, phenomena which can be explained only by postulating a   nonphysical agency.

  Y: No. What do you mean by 'nonphysical?' Do   you know all the properties of the physical order of reality or stuff?

  X: No. We know some, not all.

  Y: Then, how can you he certain that there is   another order of stuff?

  X: I see your point.

  Y: The universe is monistic. So, as I said   before, it should be possible to explain all phenomena in terms of a single   order of stuff. I'd say there are only two broad categories of phenomena: those   we don't understand at present and those we do.

  X: What about miraculous cures? You pray on a   patient's behalf, or the patient himself prays, and the disease considered   incurable suddenly, or gradually, clears up.

  Y: I've already answered your question.   Instead of remaining content thinking that God or some God-man cured the disease   we should get down to the business of trying to find out the process underlying   the cure. Serious research is being done in this field in some western countries   (19).

  X: What about claims of ability to   materialize objects out of the air, things like rings, watches, lockets, and so   on?

  Y: If the performer refuses to reveal how he   does it or to undergo tests to find out the underlying process he is engaging in   sleight of hand, he is trying to exploit your gullibility.

  X: There is mention of siddhis in the  patanjali Sutras, you know. So there must be something to them.

  Y: Just because something is mentioned in an   ancient work it doesn't necessarily mean that it is the last word on it.   Anything a human being is able to do is a human phenomenon. There is no   superhuman agency at work. All those siddhis mentioned in the   Patanjali Sutras are not to be taken literally- Some of them are private   realities, that is, what the practitioner of Patanjali yoga feels he has   done, such as becoming very small. They are not publicly verifiable. If you   think that I am wrong you can arrange a demonstration. I shall then revise my   opinion. Theory and experiment should go hand in hand.

  X: Why is there so much emphasis on celibacy   in the Bible tradition? Some thinkers even go to the extent of saying that total   continence is a condition of achieving samadhi or 'self realization.' It   doesn't make sense to me.

  Y: It doesn't make sense to me either. What   are your objections?

  X: Well, for one thing, sex is a natural   function.&nbsp; Then we find many of the wise men or rishis mentioned in   the upanishads were married.&nbsp; Some of them even had more than one wife. I   suppose the prohibition derives from the misguided asceticism of so called   God-seekers.

  Y: I agree with you. Speaking from my own   experience, married life, properly conducted, can be a source of great happiness   for both partners. If you are not married and don't have children you miss a   great deal. No sanyasin knows how a parent feels about his or her child. Those   who are against sex forget the fact that man and woman complement each other. Of   course, anything in excess is bad. Sex, too, should not become an obsessive   need.

  X: I noticed that, unlike many others, you   don't cite the scriptures or ancient philosophers to support your views.

  Y: You see, I'm simply stating my views   arrived at by simple reasoning. I'm not trying to explain any scriptural   opinion, or to refute them. I regard the Hindu scriptures - the upanishads and   so on - as records of discussions held by curious, intelligent persons at   different times. Some of what I have said derives from these discussions; I have   modified some of what the ancients said and tried not to use the traditional   jargon which can be confusing today. If you find anything illogical in what I   have said you can correct me. My views are open to revision. So are the   scriptural views, and some thinkers like Sankaracharya and Vivekananda have   pointed out that fact. But many people ignore it or intentionally suppress it.

  X: The scriptures are said to be shruti,   some of them, I mean - what is revealed by a 'higher power'-and are therefore   more authoritative than what reason can tell you. At least that's what I'm told   by the pundits.

  Y: We saw earlier that there is no 'higher   power' as the phrase is commonly understood. Actually, what is meant is   intuition. Intuition and reason are not antithetical. In simple terms, intuition   is finding a solution to a problem subconsciously, on the basis of the data you   have collected and reasoned about. You could call the solution shruti. As   said before, all creative people - scientists, poets, and so on - are familiar   with the process. The ancients thought deeply about matters like the origin of   the universe and answers to some of them occurred to them. There is nothing   divine - superhuman - about them. The validity of the answers depends largely on   the data. If the data are altered, by addition or deletion, your conclusions may   have to be modified.

  X: Did you have a preceptor - a guru? It is   held in our tradition that one should have a guru, especially in matters   philosophical.

  Y: Suppose you want to study a new subject,   say, physics. Would you like to have someone to guide you, someone with whom you   can discuss matters concerning your subject? It is up to you to make a decision.   I did not have a guru in the traditional sense, but I had plenty of   opportunities to read books, friends like you to discuss matters with, and   reflect on them.

  X: I've heard so many novel interpretations   from you, so I'd like to know how you would define a true Hindu.

  Y: As I made clear earlier, I haven't said   anything very original. I've only tried to simplify some of the traditional   ideas omitting the old jargon. Next we should not think in terms of religious   groups, like Hindus, Christians, and so on. That will only erect bathers among   people. Instead, we should think in terms of human beings, cultivate tolerance,   keep an open mind, and try to live in harmony with one another and the natural   environment. I think we can do that only if we use our heads - reason.

  References

  I. Iswarakrishna, Samkhyakarika.

  2. William James, Varieties of Religious   Experience. New York, Collier Macmillan, 1961.

  3. Agehananda Bharati, The Light at the   Centre, New Delhi, Vikas Publishing House, 1977.

  4. P. Solomon and Associates (Eds), Sensory   Deprivation,Cambridge, Harvard University Press, 1961.

  5. Jack Vernon, Inside the Black Room,   London, Pelican, 1968.

  6. V.Krishnan. Near-death experiences:   Evidence for survival? Anabiosis: Journal of Near-Death Studies, Spring 1985,   pp. 21-38.

  7. Christopher Isherwood, Sree Ramakrishna   and His Disciples, Calcutta, Advaita Ashrama, 1986.

  8. See 6 above.

  9. Russel Noyes Jr., Dying and mystical   consciousness, Journal of Thanatology, January-February, 1971, pp.25-

  10. I.H.Ornstein, The Mind and the Brain, The   Hague, Martinus Nijhoff, 1972; Michael Hutchison, Megabrain (revised edn), New   York, Ballantine, 1991.

  11. Fritjof Capra, The Tao of Physics,   Berkeley, Shambhala, 1975,

  12. See, for example, Arthur Eddington, The   Nature of the Physical World, 1928,

  13. Ian Stevenson, Children Who Remember   Previous Lives, Charlottesville, University Press of Virginia, 1987

  14. V. Krishnan, A theory of death, Journal   of Near-Death Studies, Winter 1990, pp. 133-134; NDEs in rebirth memories, Vital   Signs, 18(2), 1999, pp.8-9.

  15. Sankaracharya, Vivekachoodamani, verses   31 and 32.

  16. Nataraja Guru, The Rhagavad Gita,   Varkala, Nataraja Guru Publishing House, 1989, particularly Chapter 12, 'Unitive   devotion and contemplation.'

  17. Bernard Ghiselin (Ed.), The Creative   Process, University of California Press, 1952; Stanley Rosner and Lawrence Abt   (Eds), The Creative Experience, Grossman, 1970.

  18. Swami Vivekananda, 'Inspired Talks,'   Complete Works, Vol. 7, Calcutta, Advaita Ashrama, 1964, p.

  19. Cyril W. Smith and S Best,   Electromagnetic Man, London, Dent, 1989; V. Krishnan, On the mind/body problem,   Journal of Near-Death Studies, Winter 1994, pp.

  &nbsp;

&nbsp;    </body>  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/NDERF/Articles/hindu_skepticim.htm