{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/NDERF\/Articles\/islamic_views_death.htm","mytitle":"Islamic Views English","mylang":"de"}
          	Islamic Views English            	            		

Islamic Views on Death with Commentary from Shamas    
  Home Page  Current NDEs  Share NDE</span>     	</tr>

(This   file is in MS word 2000 format and have about 37 pages)

  Following pages are copied from the One of the most Important &amp; Great Islamic   books named as '

  Ihya' 'Ulum al-Din    &nbsp;(Revival of Religious Sciences)    written by&nbsp; a Great Muslim Philosopher, Sufi/Mystic, professor and scholar, Top   most expert of that time 'Imam Al-Ghazali' about 1000 years ago.&nbsp;&nbsp; This   book has 4 volumes.

  Following pages are copied from the end of   chapter 10 of 4th Volume, as these pages are very important and   relevant to NDEs research going on. What following pages depict is correct and   any thing described by NDEs, which is different from following pages, is either   exaggeration or brain deception mind or personality.

  Following pages (Copied from the 10th   chapter of 4th volume of&nbsp; 'Ihya Ulum Al-Din' written 1000 years by   Great Muslim Sufi/Mystic Imam Al-Ghazali) confirms out of body of spirit and to   it disclosure of hidden knowledge after death, confirms life review, confirm the   existence of spirit and its role in human body, and confirm subtle bridge as   stated by one NDE  in the book 'Life beyond ? ' of Dr. Raymond Moody.

  I have read a lot about NDE  and read their countless stories, and have concluded that NDEs stories   consist of TWO portions. First is True and 2nd is False being brain   deception or personality deliberate or un-deliberate exaggeration. For example   Budh  NDE says he saw Budha a loving   light, Chritian NDE  says that he saw JESUS as light e.t.c. I think that part is formed by   NDEs prevailed believes just before death( NDE ). Because logically it is not possible and does not makes sense that one   NDE saw Budha and Other Saw Jesus etc.

  The True part of NDEs is to see loving light (in   Quran it is clearly stated 'Allah(God) is light of earh and universe'.&nbsp; Besides   profit Muhammad said that Allah(God) loves to his pious human more than her/his   parents. Profit Muhammad also gave an example of that love. In battle field if a   child of one mother is lost/disappeared, she searches her child here there every   where, and suddenly she finds her child. How she will meet to her child? Every   one knows how a month first time meets her child first time after once child was   lost. Allah(God) meets with his human (spirit) like this. And all NDEs have   confirmed it. True is also life review.

  NDEs tell us just about a glimpse of Next life   (in fact real life) but then returns back. But they cannot tell us what would   have happened if they had permanent death and had not returned to the earth. So   they gave us info which is just tip of a ice burg . But following pages tell you   all about that complete Ice burg.&nbsp;

  I suggest to print the following pages and read   and UNDERSTAND them at least 3 times. I am very sure that you will be unable to   find such a convincing and true detail in any other book on the face of earth,   which is given in this book. So it will be very helpful in your NDEs research.

    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------   WHAT IS DEATH?
  	 Different opinions about death.   	Know, readers, that different people hold different opinions about death.   	Some say that death destroys everything and that there is no final   	destruction of the world and no Resurrection and that the death of man is   	better than that of birds and beasts, plants and trees. This is the opinion   	of the unbelievers. Another group of men think that death destroys. man and   	from grave to resurrection there will be no reward and punishment. Another   	group of men hold the opinion that human soul does not die and that   	punishment and reward will be awarded on soul and not on body, and that   	there will be no physical resurrection on the Resurrection Day. These   	are all void opinions and far from truth.
  	MEANING OF DEATH : The verses of   	the Quran and Hadis (Saying of prophet pbuh) and knowledge gained by   	experience show that death means change of condition,   	that when soul is separated from body, it receives reward and punishment and   	that the separation of soul from body means loss of power of soul over   	body. The limbs of the body are instruments of soul. It uses them in   	its works. It catches by hands, hears by ears, sees by.eyes and acquire   	knowledge of all things. Soul without these things can know'the relation of   	everything. For this reason soul suffers sorrows and pangs and enjoys   	happiness. There is no connection of these sorrows and happiness with the   	body. The body stripped of powers of works by death is like the limbs which   	become paralysed owing to rheumatism or serious illness. Soul cannot   	exercise influence on them. Knowledge and wisdom remain with soul even after   	death. Death means that all the limbs of the body become disobedient to   	soul. Each limb is an instrument of soul from which it takes works. By soul   	I mean that thing which enjoys happiness and feels sorrow. By death, sense   	of happiness and sorrows remains on soul. By man, we mean his soul which   	retains the sense,of happiness and sorrow. It does not die and will   	not die. Since its creation, it is eternal although it is created.   	Death means separation of body from soul and the body ceasing
  	Vol-IV THE BOOK OF CONSTRUCTIVE VIRTUES 411
  	to be an instrument of soul, as the paralysis of a limb means its ceasing to   	be an instrument of the body. Death means paralysis of all bodily limbs but   	the main thing of a man that is soul, remains.
  	
  	 CAUSES OF CHANGE OF CONDITION AT   	DEATH
  	 There are two causes for this   	change of conditions. (1) The first cause is that all his limbs, ears, nose,   	eyes, tongue etc. are snatched away from him at death, and that he is   	snatched away from all his relatives and friends, and from all his wealth   	Thus there are pangs of separation of dear things of this world and he is   	shifted to another world where he feels pangs of separation in acute form.   	Thus there is change of conditions at death.
  	
  	(2)'The second cause is that the real nature   	of things is disclosed to him after death which was kept hidden from him in   	his life time as what is not disclosed to a sleeping man is disclosed to one   	who is awake.  Men are in sleep   	now and they rise up after death from sleep.    	Then the destroying thing sin and the benefiting   	thing virtue appear before him. Those are recorded in the Book of deeds   	which are kept secret in his soul .    	His engagement in world pursuits kept him   	away from its enquiry. When this engagement is cut off by death, all his   	deeds are disclosed to him. Acutely grieved at his sins, he even prefers to   	throw himself into fire.  He   	may be said at this stage : Your soul is sufficient for account of yourself.   	That becomes vivid at the time of separation of soul and before burial.    	The pang of separation keeps him busy at that time but what he has acquired   	of virtues necessary to take him to the desired abode gives him happiness at   	that time. Such a man does not want but what is actually necessary for him   	in this world. Thus he relieves himself from the pangs of separation before   	his death. After he is buried, his body is returned to his soul,   	so that he may get the taste of punishment and happiness. Some time he is   	forgiven of his sins.
  	
  	MEANING OF  LIFE :   	In order to understand life, soul and its attributes must be known.   	The Prophet did not give permission to discuss about soul except this that   	the soul comes from the command of God. Permission has however been   	given for discussion how the human soul will face after death. From this it   	is known that death does not mean that soul will die with body. There are   	proofs that it will not die. Gods says : Don't consider
  	412 DEATH AND SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Vol-IV
  	those who are killed in God's way as dead, rather they are alive near their   	Lord and are given provision.
  	When some leaders of the Quraish were killed at Badar, the Prophet addressed   	them thus. 0 so and so, 0 so and so, I have found true what my Lord promised   	me. Have you found true what your Lord promised you? He was said : 0 Prophet   	of God, do you address the dead persons? He said : By Him who holds my life,   	they are surely hearing these words, but they cannot reply. This is the   	proof of Shariat about the immortality of soul.
  	The Prophet said: Grave is a hole of Hell or a garden of    	Paradise . This is the proof of Shariat(Islamic law) that  	death means change of condition  and entry of the dead man to   	fortune or misfortune. At the time of death, it comes suddenly without   	delay, but there are some punishments which come late.
  	The Prophet said: Death is a Qiyamat or doomsday. He who dies meets with his   	Qiyamat. The Prophet said : When some one of you   	dies, his place is shown to him morning and evening. If he is a dweller of  	  Paradise, he   	is included in the dwellers of Paradise. If he is fit for Hell, he is said :   	This is your place till you are Resurrected on the Resurrection Day. If one   	sees two places, punishment and happiness are not concealed from him. Hazrat   	Ali said : It is prohibited for a man to go out of this world till he knows   	his place either in Hell or in    	Paradise .  Abu Hurairah reported   	that the Prophet had said : He who dies in journey, dies a martyr. The   	punishment of his grave is forgiven and his provision comes morning and   	evening from paradise.
  	There is complete joy and happiness for a martyr-who is killed for the way   	and cause of God, as he has cut off all connections of the world and   	advanced for Jehad to seek the pleasure of God and being eager to meet Him.   	God says: 'What they desire will get'. There is description of all sorts of   	happiness in this verse.
  	The Prophet said to Jaber : 0 Jaber, shall I not give you a good news? He   	said : Yes. He said : God gives you good news. He says that He kept alive   	your father and keeps him seated before Him and says : 0 My servant, seek   	what you desire, I shall give it to you. He said : 0 my Lord. I could not   	serve you due to you. I hope that you should return me again in the world   	that I may fight a long with your Prophet and again be a martyr for your   	pleasure. God said to him: It is my law that you cannot return there again.
  	Vol-IV THE BOOK OF CONSTRUCTIVE VIRTUES 413
  	Once when a man died, the Prophet said : This man   	has gone from the world and left it for his family members. If he is please   	there, he will dislike to return to it again as someone of you dislikes to   	return to his mother's womb. The Prophet said : A believer lives in the   	world like a foetus in mother's womb. When it comes out of it, it begins to   	cry and when it sees light, it dislikes to return to its former place.   	Similar is the condition of a believer. When he sees and meets his Lord, he   	dislikes to return to the world as a child dislikes to return to his   	mother's womb. The companion Abu Sayyed Khodri said : I heard the Prophet   	say The dead man sees one who washes him, who carries him and who places him   	in the grave.
  	  TALK OF GRAVE TOWARDS A   	DEAD MAN 
  	The Prophet said: When a dead man is placed in the grave, it says : 0 son of   	Adam, woe to you! Who kept you forgetful of Me? Don't you know that l am the   	abode of sorrows and sufferings, of intense darkness, of worms and insects?   	Why did you fear so much when you walked by my side? The Prophet said : A   	dead man sits in the grave and hears the footsteps of the living men. He   	does not talk with them, but his grave says : 0 son of Adam, woe to you! did   	nobody warns you of my narrow space, of stenchy and fearful condition of my   	worms and insects? What have you then prepared for me?
  	PUNISHMENT OF GRAVE  AND  QUESTIONS OF
  	MONKAR AND NAKIR (name of 2 angles)
  	 Hazrat Bara'a bin-Ajib reported:   	The Prophet came out along with us to pray funeral prayer of an Ansar. He   	sat by his grave and said thrice : 0 God, we seek refuge to you from the   	punishment of the grave. Then he said : When a believer advances towards the   	next world, God sends to him some angels with bright faces like the sun.   	They carry for him scent and coffin. They take their seats so far as the   	eyesight goes. When his life goes out, every angel of heaven and earth send   	blessings on him and the doors of heaven are opened up for him. There is no   	such door as does not greet to take his soul through it. It says : 0 Lord,   	this is Thy servant. Then He says : Return him, show him the honour I have   	prepared for him as I promised it. From this I have created you and unto it   	I shall return you. When they depart, he hears their footsteps. He is then   	asked : 0 servant, who is your
  	414 DEATH AND SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Vol-IV
  	Lord! What is your religion? Who is your Prophet? He says : My Lord is   	Allah, my religion is Islam and my Prophet is Muhammad. These questions are   	asked in a very strong and stern manner. This is the last calamity which   	appears to a dead man. When he utters this, a proclaimer says : You have   	spoken the truth. To this effect, God says, God confirms those who believe   	with established formula.
  	Then someone with cheerful countenance and dressed with fragrant cloths says   	: Take good news of blessings of your Lord and Paradise  of lasting peace. He'asked him: May God give you good news, who are you?   	He says : I am your pious deeds. By God, I don't know. If you were hasty in   	divine service and made delay in committing sins, may God give you reward of   	good. Then a proclaimer proclaims : Spread out abed of    	Paradise  for him and open a door for him towards    	Paradise . Then he says : 0 God, bring the Resurrection very soon, so that I may   	return to my family members and wealth soon.
  	When an unbeliever advances towards the next world and cuts off connections   	with the world an angel with an hideous and ugly look comes to him with   	clothes of fire and shirt of tar to cover him with. When his life comes out,   	the angels of heaven and earth curse him and the doors of heaven are closed   	against him. When his soul is taken up, it suddenly falls down. Then it is   	said : 0 Lord, the heaven and earth do not accept the so-called servant of   	yours. God says : Return him and show him the punishment I have kept   	prepared for him. From it (earth) I have created him and unto it I will   	return him. When they go away, they hear their footsteps. He is then said :   	0 servant, Who is your Lord? What is your religion? Who is your Prophet? He   	says : I don't know. He says : Has he not communicated to you? Then an angel   	with the most ugly face full of stench comes to him and says Take good news   	of God's displeasure and lasting chastisement. He then asks : Who are you?   	He says : I am your evil deeds. By God, then an angel, blind, dumb and deaf   	is fixed for him. In his hand, there is a stiff iron rod. If all men want to   	lift it up, they can't do it. If a mountain is beaten therewith, it will be   	crushed to pieces. He beats him therewith and he is then crushed to dust.   	Then his soul is returned to his body again and he is then beaten on his   	face. Then everything except jinn and men hear its sound.
  	Vol-IV THE BOOK OF CONSTRUCTIVE VIRTUES 415
  	Then a proclaimer proclaims : Spread out to him two planks of fire and open   	a door towards Hell. Then it is complied with.
  	The Prophet said: The punishment of an unbeliever is is that in his grave,   	ninety nine serpents will be biting him and each serpent will have seven   	heads. This will continue upto the Resurrection Day.
  	Your must not express surprise at hearing the number of snakes as their   	number will increase according to the misdeeds of the unbeliever-pride,   	show, hatred and other evil characters and conducts. These will turn into   	snakes. Those who are well aware of soul realise and find these destructive   	sins. Those who cannot see them should not deny this, but seek its proofs.   	There are three matters to prove it.
  	PROOFS OF PUNISHMENT OF GRAVE
  	(1)The cause of your not seeing the sting of a serpent is this that your   	outward two eyes of this world were not made for its sight. The thing which   	can see the affairs of the next world belongs to the spiritual word. Don't   	you see how the companions of the Prophet believed in the descent of Gebrail   	although they did not see him with a physical body. They believed him as the   	Prophet testified it. If you believe him, then why do you disbelieve   	punishment in the grave? As an angel is not like man and animal, so the   	serpents which will bite the sinners and unbelievers in the grave do not   	belong to the class of serpents of the world. These are serpents of the next   	world and this can be understood by the senses of the next world.
  	(2)Remember the condition of a sleeping person. He sees in dream the sting   	of a serpent and feels also its pangs. Even it occurs that he rises up   	suddenly with a loud shriek, removes the sweat of his face and shifts   	elsewhere. He suffers pangs as a man in wakeful state suffers pangs of   	snake-bite. You see his body in a peaceful state and do not see any serpent   	around him. Yet it is a fact that he sees the serpents and feels their sting   	but it is not true in your case.- Therefore there is no untruth in the   	saying of the Prophet.
  	(3)You know that a serpent itself cannot give you pangs, but the poison   	which it throws in you gives you pangs. The poison itself is not pang, but   	the reaction which is creates in you gives
  	416 DEATH  AND SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Vol-IV
  	you punishment. If the reaction is caused without poison, it is sufficient   	as a punishment. The explanation of the punishment cannot be made without   	the relationship of a material object according to long established practice   	as pleasure of cohabitation cannot be explained without the relationship of   	a woman. The enjoyment of cohabitation can be also gained without   	cohabitation with woman. Similarly punishment can be meted out with agencies   	or material objects of punishment. The pangs which appear at the time of   	death, are like the pangs of snake-bite without the material figure of   	snake. The change of nature gives pangs just as separation of the objects of   	love or its death gives pain in mind. So death means that what was the   	objects of love before death has turned into objects of punishment soon   	after death. He who cuts off all connections from the world and does not   	love but God and remains anxious to meet with Him, gets release from the   	prison house of this world and mixes after death with his Beloved. Thus he   	gets happiness which is never cut off and is ever-lasting. The greater the   	properties of the world one possesses, the greater will be his punishment in   	the next world. The thing left at death, will be a cause of punishment and   	repentance.
  	If you neglect your good deeds and remain engaged is arguments and   	dialogues, you will be like the man mentioned below. A certain king arrests   	a man and keeps him in confinement for the purpose of cutting his hands and   	ears and taking out his eyes. The arrested man thinks all the nights weather   	the king will do these things with sword or with knife or with razor, but he   	never thinks of warding off the basic punishment. This is his sheer   	ignorance. So a man must think how to ward off punishment after death but   	not in what way the punishment will be meted out or happiness awarded. To   	enquire about this is to spend time in vain.
  	CONDITION OF A DEAD  MAN  EXPRESSED IN DREAM
  	 Know, 0 readers, that the light   	of self introspection and the result of experience communicate to us the   	condition of the dead and their fortunes and misfortunes, but the condition   	of the general masses cannot be known by such methods as it is not known in   	what state a man died. His place of fear is heart which is so secret and   	subtle that a God fearing man even does not know
  	Vol-IV THE BOOK OF CONSTRUCTIVE VIRTUES 417
  	it, not to speak of others. When a man dies, he is removed from this   	material world to a world which is unknown and spiritual and it cannot be   	seen with this material eye. An eye is created within the mind of every man   	but it is covered by him with passions and earthly desires and nothing of   	the spiritual world can be seen with that eye of heart unless the screen   	over it is removed. As this screen is removed from the eyes of the heart of   	the prophets, they can see the things of the spiritual world, and also the   	conditions of the dead men. For this reason, the Prophet saw the pressure of   	earth in case of Sa'ad-bin-Muaz and his daughter Zainab. Similarly when the   	father of Jaber was martyred, he saw his condition and said that God made   	him seat in His front and there was no screen between them. This is true in   	case of Prophets and God's friends.
  	The Prophet said: True dream is one-forty sixt part of Prophethood. It is   	not possible unless the screen from the heart is removed. For this reason   	dreamof men other than that of the pious men, cannot be believed. He who has   	got greater falsehoods in him cannot be trusted regarding his dream. He sees   	only medley of dreams. The Prophet advised for this to sleep after   	performing Wuzu the object of which is to bring internal purity. He whos   	soul is pure can see what will occur in future, just as the Prophet said in   	dream that he returned to Mecca. God says : God has shown his Prophet's   	dream as true. Dream and what is seen in dream about future events are   	wonders of God and miracles of men. This is one of the positive proofs of   	the existence of the spiritual world, but men do not ponder over it as they   	do not look to the wonderful events of soul. The real condition of dream is   	included within the subtlities of the spiritual world. A short illustration   	of this maybe given below.
  	SOUL IS A TRANSPARENT THING LIKE MIRROR
  	Every thing is reflected in the mirror. What will occur from the   	beginning of creation up to the end has been recorded by God in Lauhe Mahfuz   	( or Guarded Tablet) or Book of Deeds. What has happened or what will happen   	in the world has been recorded therein. That cannot be seen with the open   	material eye. That Guarded tablctis not a plank or a book, but it is just   	like the impresstthdfTe fitters of the Quran in mind and brain. When one   	reads it, he looks to it. If his brain or mind is searched for after
  	I
  	418 DEATH AND SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Vol-IV
  	being split up, you will not find any impression of letters in it. As the   	impression of letters is not found therein, you will understand that   	similarly the affairs of the world are imprinted in the Guarded Tablet. As   	the outward figure is seen in the mirror if placed directly before it, sol;   	the pictures in the Guarded Tablet are seen if placed directly before the   	mirror of human soul. But if there are screens of refuges or uncleanliness   	over the mirror, no figure will be reflected in the mirror. Similarly if   	there are screen of passions, sins and love of world over the soul, the   	things of the Guarded Tablet cannot be reflected therein.
  	
  	SOUL IS A MIRROR: In the soul effect of knowledge is reflected.   	Similarly the Guarded Tablet(where every event from start to end of universe   	is written) is a mirror. Therein is reflected all the effects of knowledge.   	Passions and temptations are screens between the two mirrors. For this   	reason, the things of the Guarded Tablet are nor reflected in soul. That is   	included within the spiritual world. If owing to the effect of the blowing   	of wind, the screen is partly and' temporarily removed, then something of   	the spiritual world is reflected for a short time like the sparkling of   	electricity in the mirror of soul. So long as he remains awake, the affairs   	of this material world and the five senses keep him engaged. That is the   	screen for the spiritual world. The meaning of sleep is that then the senses   	remain passive and they do not exercise any influence over soul at the time.   	When the soul is free from these senses and their bases are cleared off, the   	screen over the Guarded Tablet is lifted up and something therefrom is   	reflected in his soul just as a figure of one mirror falling upon another   	mirror without figure is reflected.
  	
  	Sleep keeps the mind free from the working of the senses but does not keep i   	t free from the ideas and thoughts of the world. An idea follows what falls   	upon heart. Illustration can be given of it. This idea is established in   	brain and takes permanent root. When he gets up from sleeps, he remembers   	the idea. Take up an example. Once a man said to Ibn-Sirin : I dreamt that I   	have got a seal in my hand whereaith I am putting seals on the faces of men   	and on female organs. He then said : You are a proslaimer of Azan, you will   	proclaim Azan at the time of Fair in the month of Ramazan, He said : You   	have spoken the truth. Now look to the meaning of 'seal' which is to   	prohibit. That is reflected in the man's soul from what is within the   	Guarded Tablet. To prohibit the people from food and drink is that thing.   	The meaning of
  	Vol-IV THE BOOK OF CONSTRUCTIVE VIRTUES 419
  	closing with seal is to prohibit. Brain contains no figure but a picture of   	the figure born out of ideas. This is the better explanation of the sea of   	dream which is limitless.
  	Sleep is the brother of death and death is one of the open mysteries of   	creation. There is similarity between sleep and death as in both of them   	there is reflection of the spiritual world. Even   	a sleeping man can get sign of what will happen in future. By death the   	screen is fully removed and man can see rapidly his reward and punishment at   	the time of death.  The Quran says : You are   	unmindful of this. I have removed the screen from you, as a result your   	sight to-day is very sharp (50:22). 'And there appeared to them from God   	what they could not conjecture before . Now think of the saying of   	the Prophet : Love what you like but you shall have to leave it. Live as   	long as you wish, but you shall have to die. Do what you like, but you shall   	have to get its return.' So live in the world like a sojourner and don't   	place one brick upon another and one plank over another for your habitation.   	Don't amass wealth, don't take anyone besides God as your bosom friend. The   	Prophet said : Had I had taken anyone as my bosom friend, I would have taken   	Abu Bakr as such, but your companion is the bosom friend of the Merciful.   	This shows that the real friendship with the Merciful was imbedded in his   	soul and the love of God filled up his entire heart. The Prophet therefore   	said : If you love God, follow me, God will then love you (Quran).
  	
  	SECTION 2
  	There are in this section the following matters-(1) Blowing of   	Trumpet. (2) Discriptions of the Resurrection. (3) Perspiration, (4)   	Duration of Resurrection, (5) Fearful events of the day, (6) Questions to   	the sinners (7) Balance, (8) The Bridge, (9) Intercession, (10) Fountain,   	(11) Paradise , (12) Hell, (13) Divine vision and (14) God's mercy.
  	(1) Blowing of Trumpet. God says: There will be blowing of Trumpet. As a   	result, all in Heaven and earth will fall in swoon except those who are   	saved by God. There after there will be another blowing of Trumpet. Then   	they will standup, looking on-39:68. God says : When there will be blowing   	of Trumpet, it will be a very grievous day, it will not be easy for the   	unbelievers. God says in verse 23:101-When the Trumpet will be blown,
  	420 DEATH  AND SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Vol-IV
  	there will be no more relationship between them that day, nor will one ask   	another. God says in verse 69:13-When one blast is sounded on the Trumpet   	and the earth is moved and its mountains etc. The Prophet said : 'How can I   	enjoy happiness when the angel of Trumpet is awaiting and hearing   	attentively turning his forehead to one side when there will be order for   	the blowing of Trumpet and when he will blow Trumpet ?'The angel Israfil is   	keeping his mouth attached to the Trumpet just like a trumpet in war. The   	circumference of the mouth of this Trumpet is like that of the heavens and   	earth. He is awaitiong order fixing his gaze towards the Throne. Immediately   	after receiving order, he will blow the Trumpet for the first time. As a   	result of this, all in the heaven and earth will expire except Gebrail,   	Michael, Israfil and Izraile (Angles). Then God will order to take the life   	of Gebrail and then that of Michael and than that of Israfil. Then the   	angel of death will take out his life himself. After the first blowing,   	all the created beings will remain in Barzakah for 40 years. Then God will   	restore life to Israfil and order him to blow the Trumpet again. The Quran   	says : Then there will be second blowing when they will stand up looking   	on-39:68.
  	
  	(2) Resurrection. The Prophet said : On the Resurrection Day, men   	will be gathered together in such a field which is white, clean and round   	like a loaf. There will remain no sign therein. The narrator explained that   	the whiteness is not like that of snow. Clean means there will be no   	structure or building wherein recourse is taken. There will no distance out   	of sight. Think not that the ground will be like this ground. God says :   	When this world will be changed into another world and the heavens too, the   	whole world will then be full of darkness. The sky will fall down into   	pieces and flow like molten silver. Everybody will stand up naked. The   	Prophet said : Every man will be raised up naked and circumcised. Their   	perspiration will rise up upto their ears. Hazrat Sauda asked a the Prophet   	: 0 Prophet of God, if we stand up naked, will not anybody look at others ?   	He said 'everybody will be busy with himself. That will be a fearful day.   	The hidden things will be disclosed and nobody will be safe. Some will crawl   	upon their bellies and some upon their faces. The Prophet said : On the   	Resurrection Day, men will be divided into three classes, some will be   	coming on riding, some on foot and some on faces. One man asked : 0 Prophet   	of God, how will they come walking on their faces ? He said : He who can   	make men
  	Vol-IV THE BOOK OF CONSTRUCTIVE VIRTUES 421
  	walk on foot, can also make them walk on their faces. Man denies what he is   	not accustomed to. If man did not see serpents crawling on their bellies, he   	would not have believed it. He who walks without foot would have disbelieved   	one who walks on foot.
  	(3) Perspiration. All the creations before and after will be gathered   	together in one place-the creations of seven heavens and seven earths,   	angels, jinn, men, devils, birds and beasts. The sun will shed lustre on   	them and the lustre will be increased manifold. It will shine very close to   	them. There will be no shade on the earth except the shade of the Merciful   	destined for the pious. Everybody will therefore give out perspiration. It   	will rise up to them according to their actions in the world and upto waists   	of some, upto ears of some, and some will be drowned therein. The Prophet   	said : Remember the day when the whole mankind will stand up before the   	Lord, even some of them will be drowned upto their ears. The Prophet also   	said : On the Resurrection Day there will be perspiration of men, so much so   	that it will rise upto the height of seventy cubits and upto their ears. The   	Prophet also said : They will stand up looking towards the sky for 40 years   	and owing to excessive heat perspiration will almost drown them. The Prophet   	said : On the Resurrection Day, the sun will come very near the earth and   	men will perspire. It will rise upto the waists of some, to the feet of   	some, to the knees of some, to the face of some and it will drown some.&quot;   	This will occur before accounts of actions are taken. Know, 0 men, that   	those who did not perspire in the world in the way of God, pilgrimage, fast,   	prayer, Jehad, advice to do good and prohibition from evils, will perspire   	on the Resurrection Day.
  	(4). Duration of Resurrection. In the vast field of Resurrection, all the   	creations will be looking upwards without any talk and with fearful heart   	for a period of 300 years. They will have no food or drink and no breeze.   	The Prophet read this verse : What will be your condition on the Day when   	God will gather you together ? That day will continue for 50 thousand years   	and He will not look to you. The Prophet said when asked about the   	Resurrection Day : By One in whose hand there is my life, that day will be   	made easy for a believer more easy than the obligatory prayers.
  	422 DEATH AND SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Vol-IV
  	Try to be one of the believers. You have got freedom of actions till your   	last breath. Be prepared for the great Day and take provisions for the Day.
  	(5) Terrible sufferings of the Day: 0 wreatced man, be prepared for the   	terrible day of which the events are most fearful, duration long, judge very   	strict and time is near. You will see the sky rent asunder, the stars   	seattered all round out of His fear, the sun overturned, the mountains   	displaced, the creatures gathered, the oceans swollen, fires of Hell   	enkindled, Paradise near, mountains roaming the earth changed with terrible   	earth-quakes, the mountains will become like cleaning of cotton, every   	suckling woman will forget her child, every pregnaat woman will suffer   	abortion and the punishment of God will be most grievous.
  	The earth will become a vast plain with no unevenness or crookedness. Every   	man on that Day will be presented with his good or bad deeds. Tongue will   	then be closed and every limb will speak. On hearing the terrible nature of   	the day, the Prophet become grey haired. Hazrat Abu Bakr one day asked the   	Prophet
  	0 Prophet of God, I see you greyhaired. He said : The chapters Hud, Waqeah,   	Murselat and such other chapters have made me grey- haired.
  	(6) Rendering accounts of worldly affairs: On that day, everyone. young or   	old will be asked of his deeds in the world. The angels with big bodies and   	terrible figures will come down and they will catch hold of the sinners and   	bring them to God. The Prophet said : There is such an angel of God, the   	distance of whose two eyes is equal to the distance of one hundred years'   	journey. God says : I will ask them of what they did including every   	Prophet. The Prophet said : There is no such man with whom there will an   	interpreter or screen at the time when God will ask him. The Prophet said :   	Every man among you will stand before God and there will be no screen   	between him and God. He will say to him : Did I not give you gifts ? Did I   	not give you wealth and properties ? He will reply : Yes. He will see Hell   	on his two sides. So save yourself from Hell giving in charity of a portion   	of even a date. Muzahed says : No man will place his feet near God till he   	is asked four things, how he spent his life, how he translated his learning   	into action, how he wasted his body, in what way he spent his wealth and   	wherefrom he earned it.
  	Vol-IV THE BOOK OF CONSTRUCTIVE VIRTUES 423
  	(7) Weights and Measures (Balance): After accounts are taken, people will be   	divided into three classes-One class of people will have no virtue. A   	prolonged neck will come out of Hell and overtake them just as a bird takes   	seeds of corn and throw them into Hell. The second class of men will have no   	sin. They will enter Paradise. Those who pray at night will be included   	among this class. Those who have not been diverted from the remembrance of   	God by the worldly affairs will be among this class. Those who have not been   	diverted from the remembrance of God by the worldly affairs will be among   	them. The third class of men will be the majority and will have good and bad   	deeds mixed together. Then the Balance will be set for them to weight which   	of the actions good or bad is greater. A great commotion will be created at   	that time.
  	
  	Once Prophet's head was lying in the lap of Hazrat Ayesha and she was   	weeping remembering the Hereafter and her tears fell on the cheek of the   	Prophet. He rose up and asked : 0 Ayesha, why do you weep ? She said : I   	remember the Hereafter, Will you remember your wives on the Resurrection Day   	? The Prophet said : By One in whose hand there lies my life nobody will   	remember anybody in three places : (1) When the Balance will be set up to   	weight the deeds, (2) when the books of deed will be given till he sees   	whether they are placed in his right hand or left hand, (3) and near the   	Bridge.
  	
  	The Prophet said: God will say to Adam : Rise up and see the number of the   	dwellers of Hell He will ask : What is the number of the dwellers in Hell ?   	God will say : 999 persons out of every thousand. When the companions heard   	it, the clours of their face became completely changed. The Prophet then   	said : Go on doing deeds and take good news. By One in whose hand there is   	my life, you have got two creations with you-children of Adam and the   	children of the devil. One of them destroys the other. The companions asked   	: What is that ? He said : Gog and Mogog At this, the comapnions were   	pleased. The Prophet said : Do actions and take good news. You will have   	such distinction on the Resurrection Day as there are black signs on the   	sides of camels or signs in the eyes. of horses.
  	424 DEATH AND SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Vol-IV
  	Vol-IV THE BOOK OF CONSTRUCTIVE VIRTUES 425
  	RETRIBUTION  AND RECOMPENSE 
  	
  	He whose scale will be heavy will live in happiness and he whose scale will   	be light will go to Hell. Nobody will be safe there except one who takes   	account of himself in this world. He weighs his actions in the scale of   	Shariat in this world as Hazrat Omar said Take account of your actions   	before your actions are taken account of, weigh your actions before your   	actions are weighed upon. The meaning of taking account is to repent with   	sincere heart before death for all the sins committed to look to the shgi   	tcomings in the obligatory duties, to return the properties to the true   	owners taken unjustly or by oppression, to make compensation for the wrongs   	done to others by tongue and hands, to redress for wrong notions against   	anybody. If he dies without doing these duties, his enemies will surround   	him. Some one will say : You have oppressed me. Some one will say : You have   	rebuked me. Some one will say : You have put me to jest and back-bited me.   	Some one will say : You have engaged me as a labourer but you have not paid   	my wages. Someone will say : You have sold me a thing but you have played   	fraud with me, you have concealed from me the defects in the sold thing.   	Someone will say : You were above want, while I was in want and you have not   	given me food. Someone will say : You have flattered the oppressor or did   	not remove his oppession from me although you had such power. God says :   	Don't think that God is unmindful of what the oppressors do. He puts them   	off for a day when their eyes will be sharp. They will flee with raised   	heads. They will look to him. Their hearts will be vacant-14:42. The Prophet   	once said : Do you know who are really the poor ? We said : 0 Prophet of   	God, he among us is poor who has got no money or property. He said : He is   	poor among my followers who will bring with him his prayer, fast and Zakat   	but on account of his childing others, backbiting others, misappropriating   	the properties of others and cheating others, his virtues will be given to   	them. If his virtues are found short but still their claims remain fully   	unsatisfied, their vices will fall upon him and he will be thrown into Hell.
  	
  	(8) The subtle Bridge: (one NDE  in Dr Moody's books 'life or light beyond ?'confirmed it. I have read   	that book)

  	&nbsp;

  	This is a long bridge over Hell which is   	sharper than award and more subtle than hair. He who treads on straight and   	right path in this world will cross it easily on the Resurrection Day and   	will get salvation. He who is misguided and saddled with sins will slip   	therefrom at the first step and will fall down into Jahannam below. Below   	the Bridge, there is the fire
  	of Hell. The sinners will fall down below with their heads downwards and   	legs upwards. The Prophet will say then : 0, my Lord, make us safe, make us   	safe. The wailings and cries of the dwellers of Hell will reach your ears.   	What will be your condition then?
  	The Prophet said: The bridge will be placed over the back of Hell. I will be   	the first to cross it along with my followers. None will speak that day   	except the apostles. They will cry, 0 Lord, make us afe.
  	The Prophet said : People will cross the Bridge over Hell. There will be   	thorns and iron pegs thereon which will catch the sinners from every side.   	Some will cross it like lightning, some like the blowing of wind, some like   	running of horse, some will walk, some will walk on their breasts. The   	inmates of Hell will not live or die and they will be burnt by fire. The   	Prophet said : God will gather together all the creasures from first to last   	on a fixed day. They will keep standing in that condition for 40 years   	looking towards the sky and waiting for Judgment. Hazrat Annas reported : I   	heard the Prophet say : The Bridge will be sharp like sword and thin like   	hair. The angels will give salvation to the believing males and females.   	Gebrail will catch my waist and I will say : 0 Lord, give us a salvation,   	give us salvation. The number of those who will slip down will be numerous.
  	(9) Intercession: When a party are adjudged to dwell in Hell, God may accept   	intercession on their behalf by the Prophets and the truthful ones. Those   	who are near God can intereede for their relatives and dear ones. The   	Prophet once cried out saying : My followers my followers. God said : 0   	Gebrail, go and ask Muhammad why he is weeping. Gebrail came and asked him   	accordingly. He said : God knows it best. God said: 0 Gebrail go to Muhammad   	and tell him : I will soon satisfy you regarding your followers and will not   	forget you. The Prophet said : I have been given five things which were not   	given to the Prophets before me. The power of intercession is one of them.   	Each Prophet waa sent to a particular nation and I have been sent for the   	whole mankind. The Prophet said : On the Resurrection Day, I will be the   	leader of the Prophets, their mouth-piece and having right of intercession.   	There is no pride in it.
  	426 DEATH AND SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Vol-IV
  	Vol-IV THE BOOK OF CONSTRUCTIVE VIRTUES 427
  	The Prophet said: God will gather together all the creatures before and   	after in one field. The sorrows of some will go to the extreme and some of   	them will say to the others : Let us go to Adam. They will come to Adam and   	tell him to intercede for them to relieve them of their sorrows and   	difficulties. Adam will say to them : Today my Lord grew into such a rage as   	had never happened before. He prohibited me not to go to the tree but I   	disobeyed it. I am busy with myself.
  	They will then go to Noah. Noah will say to them : I am busy with myself as   	I invoked wrath of God against my people. Go to Abraham, the friend of God.   	They will then come to Abraham but he will say that he spoke three lies for   	which he is anxious for himself. He will say : Go to Moses. They will then   	come to Moses, but he will say : I killed a man without order from God. I am   	busy with myself. Go to Jesus. They will then come to Jesus who will say : I   	am busy with myself. Go to Muhammad. They will then come to Muhammad. He   	will go to the Throne and will fall in prostration and say: 0 my followers,   	0 my followers.
  	(10) Fountain: The Fountain is a honoured gift. It will be given to our   	Prophet. There is one special attribute of the Fountain that if a man drinks   	a sip therefrom, he will never be thirsty. Anas reported that the Prophet   	one day rose from sleep and began to laugh. The companions asked him : Why   	do you langh, 0 Prophet of God ? He said : I laugh for only one verse which   	has just been revealed to me. Then he recited the verse 108 of the Quran : I   	have given you Kausar. So pray for your Lord, and do offer sacrifice. He   	asked : Do you know what is Kausar ? The companions said : God and his   	Prophet know best. He said That is a river. God promised me to award it to   	me. There is abundant good in it. Therein there is a fountain. My followers   	will come to it for water on the Resurrection Day. Its pots are numerous   	like the stars in heaven. The Prophet said : When I was travelling in   	Paradise , I came to a river of which the two sides are woven with jewels. I asked   	: 0 Gebrail, what is it ? He said : It is Kausar. Your Lord gifted it to   	you. The angel struck it with his hand and it was seen that its earth was   	made of musk. The Prophet said: The distance of the two banks of my fountain   	is like that of  Medina and Sana'a or   	Medina and Omman.
  	The Prophet said with regard to Kausar that it is a river in Paradise  whose sides are made of gold. It's waters are whiter
  	than milk, sweeter than honey, more fragrant than musk. That is flowing upon   	the bases of emeralds and jewels.
  	The Prophet said: The first batch who will come for its water is the poor   	refugees. The hairs of their heads will be dishevelled, their clothes   	uncleans, no woman married them and no door of honour was opened for them.
  	The Prophet was asked about the number of its pitchers. He said : By One in   	whose hand there is my life, they are numerous as the stars in the sky in a   	dark night. He who drinks therefrom will never be thirsty. The Prophet said   	: Every Prophet will have a fountain. They will take pride about the number   	of people who will come to drink therefrom. I expect that my followers will   	be greatest among them.
  	(11)  Paradise: The Prophet said: Some   	one will declare : 0 dwellers of Paradise, you will live in Paradise  healthy without any ailment. You will live therein forever and you will   	never die. You will enjoy therein permanent youth and you will never become   	old. You will forever live there in happiness and you will never suffer   	troubles. This is the declaration of God. The Prophet said : He who spent   	two kinds of property in the way of God will be welcomed to    	Paradise  from each of its doors.  Paradise  has got eight doors. He   	who prayed will be called from the door of prayer. He who paid Zakat will be   	called from the door of Zakat. He who fought will be called from the door of   	Jihad. Hazrat Abu Bakr said: It appears that each one will be called from   	each door. Is there any person who will be welcomed from all the doors? He   	said: someone will get that welcome. I hope I will be one of them.
  	The Prophet said: When I will come to the door of Paradise  and order it to be opened, the guard will say : Who are you ? I will say   	: I am Muhammad. He will say : I have been ordered not to open it before you   	entered.
  	The Prophet said: The dwellers of  Paradise  will see the inhabitants   	above their heads just as you see the stars in the horizon from east to   	west. This is because of their high status. The companions asked : 0   	Messenger of God, that is the status of the Prophets and none will get that   	position except the Prophets. The Prophet said : That is true. By One in   	whose hand there is my life, there are men who believed in God and believed   	the Prophet as true. He said : The owners of the high status will be seen   	from their
  	428 DEATH AND SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Vol-IV
  	places just as you see the bright star in the horizon. Among them there will   	be Abu Bakr and Omar and they will be given blessings.
  	The Prophet said once to Jaber : Shall I not give you the news of the   	windows of Paradise ? We said : 0 Messenger. of God give us that   	information. He said : Those are made of emeralds and jewels. Their inner   	parts will be seen from their outer parts. Therein there will be such   	enjoyments, amusements and joys as no eye has seen, no ear has heard and no   	heart has conceived. I said : 0 Messenger of God, who will be the owners of   	those windows ? He said: Those who spread peace, give food, keep fasts, pray   	at night when the people remain asleep. We asked : 0 Messenger of God, who   	will be able to do that ? He said : My people will be able to do that. I am   	saying it to you. He who meets his brother, salutes him and replies to his   	salute,' spreads peace; and he who gives food to his wife and members of his   	family to their satisfaction gives food. He who keeps fast of Ramazan and   	three days every month, keeps fast as it were for the whole year. He who   	prays Isha and Fajr in congregation prays as it were the whole night when   	the people remain asleep. God says : The fine buildings in Eden Paradise.'   	The Prophet said regarding its meanings : These places are builts of   	emeralds and jewels and in each building there will be 70 rooms of red   	colour and in each room 70 sub-rooms of green colour and in each sub-room   	there will be one throne and over each throne 70 beds of varied colours and   	on each bed a girl having sweet black eyes. There will be 70 dining cloth in   	each room and 70 kinds of food in each dining cloth. There will be seven   	girls in each room. Each believe will be given such strength in the morning   	as he can cohabit with them.
  	WALLS OF  PARADISE 
  	The Prophet said : The walls of praradise are built of bricks of gold and   	silver, its dust of saffron and earth of camphor. The rivers of paradise   	flows under the mountains of camphor. If there remains a single ornament of   	the dwellers of paradise, that will be equal to all the ornaments of the   	world. The Prophet said. There are trees in paradise. Under their shade, a   	rider can pass one hundred years' journey without any obstruction. To this   	effect, the Quran says-And extended shade.
  	Vol-IV THE COOK OF CONSTRUCTIVE VIRTUES 429
  	DRESSES OF DWELLERS OF  PARADISE 
  	God says : They will be given bangles of gold and jewels and dresses of   	silk. There are innumerable verses regarding this. The Prophet said : He who   	will enter paradise will live in happiness, he will have no want, his   	dresses will not grow old and his youth will not end. He will get such   	things in-paradise as no eye has seen no ear has heard and no heart has   	conceived. He said : Twice fruits will come out of trees every year. He said   	: The faces of first group in paradise will be bright like full moon. They   	will not spit therein, nor throw cough, no- urinate. Their pots and combs   	will be made of gold and silver. Each one of them will have two wives. On   	account of their beauty, their hind bones will be seen from the front sides.   	They will have no differences, no malice and no hatred. They will proclaim   	the glory of God morning and evening. In another narration each wife will   	have seventy dresses. God says : They will be dressed with bangles of gold.   	The Prophet said : On their heads there will be caps of gold. A small piece   	of jewel therein will brighten what is between the east and the west. The   	Prophet said : There will be camps made of emeralds. Their height will be   	sixty miles. In each corner, there will be girls for the believers who will   	not be seen by the other girls.
  	 FOOD OF THE INMATES OF PARADISE
  	 The Quran speaks of the food of   	the inmates of Paradise fruits, birds, Manna, Salwa, honey, milk and other   	varieties. God says : Whenever they will be given any food, they will say :   	similar foods were given to us before. God says about their drink in the   	following narration. Once a Jewish learned man came to the Prophet and asked   	him : Who will first cross the Bridge ? He said : The poor refugees : The   	Jew asked again : When they will enter paradise, what food will be served to   	them first ? He said : Roasts of the livers of fish. He asked again : What   	will be their morning lunch ? He said : Cows of paradise will be slaughtered   	for them. He said : What drink will be given to them ? He said They will be   	given drink of Salsabil. The Jew said : You have spoken the truth. Once a   	Jew asked the Prophet : Do you think that the inmates of paradise will eat   	and drink ? The Prophet said Yes, by One in whose hand there is my life,   	each one of them will be given food, drink and strength of one hundred man   	to have sexual intercourse. The Jew asked : Will he have any necessity of   	passing urine and stools ? The Prophet said : In place of urine and
  	430 DEATH AND SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Vol-IV
  	stool, perspiration will come out of them like camphor and as a result their   	stomach will be cleared therefor. The Prophet said to Ibn-Masud : If. you   	wish to eat a bird in paradise, it will fall before you at once cooked and   	fried up.
  	HURS  AND GELMAN (BOYS) 
  	The Prophet said: If a woman of  Paradise  would have peeped up   	into this world everything therein would have been illuminated and filled up   	with fragrance. Every hair of her head is better than than the earth and its   	treasures. God says : They are like Eakut and Marjan. If their faces are   	seen within screen, they will be more clear than mirrors and the smallest   	jewel therein will illuminate what is in the heaven and earth. The Prophet   	said : In the night in which I was taken to heaven, I entered a place in   	Paradise  named Baidakh whose camps are of emeralds and green pearls and red Eakut.   	They asked : 0 Prophet of God, Salam to you. I asked : 0 Gebrail, whose   	sound is there ? He said : of the beautiful women in camps. They seek your   	permission to salute you. So give them permission. They will be saying : We   	are pleased therewith. We will never be dissatisfied. We will remain here   	forever, we will never travel. Then he recited the verse : The beautiful   	damsels detained in camps. In another verse : Pure women. Muzaher explained   	this by saying that they will be free menstruation, urine, stool, cough and   	children.
  	A man asked the Prophet : 0 Prophet of God, will the inmates of    	Paradise  have sexual intercourse ? He said: Anybody among them will be given   	sexual strength of seven, persons among you. The Prophet said : An inmate of  	 Paradise  will have five hundred hurs, four thousand unmarried women and eight   	thousand widowed women. Each of them will keep embracing him for the   	duration of his whole worldly life time. He also said: There will be markets   	in  Paradise  in which there will be no buy and sale, but there will be men and women.   	If any man will wish to have sexual intercourse with a woman, he will do at   	once. The Hurs will sing in  Paradise   	on divine purity and praise-we are most beautiful Hurs and we are for the   	honoured husbands.
  	OTHER DESCRIPTIONS OF  PARADISE 
  	The Prophet said to a man: 0 servant of God, if you enter Paradise , you will get what you will desire, what your eyes will
  	Vol-IV THE BOOK OF CONSTRUCTIVE VIRTUES 431
  	be pleased with. The Prophet said : If an inmate of    	Paradise  will wish to have a son born to him, he will get it. Its stay in womb,   	its weaning away from milk and its youth will come to pass at the same time.   	He also said : The inmantes of    	Paradise will be beardless and hairless. Their colour will be white and   	their eyes painted with collyrium. They will be youths of 33 years of age.   	They will be sixty cubits long and seven cubits broad. He also said : The   	lowest rank of an inmate of Paradise will have eighty thousand servants and   	seventy two wives. In short there will be such bliss in Paradise  which no eye has seen, no ear has heard and no heart has conceived.
  	(12) Hell: God says: 'There is nobody among you who will not come to.. it   	(Hell). That is an affair decreed by God. Thereafter I will give salvation   	to those who are Godfearing and leave those who are sinners.' So it is   	certain that you will also go there. What hope have you got for salvation ?   	The Prophet said : There are seventy thousand valleys in Hell and in each   	valley 70,000 serpents and 70,900 scropoins. The unbelievers and hypocrites   	will meet them. He said : Seek refuge from 'Jubbul Hujn&quot;. He was asked : 0   	Prophet of God, what is Jubbul Hujn ? He said : A valley in Hell. The Hell   	seeks refuge from it seventy times. God prepared it for those who do divine   	service for show of man. There are seven layers of Hell. The first and   	highest layer is called Jahannam, the second layer is called Sakher, lower   	than it is jai, lower than it is Hotamah, lower than it is Saierr lower than   	it is Jahim and lowest layer is Habiyah.
  	While we were with Prophet, we heard suddenly a great sound. The Prophet   	said : Do you know what this sound is ? We said : God and His Prophet know   	it best. He said : It is the sound of a stone. it was falling down from the   	topmost portion of Hell for the last 70 years and now it reached the bottom.   	The Prophet said : The least punishment that will be meted out to an inmate   	of Hell will be two shoes of fire, on account of their heat his brain will   	bubble. Now think of the heavy punishments. The Prophet said that the   	fire of Hell was washed seventy times by the water of mercy and sent to   	this world and it has been made then suitable for its inmantes.
  	The Prophet said explaining the fire of Hell. God ordered the fire of Hell   	to burn for one thousand years. It then became yellow.
  	432 DEATH  AND SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Vol-IV
  	Vol-IV THE BOOK OF CONSTRUCTIVE VIRTUES 433
  	Thereafter it burnt for another one thousand years and it then became white.   	It then burnt for another one thousand years. It then became black. It is   	now black and full of darkness. The Prophet said : If a basketful pus of   	Hell would have been thrown into this world, everything in the world would   	have been stenchy. This will be the drinks of the inmates of Hell. Whenever   	they will ask for drink, they will be given this stenchy pus. Death will   	come to them from every side but they will not die. If they want drink, they   	will be given drink like heated molten lead. It will burn their mouths.
  	
  	Then look to their food. It will be fruits from Zaqqum tree. God says : It   	is a tree which will grow from the bottom of Hell and it will have branches   	like the hands of the devil. They will eat therefrom and it will fill their   	bellies. then heated water will be thrown upon their bodies and then they   	will be taken to Jahim. God says : We have got Chains and Jahim and   	throat-choking food and severe punishment. The Prophet said : If a drop of   	Zaqqum would fall into the sea of this would the inmates of the world would   	have found it very difficult to live in it. The Prophet said : The dwellers   	of Hell will have hunger. If they want food, they will be given thorns of   	poison. It will not give strength nor satisfy hunger. Thereafter they will   	ask for food and they will be given food that will choke their throat. They   	will then ask for drink and they will be given heated hot water with heated   	iron rods. When it will be brought close to their mouth, their mouth will be   	burnt. When it will enter their stomach, the entrails will be cut off. They   	will say : Call the guard of Hell. When he will come, they will say to him :   	Tell your Lord to alleviate our punishment for a single day. He will say :   	Did not any Prophet come to you with proofs ? They-will say : Yes, he came.   	Then they will say Pray to God. He will say : The prayers of the unblievers   	will be turned into nought.
  	
  	Now think of the serpents and scorpions of Hell. They will be constant   	companions of the inmates of Hell. Not a moment will pass on them without   	their sting. The Prophet said : The wealth given to a man who did not pay   	its Zakat will be turned into serpent on the Resurrection Day. It will cling   	to his shoulders in the Resurrection Day. It will say : I am your wealth, I   	am your hidden treasure. They he recited this verse : If they are miser with   	regard to the wealth which God has given to them don't think
  	that it will do them good, rather it will do them evil. On the Resurrection   	Day, their amassed wealth will cling to their necks. The Prophet said :   	There are serpents in Hell like the necks of the camels of Bukht. If one of   	them stings once, the effects of its poison will continue for 40 years. They   	are so poisonous that if one of them stings once, its effect of poison will   	continue for 40 years. These serpents and scropoins will sting those people   	who were misers, meted out bad treatment with the peoples and gave them   	trouble.
  	The Prophet said : The front teeth of the inmates of Hell will be.so big as   	the mount  Uhud  and the thickness of his   	skin will be the distance of three days journey. The Prophet said that his   	upper lip would fall upon his breast and will cover his face. The Prophet   	said : On that day, Hell will be brought. It will have seventy thousand   	bridle and with each bridle there will be seventy thousand angels. He also   	said. Weeping will be sent to the inmates of Hell. They will continue to   	weep till blood comes out. Their faces will become like cultivated ditches.   	If any boat is floated therein, it will easily float. The Prophet said :   	Death will be brought on the Resurrection Day as if it is a sheep of white   	colour and it will be slaughtered between Hell and Paradise . It will be said : 0 inmates of paradise, you will live here permanently   	without death. 0 inmatres of Hell, you will live here permanently without   	death.
  	These are in brief the descriptions of Hell and it has got no end. Another   	punishment is that they will be deprived of the heavenly bliss and divine   	sight and pleasure.
  	(13) Vision of God: God says : For those who do good there are   	rewards and additional rewards. This additional reward is nothing but the   	vision of God which is the most tasteful of all rewards. The happiness of   	paradise is insignificant in comparison with that gained by the sight of the   	Lord. The Prophet said once looking to the full moon : As you see this moon,   	so you will see your Lord. You will not be tired of His sight. He said :   	Pray before sun-set and sun- rise. Then he read the verse : Glorify your   	Lord before the setting and rising of the sun. The Prophet said : When the   	dwellers of paradise will enter paradise, some one will proclaim : 0   	dwellers of paradise, God wishes to fulfil what He promised you. The   	companions asked
  	434
  	What is that promise ? Has He not filled up our Balance ? Has He not   	brightened our faces and admitted us in paradise ? Has He not saved us from   	the fire of Hell? At that time, the screen will be lifted and they will be   	gazing at the glorious God. Nothing will be dearer to them at that time than   	His sight. ?This is the greater reward. At that time they will forget every   	enjoyment and happiness. There is no limit to this happiness and no example.
  	(14) God's mercy
  	The end of the book &quot;The Revival of religious learning&quot;
  	We have, by the grace of God, finished the book &quot;The Revival of religious   	learning&quot; and we hope for God's grace and blessings. God says : God does not   	forgive setting up partnership with Him. But He forgives one besides this   	whom He wishes. God says : 0 those who have made oppression on their souls,   	don't be deprived of God's mercy. God can forgive all sins. He is forgiving,   	kind.
  	We pray to God for forgiveness for the mistakes we committed in this book or   	exceeded, for the thoughts mixed advertently in what we wished and intended.   	We pray to God for forgiveness for those who read this book write it or hear   	it. The Prophet said : God has got one hundred mercies, out of which He   	distributed one among men jinn, beasts, birds and lower beings with the   	remaining 99 mercies left to Him. He will show them on the Resurrection Day   	on His servants.
  	The Prophet said: On the Resurrection day, God will take out a writing from   	undrneth.the Throne wherein it was written : My mercy has defeated My anger.   	I am the Most Merciful. The Prophet said: God will laugh for us on the   	Resurrection Day and say: Give good news to the Muslims. There is nobody   	among them in whose exchange I have not placed a Jew or a Christian in Hell.   	Teh Prophet said: God will give the power of intercession to ten crores and   	ten thousand men out of the children of Adam. He also said: God will say to   	the believers on the Resurrection Day: Did you want My vision? They will   	say: 0 our lord, we wanted. He will ask: Why? They say: We hoped for Thy   	forgiveness and mercy. Then He will say: l have made My forgiveness sure for   	you.
  	The Prophet said: The Glorious Lord will say on the Resurrection Day: Take   	out the man from Hell who remembered
  	Vol-IV THE BOOK OF CONSTRUCTIVE VIRTUES 435
  	Me for a single day or feared Me in a critical place. The Prophet said: When   	the inmates of Hell will assemble in Hell with those of people of the Book,   	the unbelievers will say to the Muslims: Were you not Muslims? They will   	say: Yes. They will say: What benefit did you derive by your acceptance of   	Islam? You are with us now in Hell. They will say: We committed sins for   	which we receive this punishment. On hearing this, God will pass order to   	take them out of Hell. They will, then come out of Hell. When the   	unbelievers will see it, they will say: Woe to us! would that we were   	Muslims, we could have come out of Hell like them. Then the Prophet read   	this verse: Those who are unbelievers will wish honestly that how good it   	would have been if they were Muslims.
  	The Prophet said: God will show mercy on the believers much more than a   	mother showing affection to her child. The Prophet said: A proclaimer will   	proclaim on the resurrection day from behind the Throne : 0 the followers of   	Muhammad, I have forgiven the trust which I reposed in you. Now there remain   	in your rights. Give them one to another and enter paradise through My   	mercy. Hazrat Ibn Obadah reported : I heard the Prophet say : God made Hell   	unlawful for one who testifies that there is no deity but God and that   	Muhammad is His Messenger,
  	The Prophet said: God will say to the angels on the Resurrection Day : Take   	out the man from Hell in whom you find good even to the measure of a dinar.   	They will say : 0 Lord, we have taken them out whom you have ordered us to   	take out. Then He will say: Go and take out one in whom you find good to the   	weight of half a dinar. Then they will take out many men. They will say : We   	have taken out those whom you h ave ordered us to take out. He will say : Go   	and take out one in whom you find good to the weight of a mustard seed. Then   	they will take out many men. They will then say : 0 our Lord, we have taken   	out those whom you have ordered us to take out.
  	The Prophet said: God will say : The apostles have interceded, the Prophets   	interceded and the believers interceded. There is none now except the Most   	Merciful. He will take out of Hell by His Hand a party of men who never did   	any good deed. They became like burnt coal and they-will be thrown in a   	river of life in the mouth of paradise. They will come out of-that river as   	straw is swept away by current. Don't you see the trees and stones that face   	the sun taking green colour and those that
  	DEATH  AND SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Vol-IV
  	436 DEATH AND SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Vol-IV
  	remained in shade assume white colour? They said: 0 Apostle of God, you are   	as it were wandering in plains. He said : They will come out like jewels   	with necklace on their necks.
  	
  	Ibn Abbas reported : One day the Prophet came out to us and said': All the   	nations were presented to me. With a prophet, there was only one man, with   	another there were only two, with another there was nobody, and with another   	there were a party of men. I found many parties with one Prophet. It was   	said to me that he was Moses and those people were his followers. I was said   	: Look on and I found numerous people covering the whole horizon. I was said   	that these are my followers. Out of these, there are seventy thousand people   	who will enter Paradise without account. The Prophet said : God has promised   	me that He will aa.nit seventy thousand of my followers in paradise without   	account, I prayed for more to Lord and I found Him merciful. He told me to   	give salvation seventy thousand men with every man of the above mentioned   	seventy thousands. I said : 0 Lord, will my followers reach that limit? He   	said : I will give salvation for you numerous persons like the number of the   	entire Arabs.
  	
  	The Prophet said: Gebrail came to the cave Hira and said to me : Give good   	news to your followers that he who dies without setting up a partner with   	God will enter paradise. I asked : 0 Gebrail, even if he steals and   	fornicates? He said : Even if he steals and fornicates. This was repeated   	thrice. The Prophet once recited this verse : From him who fears God, there   	are two gardens. The narrator asked : Even if he steals and fornicates? The   	Prophet said: Even if he steals and fornicates.
  	
  	The Prophet said: No Muslim will die till he sees his place in Hell filled   	up by a Jew or a Christian. It was   	reported that a child was searching his mother in a battle field. Afterwards   	finding his mother he came running to her. She took her child in her lap and   	cried out : My child, my child, The Prophet said to his companions. God will   	show more kindness to you than the mother showing affection to her child .   	At this, the Muslims were overjoyed and went away. From this Hadis we may   	cherish hope that God will shower His blessings and kindness on us, even   	though we are not fit for such favours.
  	
  	THE END

&nbsp;

If   you do not understand the meaning of any TERM, please email me:

    Shamas3k@yahoo.com

  'Abu Hararah (Great Narator of Hadith of Prophet Muhammad') once said ' Prophet   taught me two kind of knowledge. First kind is Hedith&nbsp; that I am telling you all   always. But 2nd kind I cannot tell you, as if tell the 2nd   kind (most probably about Spirit), I will be killed'.

  --------------------------------------------------------------------- </font>NOBLE QURAN&nbsp; (Surah Maidah verse 116)

  116. And (remember) when All'h(GOD) will say (on the Day of   Resurrection): &quot;O 'Iesa(Jesus), son of Maryam(Mary)! Did you say unto men:   'Worship me and my mother as two gods besides All'h(GOD)?' &quot; He will say: &quot;Glory   be to You! It was not for me to say what I had no right (to say). Had I said   such a thing, You would surely have known it. You know what is in my inner'self   though I do not know what is in Yours, truly, You, only You, are the All'Knower   of all that is hidden and unseen.   </big></big></big></strong></body>  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/NDERF/Articles/islamic_views_death.htm