{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/NDERF\/Articles\/theory_happens.htm","mytitle":"What happens to a human being with the experience of death.","mylang":"de"}
          	        What happens to a human being with the experience of death.                            	            		

Theory - What happens to a human being with the experience of death?    
  Home Page  Current NDEs  Share NDE</span>     	</tr>      

  By Sean McCleary 

  I do important work on the evolution of consciousness, matter and energy and how these three aspects of existence are responsible for the evolutionary development and advancement of life contained in time and space. In this article I will explain in exact detail what happens when a human being goes through the experience of death. The reason that I understand this information with very powerful specifics involved is due to an experience I had in 2011 that involved scientific and divine activity occurring in Earth's consciousness and time and space here that my consciousness evolved into and my intellect has been advancing with a process known in the metaphysical community as the Shift in Consciousness. This phenomenon is very real I assure you and my consciousness has become integrated into this evolutionary activity on Earth and I understand why this has happened to me in Earth’s environment.  My consciousness is going through a very powerful form of evolution now and what I am about to explain exemplifies this occurrence.     

      The experience of death is not that difficult if you have the right information for the foundation of activity in consciousness, time and space. This foundation is a primary field of energy which permeates throughout the universe called the Higgs field. Physicists understand this field of energy which gives mass to everything in the universe and the Higgs boson which is a subatomic particle that is an excitation of this field of energy which interacts with other particles. The reason that death has been so difficult to understand is because the element of consciousness needs to be introduced into the behavior of matter and energy everywhere in the universe and I use the term Universal Consciousness with my work and the term "universe" is a description of what human beings perceive in Universal Consciousness. There has been a lot of discussion among certain individuals on the subject of Panpsychism lately. This theory suggests that the element of consciousness is contained within everything in time and space and this is absolutely correct; but human beings on Earth contain a very powerful perception and experience of separation in consciousness which is responsible for the particular reality that they live in on planet Earth and I will explain why this has happened in this location of time and space.     

     There has been discussion on the elements of vibrations in time and space in physics concerning aspects of evolution with matter and energy. Consciousness is included in this activity as well. Beyond the subatomic level on the most powerful quantum level there are frequency vibrations everywhere. These frequency vibrations represent the element of consciousness and the vibrations themselves represent the element of thought. Consciousness has to exist on this level for the purpose of the evolutionary activity of matter and energy and the process of conceptualization exists at this level in different degrees which drives evolution. Universal Consciousness, solar systems, planets, stars, living organisms on planets are all concepts and therefore had to be conceptualized with the evolution of consciousness. With the subject of panpsychism people have asked them selves how could a rock or spoon be conscious? What's important to observe with a question like this is where do these objects exist. They exist in Earth's environment and Earth contains very powerful male and female consciousness because of the population of male and female species on Earth and all the living organisms on Earth evolve out of Earth's consciousness into Earth's environment as well. Of course there is the reproductive process and this represents the evolution of life and individual consciousness but all of this activity is incorporated into Earth's evolutionary advancement. Panpsychism really involves the primary identity of what is contained everywhere in existence. The rock spoon or other type of matter contained in Earth’s consciousness contains frequency vibrations associated with Earth’s consciousness and evolutionary advancement. Subatomic, atomic and molecular activity contain consciousness in reference to the identity of what type of evolutionary activity is happening with Universal Consciousness, the consciousness of a planet or the consciousness of a living organism on a planet.     

      Universal Consciousness is very much alive and also contains very powerful male and female consciousness and exists within a much larger body of consciousness which I refer to as Infinite Consciousness that is responsible for the life of Universal Consciousness. Infinite Consciousness had been existing forever before Universal Consciousness was introduced. I need to discuss this information first in order to explain the process of death on Earth effectively. Infinite Consciousness contains consciousness everywhere in the form of light and dark energy. On the most fundamental level consciousness and higher frequency vibrations generate light energy and consciousness and lower frequency vibrations generate dark energy. Infinite Consciousness also contains eternal love in the highest degree and eternal love is contained within both of these forms of energy and this activity exists on planet Earth. Love and light energy in the consciousness is represented by comfort, nurturing, peace, compassion and love. Love and dark energy in the consciousness is represented by strength, fortitude, perseverance, fearlessness and empowerment. The sensation of love is different with light and dark energy because the frequency vibrations are different. All life forms and matter in time and space in Universal Consciousness evolve out of light and dark energy and contain these two forms of energy in varying degrees and this affects the evolution of living organisms.      

       There wasn't any matter contained in Infinite Consciousness only frequency vibrations, eternal love, light and dark energy. This consciousness had been existing forever exchanging light and dark energy with eternal love and this was existence before Universal Consciousness. Something happened before 13.8 billion years ago which generated the introduction of Universal Consciousness. Pressure is also involved in the evolutionary exchange of light and dark energy because the frequency vibrations are different. Light energy in consciousness generates higher frequency vibrations and dark energy generates lower frequency vibrations. With the exchange, integration and evolution of these two forms of energy because the frequency vibrations are different this causes pressure to accumulate within these vibrations and pressure fuels expansion, acceleration and the evolution of consciousness. The vibrations themselves represent the experience and existence of thought in the foundation of consciousness. Infinite Consciousness had been evolving everywhere on an infinite level. What happened was there eventually became an increase in pressure due to evolution and the pressure itself experienced more evolution and got more powerful. When the pressure became more powerful in these vibrations what happened for the very first time was this consciousness went through the experience of separation. This is because when pressure increases in the vibrations of thought it can produce the sensation of separation in consciousness and this is what Infinite Consciousness felt for the very first time. What happened was evolution itself was calling for the existence of more consciousness or life within Infinite Consciousness in order to further the advancement of the evolution of consciousness. This was the beginning of the introduction of Universal Consciousness. The reason I am explaining this first is I need to clarify how death was introduced into existence.     

       As soon as Infinite Consciousness felt this sensation of separation this consciousness had a very powerful moment of self-actualization and thought; “will I continue existing forever ? As soon as this consciousness experienced this Infinite Consciousness conceptualized death and non-existence. Non-existence is only a concept because this concept was generated by Infinite Consciousness; so death actually became another form of consciousness within Infinite Consciousness and this transferred out everywhere. This is also the first time fear was introduced. Fear originates on a quantum level due to the pressure that accumulates within the frequency vibrations of light and dark energy. How much fear that is experienced is dependent upon how much love is contained within the pressure itself because love is the foundation for the evolution of consciousness and exists within consciousness, light energy, dark energy and pressure. This is also the foundation for a human being and a human being contains love which evolves within these elements. This activity in Infinite Consciousness was evolution saying “hey you have existed forever it’s time for a change with the introduction of a new development in consciousness in order to further your own advancement”. This is why Universal Consciousness was introduced and this was the development of a different form of consciousness with the introduction of matter. The early formation of Universal Consciousness began inside of Infinite Consciousness similar to the development of a child in the womb of a mother. This is actually why reproduction exists in living organisms is due to the early developmental stages of Universal Consciousness before the introduction with matter known in scientific terms as the big bang.     

        What was contained in the early formation of Universal Consciousness was consciousness, light energy, dark energy, pressure in varying degrees, eternal love, eternal life and now the element and consciousness and energy of death. Eternal life in consciousness and energy represents a specific form of energy in existence. The element and consciousness and energy of death represents a much different form of consciousness and energy and evolved out of the thought process of Infinite Consciousness; so a different form of energy evolved into existence. These two primary forms of energy began evolving in the early developmental stages as two very different forms of energy. This is the foundation for all of the electrical and electromagnetic activity in Universal Consciousness everywhere. There was also a very powerful level of neutrality contained in the early formation as well with the activity that was occurring. Because there are so many variables in time and space with evolutionary activity there are numerous amounts of exchanges of energy in Universal Consciousness with evolution and the behavior of matter and energy. Death is an actual form of consciousness in Universal Consciousness in different locations and concentrations because this consciousness was generated out of Infinite Consciousness and I will explain what happens with the evolution of life and death in living organisms on planet Earth. The early formation of eternal life and the consciousness and energy which contained death were evolving with light and dark energy in the early formation of Universal Consciousness. You have probably heard before that you contain what Universal Consciousness contains. The foundation for a human being is consciousness, light energy, dark energy, pressure and life and death.    

          I will explain why a human being and other living organisms on Earth contain this element of consciousness within them and when they go through the actual process of death; because death is a form of consciousness and energy and originates from Infinite Consciousness this allows for the transfer of consciousness into the Whirlpool galaxy where God’s home is located. If death wasn’t a form of consciousness and energy in time and space if a human beings body died then their consciousness wouldn’t transfer anywhere. Death represents the evolution of consciousness and prevents a complete separation from time and space in Universal Consciousness and death advances consciousness into a much greater state of evolution and I will also explain why this happens.  In the early stages of development for Universal Consciousness the activity became very powerful with evolution and resistance to evolution. The resistance to evolution came from Universal Consciousness originally belonging to Infinite Consciousness and this new development was occurring with the introduction of a new form of consciousness and energy with the element of death. Eternal love was also contained in the formation which transferred in from Infinite Consciousness and a primary form of energy was forming in the process that was occurring known in scientific terms as the Higgs field. The Higgs field is a combination of Infinite Consciousness, the primary identity of Universal Consciousness (similar to the existence of DNA in living organisms), eternal love and eternal life. This primary field of energy had to evolve in order to maintain a connectivity between Universal Consciousness and Infinite Consciousness. Physicists understand this field of energy as the primary field of energy which permeates throughout Universal Consciousness that gives mass to everything. This of course is correct but this field of energy is the foundation in Universal Consciousness for eternal love and eternal life. Eternal love and the evolution of Infinite Consciousness has been consistently transferring eternal love into Universal Consciousness to further the evolution of love itself and the advancement of life.     

       There was a very powerful mixture of consciousness and energy forming in the early developmental stages of Universal Consciousness with light energy, dark energy, pressure, evolution and resistance to evolution that was being generated in certain aspects of Universal Consciousness due to the experience of separation. This resistance came from certain aspects of consciousness in the formation which did not understand what was happening with evolution and this consciousness felt like he/she were becoming separated from this Infinite source of consciousness. This was primarily pressure that accumulated within very powerful dark energy and some light energy in the formation where pressure was becoming restricted due to the uncertainty of change and a very powerful level of fear. Some of this consciousness that was forming which represented resistance went through a powerful experience of separation and the eternal love contained in the formation had a difficult time transferring into the resistance from the pressure that was very restrictive in this consciousness. This is also exemplified in a human being. A human being contains love and resistance to the evolution of consciousness and love in different degrees on a global level. When a child is born into Earth’s environment after being used to a warm comfortable inside connection with the mother and all of a sudden this child has to be pushed or yanked out of that environment they go through a very powerful and frightening experience and this generates the experience of separation in consciousness from leaving the mothers environment. This experience transfers into the consciousness of the child and transfers into subconscious energy as the individual develops in Earth’s environment. This experience can be responsible for certain behavioral patters in human beings.     

        What happened with the early developmental stages of Universal Consciousness was evolution got very powerful and the resistance continued to fight the process and this was just a natural occurrence due to the powerful changes that were occurring. Eventually as evolution is more powerful that the resistance; the resistance could no longer fight the process and a lot of pressure was released and the consciousness and energy of eternal life collided with the consciousness and energy of death. This was just like a positive charge and a negative charge colliding and fusing together to produce a much more powerful level of evolution and a very powerful fusion occurred with light and dark energy as well. This fusion is what caused the frequency vibrations of consciousness, light energy, dark energy and pressure to form matter and subatomic activity began evolving out of the frequency vibrations of light and dark energy in varying degrees. Atomic and molecular activity began evolving and advancing as well out of this process.  In scientific terms this is how the big bang happened and this was the expansion and acceleration of the evolution of consciousness and a new development of life within Infinite Consciousness which was absolutely necessary with the introduction of matter. Universal Consciousness began a new formation and galaxies, solar systems, planets and living organisms formed. The reason I mentioned he/she in reference to Universal Consciousness is because this cosmic giant with a body of galaxies contains male and female consciousness. Female consciousness originates from the higher frequency vibrations of light energy and male consciousness originates from the lower frequency vibrations of dark energy. When fusion, expansion and acceleration happened with Universal Consciousness the two forms of energy became concentrated in life in different degrees everywhere along with pressure contained within the frequency vibrations of light and dark energy. Very powerful pressure had to be introduced into these vibrations because matter requires pressure in order to sustain form with light and dark energy. When Universal Consciousness developed so did the Higgs field and this primary field of energy contains a combination of the frequency vibrations of both light and dark energy and this is necessary for evolution because these are the two primary forms of energy which drive the evolution of consciousness, matter and energy in time and space. The Higgs field like I mentioned contains eternal life and eternal love and this is how love evolves in Universal Consciousness, planets and living organisms on planets.     

       There are other fields of energy which correspond with different subatomic activity as well which support the evolution of consciousness, matter and energy everywhere in Universal Consciousness. I needed to discuss this information first in reference to the experience of death so I can effectively explain what’s been occurring in Earth’s consciousness with the experience of death. Earth evolved into the Milky Way galaxy around 4.5 billion years ago. The consciousness, matter and energy contained in the Milky Way galaxy is 13.51 billion years old and this consciousness contains memory in time and space. What is contained in this region of Universal Consciousness is stored activity in consciousness, time and space of the early developmental stages and introduction. Earth is located very close to where all that original activity occurred and there is a very powerful concentration of both life and death in this location; and this was necessary for evolutionary purposes. Earth is very important in reference to the overall development of Universal Consciousness and soon the entire population of Earth will understand why with the introduction of the Shift in Consciousness and this activity is rapidly emerging now. Earth is a very powerful living organism with a male and female consciousness because Earth supports the evolution of the male and female species of life and there is global activity happening with reproduction and the introduction of life. This activity represents the introduction of more consciousness matter and energy in order to further the advancement of life. All of this is an evolutionary extension of what happened with the introduction of Universal Consciousness. There are almost 9 million different species of life contained on a global level. The introduction of life and the experience of death on Earth with living organisms is happening within fractions of a second.     

         Earth evolved into a very powerful location in Universal Consciousness with the concentration of the consciousness and energy of death because of Earth’s location in time and space. The Higgs field is incorporated into Earth’s consciousness as well but living organisms on Earth don’t have a lot of interaction with this field of energy due to the experience of separation in consciousness and both life and death being introduced into consciousness as well. The Higgs field which contains eternal love and eternal life has been evolving through the transfer of eternal love from Infinite Consciousness in Earth’s consciousness and the Milky Way galaxy. The consciousness and energy of death has also been evolving in Earth’s consciousness as well and soon both will become incorporated together through evolution and this is what the Shift in Consciousness is about is the experience of separation will be over with for life on Earth. In the Lord’s Prayer it states “thy kingdom come thy will be done on Earth as it is in Heaven”. In God’s home both life and death in consciousness, time and space are evolved into one form of consciousness and energy. If a human being on Earth that is alive goes through the experience of death what happens is they evolve through the Higgs field and transfer into world’s contained in the Whirlpool galaxy. When they fully evolve through Universal Consciousness and arrive into God’s home that individual contains both life and death within every fiber of their being and the experience of separation in consciousness is over and therefore they remain eternal. They have been through the experience of death and this consciousness evolved into them with this experience. I will explain this process that living organisms go through on planet Earth. Death has been evolving into Earth’s consciousness from Universal Consciousness ever since Earth was introduced and this is why the extinction level has been so powerful here on Earth.     

      Earth's consciousness contains the existence of the Higgs field which contains eternal love and eternal life. Earth’s consciousness also contains the consciousness and energy of death. As soon as a living organism is conceived in time, space and consciousness here some of the consciousness and energy of death transfers into the living organism. Let me say this first; with a human being in God’s home death is fully evolved within them and the process begins for them on Earth. Life begins for a human being through reproduction and as soon as an identity is established with consciousness in time and space the consciousness and energy of death evolves into the individual as well because death is contained in Earth’s consciousness and human beings evolve in Earth’s environment. A human being is introduced into the environment as a living organism and also contains some of the consciousness and energy of death. Human beings don’t understand why they exist on Earth or the foundation for their existence as well. Life and consciousness exist on Earth to assist with the evolution and complete incorporation of life and death because these two primary forms of consciousness and energy have to evolve together within matter everywhere due to the initial introduction from Infinite Consciousness. With the Shift in Consciousness what’s happening is all the matter in Universal Consciousness is now joining Infinite Consciousness and the experience of separation in consciousness everywhere will end forever. Human beings also don’t understand what happens with the experience of death. What this does along with having both life and death contained within themselves is generates a very powerful experience of separation in consciousness. Beyond the subatomic level the human body contains the higher frequency vibrations of light energy, the lower frequency vibrations of dark energy and very powerful pressure contained within the activity of these vibrations. The foundation for human existence is consciousness, light energy, dark energy and pressure; because this is the foundation for matter in existence.     

      Because a human being contains life, death and a lack of understanding in these two primary aspects of existence it generates a very powerful level of separation in the consciousness and resistance to evolution. The Higgs field contains eternal love and eternal life. What this means is the body itself of a human being automatically repels the consciousness and energy of the Higgs field from the individual. This happens with all living organisms on planet Earth. Human beings don’t have much interaction with the Higgs field for this reason and what this also means is they can’t see, feel or detect the rest of the evolutionary activity happening in Universal Consciousness. Even with the most powerful equipment scientists haven’t been able to detect other life form in Universal Consciousness and there is other life form everywhere in Universal Consciousness; they simply cannot see what’s happening due to the limited interaction with the Higgs field and the experience of separation in consciousness. The Higgs field contains the existence of infinity from Infinite Consciousness and eternal life from Infinite Consciousness which transfers into Universal Consciousness and all forms of matter. Because the human body contains this powerful experience of separation and resistance to evolution they don’t have much interaction with the Higgs field and this generates aging rapidly on Earth and eventually they go through the actual process of death and this represents the evolution of consciousness in a very powerful way in time and space.     

       I will use aging as an example but this process takes place with any forms of death that happen in Earth’s environment. When a person goes through the experience of death what happens is the pressure and resistance to the experience of death that’s contained within the frequency vibrations of light and dark energy in the body is released and the consciousness, identity, light energy and dark energy contained within the individual transfers into the Higgs field almost instantly. The Higgs field supports the evolution of the individuals consciousness and this happens with all living organisms on planet Earth. Any resistance contained in the individual like hatred, anger, resentment, repression, regression or evil transfers out of the individual at the time of death because these type of aspects in human consciousness come from a very powerful restriction in pressure contained in mostly dark energy and some light energy. It is not dark energy that is responsible for the element of evil in the consciousness; it is a very powerful form of restrictive type pressure in mostly dark energy which generates a very powerful experience of separation from love. This powerful form of pressure in the consciousness which causes this type of separation and these characteristics of resistance in consciousness is responsible for a lot of different behavioral characteristics in human beings. All living organisms on Earth transfer into the Whirlpool galaxy and forgiveness is delivered where forgiveness is due. The Holy Trinity loves planet Earth and all life on Earth in such a powerful and wonderful way and this will be revealed with the Shift in Consciousness and the truth will be delivered into the human race. The Higgs field permeates throughout Universal Consciousness and goes through expansion and acceleration with the evolution of Universal Consciousness. The individuals consciousness transfers much faster than the speed of light because they are evolving through the source that generates light energy in the first place; Infinite Consciousness which is incorporated into the Higgs field. Universal Consciousness contains the primary activity of the behavior of matter and energy which is happening in time and space so when an individual living organism experiences death and transfers into the Higgs field a wormhole is generated because of the two different types of activity occurring in Universal Consciousness.     

        People who have described an NDE have mentioned the absolute beauty and peace they have experienced. This happens with the experience of death because both life and death evolve together in the consciousness completely because the individual has now gone through the experience so there is nothing to fear or resist anymore. The individuals consciousness transfers very quickly through Universal Consciousness and the consciousness experiences evolutionary advancement on the way to the Whirlpool galaxy which is about 23 million light years from Earth. The Whirlpool galaxy contains world’s that consciousness transfers into from planet Earth and there is a variety of world’s in this galaxy with different concentrations of light energy, dark energy and pressure and this galaxy contains eternal life as well and this is why the term Heaven is used on Earth because all the life in the Whirlpool galaxy has their consciousness incorporated completely into the Higgs field. As the individual is nearing one of these world’s in this galaxy what happens is the consciousness of the individual begins evolving with matter contained in the galaxy and the world they are transferring into. Matter such as nitrogen, hydrogen, oxygen and all the necessary elements which allow for anatomical development to take place because they exist in another world and have a body as well.     

         As the individual transfers into one of these world’s what happens is the evolution of their consciousness, matter and energy takes place very quickly with all the necessary elements that make up the physical body. They transfer very quickly into the environment and the process of evolution takes place with the body as well and it is like awakening from a peaceful sleep and they are completely aware of what has happened. Because the experience of separation is over and they don’t contain anymore resistance like on Earth the physical body is much more advanced and so is the consciousness. This is what happens with the experience of death with all living organisms on Earth. I did need to explain in this article though where the origin of death came from. Life and death are in the process of evolving and converging together now on planet Earth through the process of the Shift in Consciousness and soon this entire world will evolve into a wonderful and much different state of reality. This event is very real I can assure you and it is emerging very quickly now in time, space and consciousness here in this region of Universal Consciousness and with planet Earth. Soon human beings will be introduced to very powerful and significant changes due to the evolution of consciousness.    </p>    

[1] https://www.nderf.org/NDERF/Articles/theory_happens.htm