{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/NDERF\/Articles\/buddhism_nde.htm","mytitle":"Buddhism & NDE","mylang":"de"}
          	Buddhism & NDE                     	            		

  Buddhism & NDE    
  Home Page  Current NDEs  Share NDE</span>     	</tr>

  Buddhism &amp; NDE by Hawa   Bangura 
  &nbsp;

  Since reading   the numerous experiences on your site, I came to the conclusion that the Buddha,   who was a human being and not a god, may have had a near-death experience or was   otherwise able to access the level of consciousness seemingly described in the   experiences on your site ' which is called Buddhahood/enlightenment.&nbsp;

  Historically,   the Buddha (or 'enlightened one'), a prince by birth who gave up everything in   search of the truth, was said to have attained enlightenment while meditating   under the bodhi tree in a place called Bodhgaya some 3000 years ago. He then   began teaching, and for about 40 years, he taught according to the capacity of   the people to understand his teachings. Thereafter he finally began expounding   the teachings in the Lotus Sutra, and he claimed that he was for the first time   going to reveal the truth, and that all his prior teachings had been merely   provisional or preparatory.&nbsp;

  The Lotus   Sutra is different from the other teachings in numerous respects, but   particularly because in it the Buddha states that he first attained   enlightenment not under the bodhi tree but a period of time ago so lengthy it   cannot be put into words. He also describes numerous past existences and states   that since that time he has been in and out of this world of ours teaching   people. He says death or entering extinction is simply an expedient.&nbsp;&nbsp; (See The   Lotus Sutra, trans. Burton Watson, Columbia University Press, 1993, p.225-227).&nbsp;

  Buddhism   teaches that we have nine levels of consciousness ' the first five are   equivalent to our five senses, the sixth is the 'mind' which integrates   information gathered from the 5 senses, the seventh is volition or 'free will'   and sense of self, the eighth is the storehouse, where all our karma is recorded   ' i.e. everything that we have ever done, said or thought; and the ninth is   Buddhahood or enlightenment, which is characterized as a state of compassion,   profound wisdom, eternity, true self and purity. Upon death, the first seven   consciousnesses are said to dissappear and only the eighth and ninth remain (See   SGI Quarterly, April 2004, p. 28-29).&nbsp; Regarding the ultimate reality, the   Buddha at times states he cannot describe what it is, it is emptiness, nothing   but also everything, words would only limit it, the Muryogi Sutra lists a number   of negations to say what it isn't because it is so difficult to describe what it   is. This is eerily similar to the language used by some NDErs to describe their   experiences when they come into the light, which is why I stated that the Buddha   must have either had a near death experience or was otherwise able to access his   9th level of consciousness. Or conversely, the NDErs are simply   accessing the 8th and 9th levels of consciousness. &nbsp;

  Regarding the knowledge   possessed by a Buddha, he states that this wisdom 'is infinitely profound and   immeasurable', he states he is 'awakened to the Law never before attained', and   that this reality can only be shared between Buddhas (i.e. enlightened ones/   those in the 9th level). (See The Lotus Sutra, p.24-24) .    This reminds me of the knowledge attained by the NDErs when they enter the   light, but which they forget once they return, as they are no longer operating   at that highest level of consciousness. The Buddha teaches that enlightenment is   a state of life that all human beings without exception are capable of attaining   ' but he did not say how (which is where Nichiren comes in and clarifies with   the chanting of Nam Myoho Renge Kyo). &nbsp;

  The   storehouse, which cannot be accessed by our human senses, but becomes accessible   upon death, also seems to correspond to the life review ' the karma in the   storehouse includes not only karma created in this lifetime but for infinite   prior lifetimes. Our karma also determines why our lives are the way they are '   i.e. whether we are reborn beautiful/ugly, wealthy/poor, healthy/sickly,   male/female, black/white, have short lives or long ones, etc, etc.&nbsp; To a certain   extent, we are also said to voluntarily assume the appropriate karma in order to   fulfill our mission in this lifetime. (The NDErs, however, do not cross over and   get reborn, so I cannot comment on this part; although a number of them seem to   suggest that while 'dead' they come to understand why their present lives are   the way they are). &nbsp;&nbsp;

  Although   Buddhism does not teach of a god as described in other religions, the lotus   sutra (as clarified by Nichiren) describes the law of Myoho Renge Kyo which is   the ultimate reality, the law of life and death, the very life force of the   entire universe itself, it gives rise to everything and is everything. In other   words, for ease of understanding, 'God' (or Myoho Renge Kyo) is nowhere but   inside your own life. It is your life itself. It teaches that we are all   interconnected and are all one with the law. A number of NDErs seem to come to a   similar understanding.&nbsp;

  This Buddhism   has no rules; the most important lesson is to have compassion and respect for   our fellow human beings, as each person is a Buddha/has the Buddha nature.   Whatever you choose to do, you can do, but must realize that you are entirely   responsible for your actions, as they will be recorded in the storehouse.&nbsp;

  Other   parallel concepts that seem to be echoed in the NDEs/Buddhist philosophy are:&nbsp;

  The eternity   of life ' Life has no beginning and no end, we are in a cycle of birth and   death.&nbsp;

  Other   Universes ' the Buddha talks of many other worlds with other life forms&nbsp;

  Choice ' the   doctrine of three thousand realms in a single moment of life basically teaches   of 3000 possibilities in each moment in time ' we choose which one to take based   on our dominant karmic tendencies or based on enlightenment&nbsp;

  Illness '   Nichiren sates that people who are ill can quickly attain the way of the Buddha   (this makes sense, particularly with the terminally ill NDErs &nbsp;

  Memory '   Nichiren teaches that we cannot remember any of our past lives, all we can   remember in this life is that we embraced the true law.&nbsp;

  The Buddha's   six transcendental powers ' described as: 1- the power of being anywhere at   will, 2- the power of seeing anything anywhere, 3- the power of hearing any   sound anywhere, 4- the power of knowing the thoughts of all other minds, 5- the   power of knowing past lives, and 6- the power of eradicating illusions. &nbsp;

  Similar to   what is described in the NDEs, Buddhism teaches that life continues even after   the 'death' of our physical bodies.&nbsp;

  The Sutra   states, 'There is no ebb or flow of birth and death and there is no existing in   this world and later entering extinction. It is neither substantial nor empty,   neither consistent nor diverse. Nor is it what those who dwell in the threefold   world perceive it to be. All such things the Thus Come One (Buddha) sees clearly   and without error' (See The Lotus Sutra, p.227).&nbsp;

  Nichiren also   states, 'To conceive of life and death as separate realities is to be caught in   the illusion of birth and death. It is deluded and inverted thinking. When we   examine the nature of life with perfect enlightenment, we find that there is no   beginning marking birth and therefore no end signifying death' (See Gosho Zenshu   p.563 ' Japanese language compilation of letters, treatises, essays and oral   teachings of Nichiren)&nbsp;   Please note that the   foregoing are just my own personal conclusions/observations and not part of the   doctrine of Nichiren Buddhism. Personally, I believe that all religions are   really trying to say the same thing, although most (including some schools of   Buddhism) have been corrupted by human beings to serve their own ends.&nbsp; 
  
  &nbsp;     </body>  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/NDERF/Articles/buddhism_nde.htm