{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/NDERF\/Articles\/Tony%20Robbins.htm","mytitle":"Tony Robbins","mylang":"de"}
          	          Tony Robbins                     	            		

Tony  Robbins    
  Home Page  Current NDEs  Share NDE</span>     	</tr>      
  I had the most exciting weekend and just have to tell you about it!
  
  I only briefly saw the sun because the seminar was so long on all four
  days.  We would start at 9:00 and go straight through with one break a
  day until 11:00 p.m. -1:00 in the morning.  Needless to say, sleep and
  food were not plentiful.
  
  Wow!  That Tony Robbins seminar was simply the best!  I think the
  experience was the second most defining time of my life (next to
  standing on the stage when I got my law school degree).  The experience
  was so impressive!  I came back hoarse, but ecstatic from four days of
  yelling combined with clapping, dancing, hugs, and massages.  I did the
  firewalk where I made it across the burning coals in bare feet.  I not
  only learned so much about myself, my motives, and how to change that
  motivation to achieve my goals; but I was able to integrate myself on a
  mental, emotional, physical, and spiritual level.  The subconscious
  component of this seminar was truly awe inspiring.  And. . . for the
  first time I feel totally connected to myself and to life.  I feel like
  I'm really living in the world rather than just going through the
  motions.  In this state, I feel like I can do anything.
  
  The first day was mind over matter - the firewalk was incredible.  I
  found I have a tendency to center myself and pull my spirit up out of
  my body when confronting my fears.  But. . .  they forced me to pull my
  energy down into my hara and stay physically connected to the
  experience in a peak state.  A new pattern when dealing with life .  I
  think it was also interesting that the fears and goals that I went in
  with changed position on the value system.  What I really was afraid of
  surfaced and what I really wanted came out.  I was able to define my
  goals in terms that made more motivational sense so that I would
  achieve them.
  
  The second day was an integration break through for me. I was able to
  break through a lot of psychological barriers.  The third day was
  pretty powerful where I was able to turn the inner child from a
  fearful, restrained child into a princess.  He used a lot of timeline
  techniques where you replaced negative childhood images with positive
  ones.  There was a lot of leverage created psychologically to enable
  the mind to change.
  
  The fourth day was a health seminar.  Pretty impressive too.  The way
  he had described meat had linked a new association so strong in my
  brain, that I had a few surprises when I ordered dinner at the airport.
   I was starving since food (and time to eat it) was probably the
  biggest problem with the weekend.  I sat down to a wonderful pasta meal
  with sliced roast beef in it.  I couldn't eat the meat without a gag
  reflex.  So I settled for the bread and the pastas.  Then I tried to
  eat the delicious mud pie - (you know chocolate my absolute favorite)-
  Couldn't get past half and then started feeling sick.  One of my goals
  was to master eating healthy, but I didn't expect that result.
  
  And the best part . . .  Coming home and being with my girls.  We had
  tons of hugs and a wonderful time.  The connection with myself and with
  life transferred to love and enthusiasm to those closest with me.  We
  talked and teased.  It was tremendous!  So guess what two little
  entities are going to go through the power CD's with me?  They're going
  to live a new life too.
  
  Just had to share :)
  
  
  </body>  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/NDERF/Articles/Tony%20Robbins.htm