{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/NDERF\/Research\/not_ur_time.pdf","mytitle":"<span class=\"color_dark d_inline_b\"><span class=\"icon_wrap_size_0 circle color_grey_light_5 d_block tr_inherit f_left\"><i class=\"icon-angle-right\"><\/i><\/span>Not Your Time Hoffman<\/span>","mylang":"de"}
On the Instances of the Phrase “It’s Not Your Time Yet” and Related
Variants in NDEs from Non-European, Non-English Speaking Countries
Eric Hoffmann
hoffmann3353@hotmail.com
Summary
Below is the summary of the instances of NDE stories where experiencers were told “It’s not
your time yet.” and closely related phrases from non-European, non-English speaking countries
between 1998 and 2022 from the NDERF website which were labelled NDE experiences
(excluding Possible NDE, Probable NDE, etc.). The focus on these countries was due to the
possibility that hearing such phrases may be due in part to linguistic or cultural influences. All
NDE accounts from non-European, non-English speaking countries among the top 150 countries
in total population were considered, as of February 1, 2023. In total, 252 total stories were found
that met these criteria. I found that there were 28 instances of experiencers being told that it was
“not their time yet” or only slight deviations from this phrase (such as being told “it’s not your
time”, “it’s not yet your time”, “not yet”, or reporting being told that it’s “not my moment”),
which amounts to roughly 11.1% of experiences. Allowing a slightly larger deviation from this
base phrase (such as “He kept saying that I shouldn't get in - that he would come back for me at
the right time, not now.”) yields a total of 32 stories, or roughly 12.7% of all such experiences.
I also distinguish between South American and non-South American countries, as this group may
considered by many to be “western”, whatever that should entail exactly. I summarize the
findings after making this distinction in the following table:
Non-Western, Non-
English Speaking
NDEs (1998-2002)
Total number of
Experiences
Instances of “it’s not
your time yet”,
allowing slight
deviations
Instances of “it’s not
your time yet”,
allowing slight to
moderate deviations
Non-South American 142 13 (9.2%) 15 (10.5%)
South American 110 15 (13.6%) 17 (15.4%)
Total 252 28 (11.1%) 32 (12.7%)
A previous investigation of mine found that on average among all countries (including European
and English-speaking countries), roughly 9-11% of all stories contained the phrase “it’s not your
time yet”, depending on whether one allows only slight or moderate deviations from this phrase.
Therefore, one can reasonably conclude that cultural or linguistic differences do not significantly
influence how likely one is to receive such messages during their experience.
Documentation of Cases by Country
Below I give more detailed information by country, and document each case of this phrase.
Stories excerpts written in normal text indicate that they were counted it among the cases with
only a slight deviation from the phrase “it’s not your time yet”, while those in italics are those
cases counted among those with slight to moderate deviations. The total list of Non-European,
non-English speaking countries among the top 150 in population are reported below the tables.
Non-South American Countries Submitter and Excerpt of Experience
China
(18 total stories, 5 incidences within only
slight deviation, or 27% )
• Chen C: “Then I saw people whom I did not
recognized, and they told me it wasn’t my time
yet, so I needed to go back. Next, a light
appeared and instantly, I was back in the
hospital.”
• Decent Man: “I was very frightened when
these two husky guys pull me aside so far to a
place where no one was there. They said, “It is
not your time yet, go back now.””
• Lee Shi: “Two men came over to her saying
fiercely, 'It is not your time yet, go back!' Then
she regained consciousness.”
• Anonymous: “Then I asked if and when I
could come back here. She told me to wait for
the right time so could come back again.”
India
(36 total stories, 1 incidence within only slight
deviation, or 3%)
• Ashutosh S: “When I followed the voice that
said, ‘you need to go back, your time hasn't
come as yet,’ I gained consciousness.”
Iran
(20 total stories, 2 incidence within only slight
deviation, or 10%)
• Az: “He said I was going to take you but I was
told it is not the time.”
• Dr. Sahar S: “I asked, 'Why don't you let me
in?' The man in front of me said, 'Look at all
these people that have been standing here for
hours. It is not your turn yet. Go, sit down, and
they will call you.' This conversation between
me and him was not like usual conversations.
It is hard to explain. It was like an emotional
understanding without saying any words.”
Philippines
(14 total stories, 2 incidences within only
slight deviation, or 14%)
• Bernadette B: “As I entered the gate I heard a
voice telling me ' Go back, Bernardette (not
the name I use but Bernardita). It is not time
yet.’”
• Steve T: “I saw my father, who had died some
20 years before, and felt others I knew were all
standing around further back behind him. My
father walked towards me and said, 'Son it's
not your time, you'll have to go back.’”
Malaysia
(2 total stories, 1 incidence within slight to
moderate deviation, or 50%)
• Wan I: “…the picture of my grandpa in his
late twenties looked exactly like the young man
whom I met in the light and had smiled at me. I
guess he was saying stop, because it wasn't my
time yet.”
Iraq
(3 total stories, 1 incidence within only slight
deviation, or 33%)
• Dr. M. Ghalabi: “I was ordered to go back. I
was told it was not yet my time that I had to go
back to where I came from. I returned to life,
sad, and in pain.”
Thailand
(2 total stories, 1 incidence within only slight
deviation, or 50%)
• Peter S: “I don't know if it is male or female,
but it very friendly. This person told me, 'You
have to go back, because you need to do a lot
for the people, it is not yet time to come here.'“
Turkey
(7 total stories, 1 incidence within only slight
deviation, or 14%)
• Gulden: “Meantime, I saw my uncle, who died
one month ago, while passing me he said, 'Not
yet.'”
Tunisia
(2 total stories, 1 incidence within only slight
deviation, or 50%)
• Nolwenn: “She didn't open her mouth and
made no sound, but transmitted a message
directly through thought. She made me
understand that it was not my moment; I had to
return to Earth and join my body.”
Israel
(2 total stories, 1 incidence within only slight
deviation, or 50%)
• Israel: “Observing him carefully, I realized that
he was made out of light...Then, all of a
sudden, he commanded with a loving voice,
"You must go back. It is not your time yet.
There are many duties you must complete...
you will be back here in due time. Now
prepare yourself to go back."
The next table presents the cases for the South American countries:
South American Countries Submitter and Excerpt of Experience
Mexico
(44 total stories, 6 incidences within only
slight deviation, or 13.6%)
• Doris: “They were all dressed beautifully in
clothing like large angels. All of a sudden, a
voice told me to go back; it's not your time
yet.“
• Andy B: I told her 'Tell him [referring to God]
to let me stay here, I do not want to go back,
please!' She repeated to me, 'You have to go
back; this is not your time.'”
• Maria G: “As I entered into the light, I heard
someone calling my name. The voice was full
of tenderness saying, 'It is not your time. You
have two children who need you. You must go
back.' “
• Tom M: “My dead sister and grandmother told
me that it was not yet my time and that I must
get back.”
• Lilith W: “He smiled at me and I smiled at him
and asked him if he had come for me. He said
'No', and that he was just there to talk with me.
He said he was charged with telling me it was
still not my time, and that I had to go back
because I was needed and that my questions
would be answered in due course.”
• Martin: “Suddenly in the fog, I could see a
lighter little dot in front of me and it attracted
me. At that moment, I decided to advance; I
hear a masculine voice over my right shoulder
that tells me ‘Not yet’ and touches my
shoulder.”
Brazil
(12 total stories, 1 incident within only slight
deviation, or 8.3%)
• Joon O: “And with his other hand pointing to
the scene of the accident, he said, 'It’s not your
time to come here yet. Go back there and help
a lot of people, and then come back!'”
Argentina
(17 total stories, 4 incidences within only
slight deviation, and 2 incidences within
slight to moderate deviation, or 23.5%, 35%,
respectively)
• Maria SV: “The light opens our consciousness
and was at the end of tunnel. The light had a
telepathic voice that connected with my heart.
That same voice told me it wasn't my time. “
• Mateo: “I felt that I was in my body but I could
not move, and far off I could see a little light.
Something told me I should follow it. I
followed it until it got brighter and brighter,
and then something told me that it was not my
time and that I had to go back.“
• Rosa D: “Many beings were there, and I felt
their happiness on seeing me. My grandfather
and my godfather told me I must be strong, as
it was not yet my time, and I couldn't join
them.”
• Dario F: “I clarified that I was a married man
and that I had a four-year old daughter. I heard
a voice telling me: 'It is not your time; it is not
your time'.”
• Alejandra M: “ I also remember feeling a
sensation of peace, welfare and happiness
beyond description. It was as if I belonged to
that place. Suddenly, the voice of my
conscience told me that it was not my time yet
and that I had to return.”
• Lorena S: “However, he did not let me in and I
was not ready to hear that. I just wanted to get
in, but he kept saying no. He kept saying that I
shouldn't get in - that he would come back for
me at the right time, not now.
Dominican Republic
(3 total stories, 1 incident within only slight
deviation, or 33%)
• Ahly S: “I remember looking at all the billions
and billions of stars. I looked at myself and I
was a star too. At that moment, I heard a soft
voice telling me, 'It is not your time yet.'”
Chile
(7 total stories, 1 incident within only slight
deviation, or 14%)
• Karen G: “a voice told me (a voice coming
from behind me), 'Not yet. It is not your
moment yet.'”
Costa Rica
(2 total stories, 1 incidence within only slight
deviation, or 50%)
• Giselle RV: “They told me that it was not my
time but that due to a medical mistake I arrived
home once again. I still had a lot do and to
learn but under no circumstance did I want to
return to earth.”
Puerto Rico
(5 total stories, 1 incidence within only slight
deviation, or 20%)
• Marisol HF: “A venerable man dressed in
white came near to me and said, 'Daughter,
NO. It is not your time yet. You have to go
back. There are things left for you to
accomplish.'”
The comprehensive list of countries is given below, alongside the total number of stories from
that country. If a country below is not represented in the tables above, this indicates that there
was no story from that particular country which was found to contain the message “It’s not your
time yet” or related variants.
Total list of countries: China (18), India (36), Saudi Arabia (5), Iran (20), Philippines (14),
Malaysia (2), Rwanda (2), United Arab Emirates (1), Libya (1), Iraq (3), Thailand (2), Japan (2),
Korea (5), Egypt (3), Turkey (7), Kenya (3), Yemen (1), Mongolia (1), Algeria (3), Morocco (1),
Taiwan (1), Ghana (1), Rwanda (1), Singapore (1), Gabon (1), Sudan (2), Tunisia (2), Palestine
(1), Israel (2), Pakistan (0), Nigeria (0), Indonesia (0), Bangladesh (0), Ethiopia (0), Vietnam (0),
Congo (0), Tanzania (0), Myanmar (0), Uganda (0), Nepal (0), Sri Lanka (0), Burkina Faso (0),
Syria (0), Senegal (0), Cambodia (0), Chad (0), Mali (0), Kazakhstan (0), Somalia (0),
Zimbabwe (0), Guinea (0), Benin (0), Burundi (0), Jordan (0), Azerbaijan (0), Tajikistan (0),
Togo (0), Sierra Leone (0), Laos (0), Lebanon (0), Oman (0), Liberia (0), Mauritania (0), Eritrea
(0), Armenia (0), Qatar (0), Namibia (0), Gambia (0), Botswana (0), Gabon (0), Lesotho (0),
Mexico (44), Brazil (12), Colombia (8), Argentina (17), Ecuador (2), Panama (1), Uruguay (1),
Cuba (2), Dominican Republic (3), Chile (7), Paraguay (2), Costa Rica (2), El Salvador (1),
Bolivia (3), Puerto Rico (5), Guatemala (0), Haiti (0), Honduras (0), Nicaragua (0), Jamaica (0).
References
1. https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1chen_c_nde.html
2. https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1decent_man_nde.html
3. https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lee_shi_nde.html
4. https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1anonymous_nde_16112.html
5. https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ashutosh_s_nde.html
6. https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1az_nde.html
7. https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bernardita_b_nde.html
8. https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1steve_t_nde_7172.html
9. https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1wan_i_nde.html
10. https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1dr_ghalabi_nde.html
11. https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1peter_s_nde.html
12. https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gulden_nde.html
13. https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nolwenn_nde.html
14. https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1israel_nde.html
15. https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1doris_nde.html
16. https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1andy_b_nde.html
17. https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1maria_g_nde_4148.html
18. https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tom_m_nde.html
19. https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lillith_nde.html
20. https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1martin_nde.html
21. https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1joon_o_nde.html
22. https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1maria_sv_nde.html
23. https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mateo_nde.html
24. https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rosa_d_nde.html
25. https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1alejandra_m_nde.html
26. https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lorena_s_nde.html
27. https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1_ahly_s_nde.html
28. https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1karen_g_nde.html
29. https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1giselle_rv_nde.html
30. https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1marisol_hf_nde.html
31. https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1dario_f_nde.html
32. https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1dr_sahar_s_nde.html
Central Europe
(Germany, Netherlands, Belgium, Austria, Luxembourg, Switzerland, Czech
Republic)
79 total stories from those labelled “NDE”, with 9 hits (11.3%)
100 total stories from those labelled “NDE” or “Probable NDE”, with 10 hits (10%)
1. Hilde (Germany, Probable NDE, 1973): “I had an appendix operation during which I
suddenly floated out of my body. I could look down at the room from above, but at the
same time, I was present everywhere in the room and could see everything from all
perspectives. The doctors were standing around me working hectically on me and I didn't
understand why. I wanted to tell them that I was fine and that everything was okay. In
fact, I felt free of all irksome emotions! Then I was pulled along through a tunnel towards
a light. It was bright and simultaneously loving, friendly and full of affection. I would
gladly have continued to float along further, but a being, one that I could sense but
couldn't see, told me it was not time yet. I was given to understand that I still had some
duty to fulfill and so I must go back. That was not what I wanted, but a strong suction
pulled me back into my body through an opening in my head. I found it very disagreeable
to be back in my body. Everything was suddenly narrow and painful, and feelings of fear
and uncertainty were once again part of me.“
2. Monica P (Germany, NDE, 1982): “THERE MY EXPERIENCE STARTED. 'Oh yes,' I said to
myself, 'Everything is also terrible with me. I miss my mom so much, despite my really
nice alternative mother.' I thought 'I also have to drink something' while grabbing the
bottle of 80% straw rum. I drank first one glass; then the second glass, and eventually I
didn't notice anything anymore. Then completely drunk and without any memory about
it, not until today, I grabbed medicines in the cupboard and took between 10 and 15
different kinds. My parents came home early that day. They saw me lying there in my
own vomit and called emergency services immediately.
Suddenly, I saw myself from a corner in the emergency ward and I was fully conscious. I
could see my own body down there in this room, sitting in a bathtub. Doctors and nurses
were pumping out my stomach, calling my name and slapping my cheeks. I saw myself
from above, in the room, and found this somewhat funny. I didn't feel anything
physically, but felt unbelievably well where I was.
Suddenly, I noticed an unbelievably familiar presence with me. It was as if somebody was
behind me, covering me with a coat of love and security, to protect me. It was so
unbelievably BEAUTIFUL and RELIEVING. I communicated to this presence, without words
and only in mind, that I wanted to stay there. But this person made me understand that I
had to return anyway, as I still had a lot to do and that my time was not yet 'ripe.' I didn't
want to go back, as I felt so very secure. Everything was so free of pain and anguish. It
was unbelievable; I will NEVER forget it.”
But, what an experience! What wonderful feelings! “
3. Jutta P B (Germany, NDE, 1999): “While my Dengue fever rose I was like comatose, I saw
grotesque faces and hobgoblins who wanted; summon me to dance so they could take
away the air to breath.
I fled into a dark tunnel to hide which suddenly opened in front of me. I went further
because I saw light in the distance. The nearer I came to the light, I felt lighter, calmer,
and happier - and somehow snug.
The Light got brighter, my body felt slight and an overwhelming feeling of freedom and
floating passed through me, it was miraculous and I can't forget it. It was a garden made
of light.
I didn't see a silhouette of people, but I saw light moving. I could imagine them as angels
and before I went to step in, a soft voice talked to me that my time was not up and my
soul wanted to finish its life-task. A door shut and I was surrounded in darkness again. I
was still in this tunnel, but I went out calmed down.”
4. Jessica W (Germany, NDE, year unknown): “At the age of sixteen I had an experience
which on the one hand I thought was beautiful but on the other hand it was rather
frightening. It happened in the middle of the night, I had a cold and it became difficult for
me to breathe because of my asthma. I was tossing, turning, and gasping for breath.
Suddenly I realized that I separated from my body hovering towards a sparkling bright
light. I remember that I once more looked down at my lifeless body and then opted for
the light. I felt that it was an endless tunnel.
It was comfortably warm there and I knew I would be all right. I saw my grandma holding
out her hand towards me. It was rather strange that my vision of her was blurred and not
as clear as I expected it to be.
I talked to my grandma about my mum and my granny said that I would have to take care
of my mum, since her boyfriend would be up to no good and that he would become an
alcoholic.
Up there I felt great so that I didn't want to leave it. I told my granny that I wanted to stay
with her but my granny told me that that was not possible, it would not be my time and
as she said that I was pulled back into my body. When I came back to life I felt as
miserable as at the time before I left my body.”
5. Marten M (Belgium, NDE, 2000): “Two doctors and two paramedics were working on me.
I also saw some police officers. I saw all those people in my apartment, which is very
small (4m by 4m). The irony was that after years of social isolation, I never had any
visitors, that space was now overcrowded.
I saw what they did and heard what was said which wasn’t very nice, 'This is not the first
time, we know him.' I am manic-depressive but I can assure you that my experience had
nothing to do with that. I told all those present, 'I’m fine. You don’t have to do anything.'
They didn’t listen. I called, 'Hello I’m over here.' I saw everything as if I was floating near
the ceiling. I became angry and called, 'Hello I’m OK doesn’t anyone hear me?' No one
answered. I waved both arms but they didn’t see. It was creepy. I saw my own body and I
thought, 'You have served your purpose, thank you and goodbye.'
Then, all of a sudden, I was gone from my small house and I was in a dark space or
tunnel. It scared me. I felt lost and didn't know what was happening when I saw a white
light in the distance. The light was whiter than white, a light we don't have here on earth.
I felt I had to go to the light but I didn't know how. I was sucked towards it and once in
the light I saw that the colors were much more intense than here. I saw flowers, rivers,
and houses but they didn't resemble anything on earth. No, everything was perfect,
beautiful, everything radiated happiness and peace, and even the music was in perfect
harmony with everything. It was overwhelming and too much to put into words. I
realized I was no longer in pain I was free and no longer ill.
I was free from suffering mentally (psychiatrists don’t really know how much we suffer).
Then I saw someone approaching me, it was a deceased family member. He looked a lot
younger and certainly not dead. We talked and then two other, veiled, figures came
towards me. They had a human shape but I couldn’t see who they were, although they
were familiar. I was shown the film of my life. It went so fast that a few seconds there
would be maybe be a hundred years or more here. All the pieces of the puzzle fell into
place. I saw past, present and future like I was that piece of the puzzle. That is the
universe. I don’t remember what was said only that I was told that it wasn’t my time yet
and that I had to go back because my work wasn’t done. There I knew what that work
was but once I was back in my body, it was erased from my mind. I think that the two
figures I couldn’t see represent my spiritual guides. After I reluctantly said goodbye I was
back in my body.”
6. Pam A (Belgium, NDE, 1984): “After falling down, I entered into another universe, I’d
rather say into space, in a strong light. I felt wonderfully well, I was no more hungry and
I didn’t suffer any more. It seemed to me that I was able to understand everything and to
give, finally, a sense to my life. I was aware of being dead and earth seemed so far away.
I had no more any link with earth, I knew flying. I met other beings, who, as me, had no
body anymore. But anyway, I could enter them and then know what they felt and who
they were, even if I didn’t know them.
7. Anne (Netherlands, NDE, 2005): “I'm writing this in my mother's name, because her
English isn't very good. The incident happened in the year 2005. My mother was 62 years
old at that time and I was 26. I'm her daughter.
We were sitting in the living room. My mother stood up and walked to the closet to get
something off the highest shelf. She got on top of an unstable stool to stand on. While
reaching for the top shelf, she lost her balance, fell from the stool and banged her head on
the hard floor.
My uncle and I immediately rushed to help my mom. She was lying on the floor with her
eyes closed. After maybe half a minute she opened her eyes. She had a very confused
look and her eyes were glazed over. She wasn't herself, but was just a moving body, not
really present inside her body. We helped her to walk to the sofa and I was sitting next to
her on the chair the whole time until she was back to her normal self.
The next day, she told me that when she fell off the stool she suddenly found herself in an
unknown and different place. She was sitting in a vehicle that was driving or moving
forward on a road. Next to her, on her left hand side, she knew someone was sitting and
'driving' her. But for some reason, she couldn't move her head to the left; she could only
look to her right and to the front. The vehicle had no roof. She was sitting in a chair. I
asked my mom if the vehicle looked like a car, but my mother wasn't sure, it was just
something that looked like a car, but was floating or gliding over the road. Next to the
road there was a pavement with people walking in slow peace. A bit further she saw
green grass, trees and in the distance beautiful detached houses. The road the vehicle was
moving on had high trees on both sides. The people who walked on the pavement looked
all very happy. Some of them waved to my mom and smiled. She saw her deceased
husband who was my stepfather. He bent forward towards the car, smiled and waved to
her. He was there with Blondie, our golden retriever dog who died a long time ago. My
mom also saw her old fiancé from when she was young who died in a car crash. She also
saw a few other people who aren't alive any longer. There was also a woman who was an
old friend of my mother, but they lost contact years ago. My mom was surprised to see
her there because she thought the woman was still alive. But after this experience my
mom found out that the woman died a few years ago of cancer. The air had a sweet smell
of daffodils. My mom turned to the person next to her and spoke in thoughts, not words,
'A bit further down the road my deceased parents are waiting for me.' At that moment,
someone said, 'Not yet.'”
8. Anna W (Netherlands, NDE, 2009): “After my hysterectomy surgery, I was discharged
from the hospital to home. However, six days later, I was back in the hospital again
because of severe pain and a high fever. The admission exam revealed that my blood was
infected and that I had peritonitis. A scan showed I had internal bleeding in two places.
The infection rate had gone way up to 327CRP. [CRP is the measure of a pain-reactive
protein in the blood that rises with inflammation.] The pain was incredible. I needed
emergency surgery to drain and wash the infected areas inside my abdomen. Fifteen
minutes before I was taken to the operating theater, I was lying in my hospital bed
feeling overwhelmed with pain.
Suddenly my awareness changed and the room became filled with a bright light. There
before me were my late grandmother and late mother-in-law floating toward me! They
came to rest on either side of my bed. My grandmother was to the left of me and my
mother-in-law to my right. Only my mother-in-law spoke. She said it wasn't my time to
come with them but that they were here to help me with my pain. So, they 'pulled' me
out of my body and I floated straight upward a short distance where I stopped and
remained hovering there. As soon as I left my body, everything was tranquil and I felt no
more pain.
My mother-in-law pointed to a whitish translucent cord attached at one end to the
floating 'me', and at the other end to my body on the bed. She instructed me to be
careful not to break that cord as I was going to need it to get back into my body. From
above, I could clearly see my husband and the doctors and nurses gathered around my
bed. The room was filled with a beautiful bright white light. Looking through this white
light, I could see vivid colors, as well as the ordinary objects in the room. I remained
floating serenely above my body until I was taken to the operating theater. Once there,
my mother-in-law and grandmother vanished.
In their place, beside my bed, appeared my late grandfather clad in a white coat. He had
been a general practitioner/doctor during his life. However, I had never met him as he
had died when I was seven years old! He spoke to me about the details of my medical
issues and pointed out, in terms of centimeters, exactly where in my abdomen the three
main internal infections were located. He specified this medical information in Latin. I
don't speak Latin but I understood him. Then he too disappeared. I immediately re-
entered my body and so I was able to repeat everything my grandfather had just told me
while the surgeon wrote down detailed notes and my husband listened.”
9. Danielle V (Netherlands, NDE, 2000): “Like I said I was being strangled by someone, it
was a man and I tried to resist with all my strength. I soon found out I wasn't strong
enough.
I then saw my life flash before my eyes, I also saw my parents and my children in the
future and their sorrow. At that same moment or maybe one second later, I felt myself
leaving my body. I found I was in a tube and I was sucked towards the light. It was a very
liberating feeling; there was an ultimate feeling of love and freedom but most of all no
fear and no pain. Before I came to the light, I stopped and saw my deceased grandfather
peek over the edge. I went further because I wanted to go to the light. I wanted to be
'there' but my grandfather became very angry, he looked at me very angrily and shouted,
'It's not your time yet, you have to go back.'
I don't know if the person strangling me felt this or if my grandpa really helped me with
certain powers. But the one strangling me let go of my throat at that very moment and I
returned to my body.”
Monika (Czech Republic, NDE, 1999): “After the second clinical death, it was rather “a fleeting
flight through the tunnel.” The light and the other peculiarities, such as the incorporeal body and
the telepathic ability, were the same but I ended up in the courtyard of some French castle in the
period around the 15th century and waiting for me a was girl. She stood under a window and
pointed to a window from which she had jumped because of a unhappy love affair and killed
herself. And she added, “Don’t you do it, it is still not your time." And I flew back, once again. I
even spoke with the girl telepathically in a fluent language that I do not understand.
The events after the experience were sad. I terribly wanted to return “home” but it did not
happen. Doctors in the intensive care unit were thrilled and happy because they could not
comprehend that my brain was not damaged. Afterwards, I headed to the psychiatry department.
I was afraid to speak about my experience at all because I did not want to receive some sort of
“extra’ medication.” I first spoke of my experience after a few years with my younger sister and I
tried to find other explanations than that of ending up in heaven. I think that I could have easily
ended up in some space-time continuum. By this I do not want to put down religion, I have
studied them and a few in some detail, including the Egyptian and Tibetan books of the dead.
Quite the contrary, when I strip away the different names for god, the main thing that religion
wants to tell us in essence is the same. And it is not strange at all that god, a piece of ourselves,
we find in a different dimension. “
