{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/NDERF\/Research\/consc_reality_dan.htm","mytitle":"A New View of Consciousness and Reality  by Daniel Neiman","mylang":"de"}
          	A New View of Consciousness and Reality  by Daniel Neiman                    	            		

          A New View of Consciousness and Reality&nbsp;    </b></font></span>   
  Home Page  Current NDEs  Share NDE</span>     	</tr>        A New View of Consciousness and   Reality
  by Daniel Neiman

&nbsp;  Introduction

Today's materialistic science is dominated by the view that   everything we see today originated in the Big Bang, when space and time came   into existence and the laws of the universe were set. According to mainstream   scientists, there was no guiding intelligence behind this event. The laws of   nature that just so happen to allow for the formation of stars, galaxies,   planets, and ultimately life are all accidental properties forged during the Big   Bang billions of years ago. All matter and energy by nature is unconscious and   unintelligent.

Two views about life and consciousness arise from this line   of thinking. The first is that all life evolved more or less by accident, via   random interaction of chemicals and biological materials and selection for   survival. The other is that consciousness is not fundamental to reality, but a   secondary phenomenon arising from a certain complexity of brain and nervous   system function. Therefore, our seemingly intelligent minds that we operate with   on a daily basis are ultimately the result of a plethora of unconscious,   unintelligent processes in the brain.

The first view that life arose and evolved through random   mutation and selection is being undermined today by the specified complexity of   information contained within DNA, as well as the intricate, coherent, and   interdependent inner workings that we now find within all living cells. The   second view that consciousness arises from, or is reducible to, brain function   is being undermined by the evidence from Near-Death Experiences that   consciousness can still function, and indeed shows enhanced functioning, when   brain activity is miniscule or absent altogether. I will start by exploring   these new findings and the conclusions they point to, while showing how both   lines of inquiry lead to the same expanded view of reality, namely that   intelligent consciousness underpins the material world.

Next, I will show how the underlying Source Consciousness   of the universe is experienced by people in various situations, including   spontaneously, during UFO abductions, Near Death Experiences (NDE's), and during   usage of psychedelic substances. Finally, I will go through five points of   knowledge that this new understanding of reality gives. Specifically, I will   show how the various areas of paranormal research converge upon the same   knowledge concerning life and reality.

It is due time to replace the current understanding of life   and reality as touted by today's mainstream academia. We must come to a new,   truer understanding of reality. We need a view that can incorporate the findings   from modern day paranormal research. This is pertinent for the advancement of   knowledge and the continuing progression of society, not just scientifically but   also spiritually.  Evolution and Consciousness

Two of the leading proponents of the development of life   being guided by an intelligence are biology professor Michael J. Behe and   philosopher of science Stephen C. Meyer. Stephen Meyer explores the structure   and function of DNA in his magnum opus, Signature in the Cell. In this   book, Meyer explains how DNA codes for proteins and why this process cannot be   imitated by random mutation and natural selection. I will now briefly describe   these findings.

There are four DNA bases, represented by the letters A, C,   T, and G, which are arranged into 3-letter combinations (essentially 3-letter   words), called codons. Each codon, or 3-letter word, represents one of twenty   different amino acids that link up in specified sequences to build proteins.   Also, there are codons that specify when to start or stop the building of a   protein.1 Amino acids form proteins by linking together one at a   time, based on the DNA instructions, and then folding into 3-dimensional   structures. The specific 3-dimensional structure of the protein determines its   precise function.2

You can think of this process as translating one language   into another. You start with the language of DNA, which consists of 3-letter   codes. Each of these 3-letter codes translates into one of twenty possible amino   acids. During protein synthesis, amino acids are linked together in discrete   chains hundreds of units long. The precise arrangement of these amino acids in   the chain is crucial to the development of the protein. If the amino acids are   not arranged in the proper order, a functional protein will not be produced.   Therefore, if the codons are not arranged properly in the DNA, then the amino   acids will not link up properly, and a functional protein will never be made.

Even a simple protein requires a chain of 100+ amino acids.   Again, these amino acids must be arranged in a specific order to   code for a functional protein because most combinations of amino acids will not   fold into a stable functional protein at all. Remember that DNA encodes for one   amino acid at a time with 3-letter 'words', or specific sequences of bases.   Therefore, to encode for a simple protein requires that 300+ DNA bases be   arranged in a specific order so that the amino acids link up in a proper   sequence to produce a functional protein. Then, add to this the correct words,   or codons, for starting and stopping the protein making sequence. These codes   must be at the beginning and end of the coding region to initiate and end   protein production respectively. This is akin to producing a 100 word paragraph   of coherent text with a capital letter to start the paragraph and a period at   the end. To produce such a paragraph by random processes is highly unlikely.   Just imagine a monkey given a typewriter and blindly typing letters at random to   try and produce an entire paragraph of coherent meaningful text.

To stress this point once more, consider that 'though   proteins tolerate a range of possible amino acids at some sites, functional   proteins are still extremely rare within the whole set of possible amino-acid   sequences'.3 In other words, if you link amino acids together at   random you will be hard pressed to create a functional protein, just as you   would be hard pressed to create a paragraph of meaningful English text by way of   randomly placed letters. Therefore, if the DNA bases were arranged randomly,   they may exhibit codons (3-letter words) for specifying amino acids to link   together to form a protein, but these amino acids would most likely link   together in such a way as not to produce a functional protein. In fact, the   chances of producing any functional protein of 150-amino-acids by combining   those amino acids by chance is 1 in 1074.4 Now take into   consideration the fact that many proteins require far more amino acids than 150.5   As the number of amino acids in a protein rises, the chances of producing one by   linking amino acids by chance just gets worse. Finally, one has to take into   consideration the start and stop codons that must be in the proper place to   start and stop the sequencing of amino acids for protein production. So, just as   there is a low probability of combining English letters into a meaningful   sequence, especially one that's at least 150 words (or letters), in length, by   pure chance and random processes, it is similarly implausible to suggest that   DNA bases could be randomly arranged to create functional proteins.&nbsp;

Meyer refers to the information encoded in DNA with the   term 'specified information.' This means that it is complex, as the information   does not follow a repeating pattern, and specified, meaning that a specific   arrangement of bases performs a specific function.6 This is the kind   of information found in a language or computer code, whereby the specific   arrangement of parts determines its meaning or function and a random arrangement   confers nothing. Basically what's happening when you arrange DNA bases properly   to code for a functional 3-dimensional protein is that you're hitting a target   sequence out of a vast space of possible arrangements of those bases.7   That target sequence does not get hit by 'chance', especially not over and over   again. Meyer further asserts that specified information is only known to be   caused by intelligent agents.8 Computer code and language are just   two examples, whereby a specific arrangement of 0's and 1's in computer code and   letters and punctuation in language confer meaning. However a random arrangement   of these constituents would only produce non-functional or non-meaningful   gibberish.

Now, the argument has been put forth, most notably by   Richard Dawkins, that you could start with just one protein and then modify it   little by little, or amino acid by amino acid, until it turns into another   protein quite different from the original.9 This would be akin to   modifying my last sentence one letter at a time until it turned into a   completely different coherent and meaningful sentence. You may be able to   anticipate the problem already. To change the sentence letter by letter, or even   two letters at a time, would take that sentence through a whole host of   unmeaningful sequences until it finally arrived at the new meaningful sentence,   whatever that may be. The problem turns out to be even worse for proteins. This   is because if you change too many of the amino acids in a protein, it will not   only degrade function, but the amino-acid sequence that constitutes the protein   will cease to fold into a 3-dimensional shape altogether. Therefore, one protein   cannot morph into another protein with a completely novel function. If you start   changing the amino acid sequence of a protein, function quickly degrades, and   the process soon leads to amino acid sequences that fail to fold into a stable   structure at all.10&nbsp; Dawkins, however, imagines that proteins   can change their shape little by little to successively approximate a completely   different shape necessary to perform a completely different function. As stated   above, this is of course, a purely imaginary line of reasoning. It does not   reflect reality. Proteins have specific shapes to perform specific   functions, thus emulating language or computer code. And as Meyer points out,   the only known cause of specified information is an intelligent agent.

What are we to conclude from these findings? One way out   would be to posit the existence of extraterrestrials from somewhere else in the   universe who seeded life on this planet. However, this only pushes the problem   further back to how the Aliens themselves were created. It is much more   plausible, especially with respect to the findings from NDE's which we will be   discussed later, that an intelligent consciousness underlies the material world   and is intimately involved with its creation from the atomic level on up.   Because if a consciousness is responsible for forming the DNA bases into   meaningful pairs, where would this consciousness lie? It must be woven into the   very fabric of reality. It must underlie the material world itself, able to form   and direct matter. Now, we will explore one more line of evidence that points to   an intelligence at work in nature.

In his landmark book, The Edge of Evolution,   Professor of Biology Dr. Michael Behe explores the inner workings of the cell to   conclude the impossibility of the sophisticated systems therein arising by   randomness and natural selection. As an example, Behe describes IFT   (intraflagellar transport) which constructs and maintains the cilium, which is   just one of many 'molecular machines' within the cell.

In a nutshell, IFT consists of mini railroad cars   (specialized proteins called IFT particles) that carry cargo (various proteins   needed to construct the cilium) to their proper locations and deposit the cargo   for construction of the cilium. As an analogy, think of railroad cars going up   and down a steel structure carrying building materials to make a building. The   cars have to bring many different kinds of parts, including parts needed for the   floor, parts needed for the walls, parts needed for building the windows of the   building, and parts needed to build the balconies. Actually, the cilium is far   more complex than this, requiring about 200 different kinds of building   materials, or proteins that construct the cilium.11 So, the cars, or   IFT particles, that carry the proteins must be able to bind to and carry a vast   array of different kinds of proteins. Furthermore, all of these parts have to be   deposited in just the right location'window parts must be placed at the proper   window building position, floor parts must be placed at the floor position, and   so on--and at just the right time. Another interesting fact about this process   is that the railroad cars, or IFT particles, have two different 'motor'   proteins, one for powering the cars up the cilium and a different 'motor'   protein for its trip back down the cilium. Now, here's the biochemical   explanation for how this construction works. Quoting Behe:

  'Biochemical studies show that IFT can be conceptually broken down into several   parts. The first part consists of the motor proteins that carry the IFT   particles along the interior of the cilium. The motor protein that carries the   particle toward the tip of the cilium is different from the one that carries it   back. The trip out is powered by Kinesin-II, one member of a family of kinesin   motor proteins that perform a variety of jobs in the cell . . . The trip back is   powered by a dynein motor protein . . . Exactly what causes IFT to shift from   kinesin-powered transport to dynein transport at the tip of the cilium remains   unknown. The second part of IFT is called the IFT particle. It's the container   that grabs hold of the correct proteins to be carried in or out and releases   them at the proper point.'12

Behe further elucidates that 'the IFT particle consists of   sixteen separate proteins that bind together in one aggregate.'13   This 16-protein complex can be separated into two protein-complexes, one   containing six proteins and the other ten proteins. Each of these structures   'contain substructures that are known to be particularly good at binding diverse   proteins'exactly what you need to transport the many kinds of protein cargo that   travel by IFT along the cilium.'14 Indeed, as mentioned before, the   cilium which IFT constructs is made of about 200 different kinds of proteins.   Therefore, the IFT particle is a specifically designed protein for its job. It   is designed to be able to bind to and carry a variety of different proteins.&nbsp;

This system of construction machinery also boasts not one,   but two, motor proteins that are designed to carry the IFT particle up and down   the interior of the cilium. If that's not enough, when building this system,   there is some sensing mechanism that senses the amount of material that the   cilium needs, evidenced by the fact that 'after construction is completed the   trains keep coming at about the same rate, but now some of the cars are empty.'15

You can imagine the sophisticated control mechanisms that   must go into the construction project, with genes controlling how much of each   protein to build and when to build them, how many IFT particles to send with   loads of protein, and when to cut production. Furthermore, all of the proteins   used in construction require acute specification. The IFT particles must be   precisely engineered to be able to bind to all of the differently shaped   proteins that make up the cilium, the motor proteins must be precisely   engineered to function as motors to move the IFT particles up and down the   length of the cilium, and each protein that goes into the actual building of the   cilium requires precise engineering to fit with all of the other parts and   create a functional cilium. As you can tell, this process is integrated,   complex, and coherent. Furthermore, DNA provides the instruction manual for   building the entire structure, including instructions for building the molecular   machines used to construct the edifice, instructions for building each of the   around 200 proteins that compose the building blocks of the structure, and   control instructions for coordinating the entire process.

It should be blatantly obvious by now that an intelligence   is behind this process. You don't randomly throw together a skyscraper. It takes   careful planning; blueprints of the building must be drawn up, resources   gathered together at the building site, all of the construction workers given   specific assignments, and foremen and supervisors to manage the entire process.   A cellular machine requires just as much. In the case of the cilium, DNA   contains the blueprints for making the building, as well as the information   needed to coordinate the project, make the IFT particles (construction workers)   to do the work, and make all the building materials. The cell is miraculous in   that it has the ability to make both the work force (construction machinery) and   all of the materials needed to make up the structure (essentially many different   kinds of proteins). Stephen Meyer's concept of specified information is also   relevant here. In IFT, we have a specific arrangement of parts that perform a   specific function. This is evident in the building process and in the completed   structure. Again, this requires an intelligence to arrange the parts into a   functional pattern.

It is useless to invoke a Darwinian, stepwise scenario, for   this process. That is because the process is so integrated. Without an IFT   particle, there could be no cilium. Without the control instructions for   coordinating the construction project you would have a mess of unregulated IFT   particles, carrying unregulated proteins, at unregulated times. The project   would never be able to build a coherent machine. And if you are missing many of   the around 200 proteins needed for building the cilium, well, you can't build   it. Complex integration is the key to understanding intelligent design. Gradual   evolution doesn't work because without any one of the parts, the others couldn't   function. Therefore, a bottom-up approach doesn't work. Instead, a top-down   approach whereby the end product (cilium) is thought up first, or envisioned in   the mental realm, then the many details of how to build that product are worked   out in succession, and finally the whole system is implemented at once.   Intelligent agents do this all the time. We think of a new idea, say to build   the first automobile. First, we must think about what function our new structure   is to have. In our example of the automobile, the function is to move people and   objects quickly from one place to another via roads. Then, we should consider   what parts are needed and how they will connect to perform the desired function.   For instance, a car would need wheels that turn, a motor to power the car, a   steering wheel to steer the car, and so on' We would have to figure out how to   connect all of these parts to produce a functional automobile. Once we have the   entire plan with all the parts and how to connect them in our minds (the mental   realm), we can then begin to manufacture and arrange the material constituents   to conform to our mental image and create the world's first automobile. So, we   start with figuring out what function we want a new machine to perform. Then we   have to think of a design that will enable that function to be performed. The   design requires not only the parts that will be used, but how those parts will   connect. Once we have this mental image, we can go to work building our new   structure.

In essence, we take ideas from a mental, non-material   realm, and then manifest those ideas in the material realm. This is simply an   imitation of what a greater intelligent consciousness does to create the   machinery that sustains life. How else are we to explain intelligent workings at   the cellular level without an intelligence that penetrates into the deepest   aspects of the material world? And where else do we find intelligence than in   the workings of conscious agents? Different types of cells require different   functions, which require different kinds of protein machinery, which in turn   requires the guidance of an intelligence to form. From DNA on up, life is   intricately designed.

So, all of creation is first envisioned in the mental   realm. To implement these creations in the material realm requires a conscious   intelligent entity to arrange and organize matter in conformance with the   desired function and design. For life to show evidence of intelligent design,   consciousness must underlie material process and have the ability to form and   manipulate the material world. To take a line from Physicist David Bohm, it   forms and in-forms the material world.16 It is the basis and mover of   all energy in the universe. This underlying consciousness not only forms all of   the matter in the universe, it also provides the information to organize matter   into functional systems, such as DNA and living cells. As we will see after   looking at the evidence for consciousness after death, this consciousness has   its source in a realm outside of our known concepts of space and time. It is a   realm of infinite energy in a non-local space. Our consciousness is in fact   identical to this One Source Consciousness. Now we turn to the unassailable   evidence for life after death.   Life After Death:&nbsp; The Verdict Is In

The existence of intelligence in a universe supposedly   constructed from entirely unconscious and unintelligent energy presents a major   philosophical problem from the outset. I have often wondered at the illogicality   of how you get intelligence from non-intelligence. It seems like a conundrum   that is hard to get around. However, the story goes that through a certain   complex composition of matter, this is indeed possible. I never bought this   idea. No matter how much unintelligent matter you throw together, intelligence   should not spontaneously arise. In any event, we all experience ourselves as   intelligent agents with the ability to think and act in the world purposively.   Where does this intelligence, this consciousness, come from? That is the central   question. Is it indeed, as science postulates, a temporary manifestation of the   complex workings of a number of unintelligent parts (the brain and nervous   system)? Or does it come from some other realm or dimension and simply manifest   for a time in the material realm before going back to this other dimension?

Extraordinary evidence from the study of Near-Death   Experiences points to the latter conclusion. How do we know this? I will provide   a couple of examples to explain why Near-Death Experiences cannot be due to the   workings of the brain. The first is written about in Cardiologist Pim Van   Lommel's book Consciousness Beyond Life. The story is of Pam Reynolds,   who needed an operation on an aneurysm in one of the cerebral arteries close to   the brain stem. Due to the positioning of the aneurysm, a rare and risky medical   procedure was required that entailed lowering her body temperature to about 50   degrees Fahrenheit during the operation and draining all the blood from her   head. The electrical activity in her cerebral cortex and brain stem were   constantly measured during this time and once she had been cooled down   sufficiently all activity in these areas was found to be absent. Nevertheless,   she reports popping out of the top of her head and being able to see and hear   what was going on in the operating room during the operation. While out of body   she observed the instrument used to open her skull, which did not conform to her   prior expectations. Specifically, she reports 'I remember the instrument in his   hand; it looked like the handle of my electric toothbrush. I had assumed that   they were going to open the skull with a saw. I had heard the term saw,   but what I saw looked a lot more like a drill than a saw.&quot;17 Dr.   Michael Sabom, who investigated the case himself and got photos of the   instrument used to open her skull reports that the saw does actually look like   an electric toothbrush.18 However, this instrument did not conform to   her prior expectations of what a saw should look like, and before the operation   this instrument was covered and out of her view. However, this is not the only   accurate perception she made during the OBE. She also overheard a conversation   between the head neurosurgeon Dr. Robert Spetzler and a female cardiovascular   surgeon. In her own words, 'I distinctly remember a female voice saying:&nbsp; 'We   have a problem. Her arteries are too small.' And then a male voice:&nbsp; 'Try the   other side'.&quot;19 Commenting on this experience, Van Lommel states that   'When the cardiovascular surgeon made an incision in her right groin, she found   that Pamela's veins and arteries were too small, so she had to switch to the   left groin. The doctors had a brief exchange on this matter. Pamela heard   these remarks and repeated them word for word.'20 This, in spite   of the fact that she had loud clicking devices inserted into her ears that were   constantly emitting loud clicks to monitor her brain stem electrical activity.   This fact automatically excludes hearing the conversation through the use of her   physical ears because the loud clicks would have prevented her from making out   any conversation going on in the room. After viewing the operation for awhile   she then reports a more or less typical Near Death Experience of going to the   Light and communicating with deceased relatives before reconnecting again with   her body.

It should be noted that Pam's NDE began while she was under   general anesthesia, before her body had been cooled down and all electrical   activity in her brain had ceased. Although she wasn't clinically dead at the   start of her OBE, the fact that she was under anesthesia, had her eyes taped   shut, and had loud clicks emitting in each ear should have ruled out perception   by normal sensory means. In fact, she shouldn't have been conscious at all. Her   experience lasted until she saw her body jump, which is when she again entered   her body again. This was after the operation had ended and electric shock had   been administered to restart her heart. So, although her experience started   before cool down of her body began, it persisted until after the operation was   over. So a significant part of her NDE, where she entered the light and spoke   with deceased relatives, occurred during a period of time when her brain was   nonfunctional. &nbsp;

Without any electrical activity in her brain, how could she   experience these things? The simplest and most plausible explanation is that   consciousness does not depend on the brain to exist or experience. The brain   begins to resemble more of a tool that consciousness uses to manifest in the   physical world, but not the producer of that consciousness.

Remarkably, there is another case on record of this same   kind of operation where the patient experienced consciousness during a period of   lack of brain function. This account comes from the book The Scalpel and the   Soul by neurosurgeon Allan J. Hamilton. This case involves a   thirty-four-year-old woman, again suffering from an aneurysm near the brain stem   known as a basilar aneurysm. Again, her temperature had to be lowered, 'to make   her core temperature cold enough to stop her heart so all blood flow would   cease.&quot;21 At that time, all brain wave activity as measured by an EEG   would stop. While the operation was winding down and they were about to start   warming her body back up, several documented conversations were recorded that   the patient somehow heard and reported after the experience, even though all   electrical activity was absent as measured by an EEG. After the patient had   fully awoken from all of the anesthetic, she was greeted by her team of doctors.   Specifically she said that she thought she heard someone say 'thar she blows,'   and she recalled 'A one-and-a-half-carat yellow diamond from Johnston Fellows.   Oh. . . and Morton's restaurant where someone fell into a wine case.&quot;22   The doctors present during her operation:

'all knew that this woman's brain had been dead'without   discernible electrical activity whatsoever. This meant that no brain cells were   active, working, firing, or emitting electrical signals. Yet somehow the patient   managed to recall the conversation in the operating room while her EEG was flat.   In other words, while she was, for all intents and purposes, clinically   dead'with no ability for her brain to function'she somehow managed to make or   'encode' specific memories of that conversation in the OR. And this was no hazy   recollection. The patient was reproducing practically word for word what had   been said. Right down to the jewelry store and the waiter stumbling. No, she   clearly recalled what had been said. There was no doubt about that.&quot;23

After further investigation it was established that she   could accurately report many more details than just those mentioned above,   including exactly where the heart-lung bypass machine was located in the room   (which hadn't been there until after she was anesthetized), and what the people   in the room looked like.24 Unlike Pamela, however, she did not report   a deep Near Death Experience of going to another dimension or encountering   beings of light. Nevertheless, this case along with Pamela's case strongly   suggests that consciousness can exist independent of a functioning brain.&nbsp; &nbsp;  A New Way of Envisioning Consciousness and the Brain

Based on quantum theory, Cardiologist Pim Van Lommel, in   his landmark book on Near-Death Experiences Consciousness Beyond Life,   posits that consciousness actually exists in a non-local space where time and   distance play no role. Quantum theory suggests that all matter can exist as   either a wave of spread out energy or as a discrete particle located in space   and time. Furthermore, consciousness seems to play a decisive role in the   transition from a wave of spread out energy to its collapse into a discrete   particle located in time and space. For instance, an electron around the nucleus   exists as a wave of probability until it is observed, whereby the numerous   possibilities collapse and the electron is concentrated in a particular spot for   everyone to see.25 Underlying reality, therefore, is a sea of   infinite energy where all possibilities exist. If we want to describe   consciousness, we could think of it as an infinite sea of light where everything   is connected non-locally. The light acts like a unified field, whereby every   part of the field is connected to every other part without the need for energy   transfer. In the words of Van Lommel,

'nonlocal space could also be called the absolute   vacuum:&nbsp; it lacks structure, has no time, and is an empty space in which quarks   (elementary particles and fundamental constituents of matter), electrons,   gravity, and electricity have all become one and as such do not exist. This   space forms the foundation for an infinite number of possibilities.'26

I like to think of it as an infinite field of intelligent   light that holds all knowledge, or information, encoded in wave functions. The   material world, which we are so familiar with, can be seen as the collapse of   these wave functions into a particular possibility. In Van Lommel's words,

'the physical aspect of our consciousness in the   material world, which we experience as waking consciousness and which can be   compared to the particle aspect of light, stems from the wave aspect of the   'complete' and 'endless' consciousness created by collapse of the wave function   in nonlocal space.'27

In essence, an infinite consciousness underlies and forms   the basis for our material world. This consciousness is in direct control of all   energy manifest in the material realm because it is the source of that energy.   It literally forms the material world by creating information, or specific   patterns of energy, from an infinite number of possibilities of that energy   configuration. The material world is but one manifestation of this consciousness   and there is evidence that there are many more dimensions created by this   consciousness. This process of creation is an ongoing and never ending process.

The real clincher in all of this is that our   consciousnesses are essentially identical to this one consciousness, which can   be labeled Source Consciousness. The brain, then, operates as a receiver of an   aspect of this Source Consciousness into the material dimension of space and   time. In Van Lommel's words,

'The brain and the body merely function as a relay   station receiving part of the overall consciousness and part of our memories in   our waking consciousness in the form of measurable and constantly changing   electromagnetic fields.'28

I propose that your waking consciousness is essentially the   light from Source Consciousness manifesting through the brain and body to   experience the energy patterns of the brain and body. However that energy is not   just experienced by consciousness, but in-formed by consciousness. In other   words, consciousness is in control of how that energy is configured.   Consciousness is the creator of information. I believe the electro-chemical   processes in the brain operate much the same way as DNA or language, on the idea   of specified information which consciousness provides. Different types of energy   produce different experiences. The electro-chemical energy produced by the brain   to create an image is different from the electro-chemical energy produced by the   brain to create an emotion. Furthermore, the specific pattern of energy   determines the specific image or emotion that is experienced. To experience a   picture of the sun in your mind requires the 'image energy' to be arranged in a   specific pattern that is different from the specific pattern of 'image energy'   required to experience a different picture in the mind, say a tree.   Consciousness is the intelligence operating within the body to produce these   specified energy patterns, which you will remember equates to information. So,   consciousness underlies and collapses the energy in your brain to produce   conscious experiences of thought, emotion, and action.

Briefly, I will discuss some of the evidence that   consciousness plays a decisive role in the energy configuration of the brain.   Although the brain is influenced by the environment, consciousness can control   the brain activity through focused thought and belief. Study after study shows   that processes within our bodies can be controlled and manipulated through   conscious intention. We now know that the brain is not a fixed entity, but has a   considerable degree of plasticity.29 It is our consciousness that can   control the neuronal pathways developed in the brain.

Jeffrey Schwartz, a neuroscientist at UCLA, has   demonstrated this plasticity of the brain in Obsessive-Compulsive patients. He   figured out that the cause of their OCD was due to an overactive part of the   brain that was &quot;locked into a pattern of repetitive firing.&quot;30&nbsp; His   approach to dealing with this problem was to have patients consciously start   thinking in a different way about their compulsions. This approach included   having patients reattribute their compulsive thoughts with sayings such as,   &quot;It's not me:&nbsp; it's my OCD!&quot; Also, patients would reassign their thoughts. For   instance, they would substitute &quot;go work in the garden&quot; for &quot;wash hands seven   more times.&quot; These, along with a couple of other strategies, worked   significantly in 12 of 18 patients who showed &quot;significantly diminished   metabolic activity after the treatment&quot; in the areas of the brain that were   responsible for their symptoms. As Schwartz pointed out after the study:&nbsp; &quot;This   was the first study ever to show that cognitive-behavior therapy--or indeed, any   psychiatric treatment that did not rely on drugs--has the power to change faulty   brain chemistry in a well-identified brain circuit&quot;31

Experiments have also shown that people can control their   emotional responses to stimuli, which are designed to invoke an emotional   response, by consciously trying to detach themselves from that event. This   requires a suppression of brain activity normally associated with emotional   arousal.32 As Mario Beauregard and Denyse O'Leary say in their book  The Spiritual Brain, 'It appears that, in principle, normal humans are   not feeling robots, but are quite capable of adjusting their emotional   reactions.'33

Other studies have shown that experienced meditators can   adjust their brain waves through meditation. In one study, Buddhist monks, by   focusing their thoughts on loving compassion for all living things, were able to   shift their brain waves into a gamma-ray state and sustain that state.34   This state is characterized by heightened awareness, when the brain is in a   state of rapt attention.35 Furthermore, the monks experienced   'permanent emotional improvement, by activating the left anterior portion of the   brain'the portion most associated with joy.'36

Not only can conscious intention activate or deactivate   parts of the brain, but studies show that you can cause permanent changes in the   brain through focused attention. Neuroscientist at Massachusetts General   Hospital, Sara Lazar, scanned the brains of 20 Buddhist meditators who had long   been practicing mindfulness meditation, whereby the practitioner focuses on   heightening his/her perceptions of the senses in the current moment. She found   that &quot;those portions of the brain associated with attention, awareness of   sensation, sensory stimuli, and sensory processing were thicker in the   meditators than in the controls.&quot;37 Furthermore, she found that the   longer the practitioner had been practicing meditation, the thicker these areas   of the brain were.

In a similar vein, psychic Ingo Swann, who is well known   for his gift in remote viewing--the perception of objects or events outside of   one's sensory awareness--was tested to see what his brain activity was like when   he used his psychic power. In the experiment, run by Dr. Michael Persinger, he   was hooked up to an EEG machine and asked to identify objects in a distant room.   &quot;At the very moment that he was able to &quot;see&quot; the items remotely, his brain   showed bursts of fast activity in the high beta and gamma range...Those bursts   of activity occurred primarily over the right occipital region, the portion of   the brain relating to sight.&quot;&nbsp; Furthermore, an MRI scan showed that the large   parieto-occipital right-hemisphere lobe of his brain, which is involved in   sensory and visual input, was &quot;unusually large.&quot;38&nbsp;

Again, as with the Buddhist meditators, we see that   advanced awareness and perception are associated with gamma-ray brain activity,   which is the highest level of electromagnetic frequency. Moreover, we see that   areas of the brain can grow and strengthen their neural connections through   performing tasks that utilize those brain areas. Most importantly, it is   conscious intention that lies behind it all. Without regularly exercising the   large parieto-occipital region of his brain through the conscious intention to   see faraway places and objects, would this area of the brain be as large in   Swann as it is? It seems likely that it would not be in light of the Lazar study   which showed that Buddhist meditators had thicker than normal brain areas that   were activated during their many years of meditation. However, it could be that   Swann was simply gifted from birth with an unusually large parieto-occipital   region of his brain. Likewise, it could also be the case that people who are   drawn to become meditating monks already possess thicker portions of the brain   related to attention and sensory awareness. So, we can only tentatively conclude   that focused intention can permanently change the structure of the brain.   Further research will hopefully clarify this issue.

Now we've seen examples of people decreasing activity in   certain areas of the brain, as with OCD patients and subjects trying to control   emotional response to stimuli, and examples of people increasing activity in   certain areas of their brain, as with Buddhist meditators and Ingo Swann. This   all shows us that by consciously focusing our thoughts we can control the flow   of energy in our brains and even control the brains development; clearly,   consciousness is the director of matter.

Another category of conscious control that deserves equal   mention is belief. The focused attention of your thoughts is one thing, and   deeply held beliefs are another. Everyone knows about the placebo effect,   whereby someone's belief that they are receiving a medicine is all it takes to   make them better, regardless of whether or not they are actually receiving a   pharmaceutical drug. However, this effect takes many forms, not just in regards   to pharmaceutical medicine. One interesting study, run by University of Michigan   researchers, tested the placebo effect by injecting saltwater into the jaws of   young, healthy men. The saltwater should have created painful pressure in the   subjects jaws. However, the young men were actually told that they were   receiving pain relief. Well, the suggestion worked. &quot;They reported feeling   better. The placebo treatment reduced the brain responses in a number of brain   regions known to be implicated in the subjective experience of pain.&quot;39   In other words, the persons belief that they were receiving pain relief   triggered the brain to respond in accordance with that belief. Again, ones   consciousness is in the driver's seat.

Another study looked at the effects of &quot;sham surgery.&quot; This   is where a person goes in for surgery, is put under, given incisions to look   like something has been done, but no actual surgery takes place. The patient is   simply cut open and sewn back up again. I will quote one example from The   Spiritual Brain:

&quot;...a 2004 study compared thirty patients who received   controversial embryonic stem-cell implants for Parkinson's disease to patients   who received only a sham surgery. Those who thought they had received the stem   cells reported better quality of life a year later than those who thought they   had received the sham surgery, regardless of which surgery patients had   actually received.&quot;40 emphasis added

All of the evidence examined so far shows that   consciousness has direct control over the body. By consciously directing your   attention or thoughts, you can directly control the flow of neuronal activity in   the brain. Furthermore, an ingrained belief also instantiates brain and bodily   processes to conform to that belief.

In my view, the brain produces conscious awareness while   you are in a physical body, your conscious awareness being what you actually   experience. However, this electromagnetic energy of the brain is the result of   consciousness operating through the brain. Consciousness is the light that   sustains the body and moves the energy within it. Without conscious light, the   body dies. There can be no zombies. The brain is constantly transmitting   information about the body and outside world, as received through the senses, to   conscious awareness. The brain is also being guided by consciousness to produce   emotions, thoughts, direct awareness to certain sensations, memories, or other   areas of focus, or to move some part of the body. A conscious thought could be   said to be received by the brain, as if there were some transfer of energy.   However, in my view, consciousness can directly control brain activity. To me,   consciousness is the intelligence using the brain as a medium to operate   through. Consciousness, therefore, has no need to transfer anything to the   brain. Rather, consciousness produces a thought by directly moving the energy of   the brain to create the energy pattern associated with that thought. Since   consciousness underlies and forms the energy, it is in control of how that   energy is formed, or the pattern that it takes. Consciousness is like the ocean,   and the waves on the ocean are the energy that we see manifest in physical   reality. The wave rests on the ocean and the ocean can direct that wave and   manipulate it in any way it sees fit. So too can consciousness direct the energy   of the material world. As the basis of the material world, consciousness can   create any energy pattern it wants. Our individual aspect of consciousness can   do the same with the brain, creating specific energy patterns in the brain to   create the desired experience. Furthermore, consciousness stores all of the   information ever experienced via wave patterns. When the brain is no longer   functional (when you die), then consciousness no longer has an interface to   operate through and so separates from the body and returns to its Source.

Now, we are ready to tie all of the preceding sections   together. There is a supreme consciousness at the base of reality. It is an   intelligent consciousness containing infinite possibilities. This consciousness   contains infinite energy in potential and manifests the energy of the material   world from this infinite potential, at the same time determining the patterns   that that energy takes. It directs the material universe via what we know as the   laws of nature, which are really like habits of mind of the creator. The laws of   nature are no more than the ideas about how to run the universe in the mind of   God. DNA and cellular structures show clear evidence of intelligent design. Now,   based on this model we can easily postulate that the Consciousness underlying   reality is the intelligence that forms and directs all the energy of the   material world. It is in direct control, not through some sort of transfer of   energy, but because it manifests the energy in the first place. Instead of   random evolution, then, we may speak of intelligently directed evolution of   life. DNA was created by the consciousness underlying reality creating specific   patterns of energy, or matter. DNA, can then be said to be an intelligent   formation of cosmic consciousness, just as our consciousness forms the energy   patterns in our brain. Our individual consciousness is but a tiny aspect of this   overall consciousness. Our brain acts as an interface for this aspect of   consciousness to experience material reality.  What Happens When We Die?

We've already explored the knock down evidence that   Near-Death Experiences are not a result of some process in the brain. We may   never know the full story about what happens after we die. Indeed, if we did   that would ruin the mystery. However, the Near-Death Experience comes the   closest to illuminating at least some aspects of life after death. The problem   with NDEer's (Near-Death Experiencer's) descriptions of the afterlife from a   scientific perspective is that we can never verify their descriptions. Science   deals only with the material realm. As of now, there is no way of using   scientific instruments to explore other dimensions. These can only be explored   consciously. So, we must treat NDE's more like we treat historical science. How   do archeologists come up with an accurate depiction of ancient cities and how   life was conducted there? There are certainly no experiments they can carry out   in a laboratory to figure out what happened long ago.&nbsp; Instead they are left   with digging up artifacts and examining the written testimonies from that time.   The more artifacts they find and the more the ancient peoples wrote, the more   accurate will be the historian's depiction of that place and time. With   Near-Death Experiences, too, we have no way of accessing directly the   otherworldly realms that NDEer's describe. Instead, we must rely on the accurate   testimony of people who have consciously experienced them. Now, if a historian   only has one or two testimonies to go on, his confidence is going to be pretty   low with regard to how accurate a depiction he can create of what life was like   in an ancient city. However, suppose the historian has access to thousands of   written records from that same ancient city. Now his confidence is very high   that he can accurately describe what life was like there. Luckily, the same is   true for NDE's. We now have thousands of written records of people who've   experienced an NDE. This is in large part thanks to dedicated researchers who   have encouraged people to share their extraordinary stories. The largest   collection of such stories is currently posted online in full text by the   Near-Death Experience Research Foundation (NDERF).41&nbsp;

Every NDE is unique and the specific contents of any one   NDE are highly variable. However, with all the variability, the experiences show   many common elements. If you wish to explore some of these elements in detail, I   will refer you to my paper entitled The Near-Death &quot;Experience&quot; posted on   the NDERF website. For now I simply wish to explore the reconnection of   individual consciousness with the Source Consciousness, as this is pertinent to   our discussion.

An out-of-body experience is a typical beginning of a   Near-Death Experience. This is where someone all of a sudden experiences their   minds apart from the physical body. This is often accompanied by an enhanced   perception with exceptional abilities, including but not limited to being able   to see with a 360 degree panoramic view, the experience of being in multiple   locations at once, clearer and sharper perception, the ability to think many   streams of thought at once, and the ability to see through physical objects.42

Sometimes, but not always, an out-of-body experience is   followed by the experience of being sucked through a dark tunnel with a light at   the end. The following is a tunnel description from Dr. Jeffrey Long's book   Evidence of the Afterlife:

'I then noticed that while it was pitch-dark, it felt   as if I was in a tunnel, and all along the tunnel were doorways, but the whole   tunnel I could sense was like . . . a cave'sort of rocky, not too rocky but kind   of smooth'at least that's my impression of it. So then I am feeling a little   more afraid, like, what's going on here? It felt like I was like that for an   hour. Just there, then, I could see a pinpoint of white light in front of me in   the distance, the size of a pencil eraser head'that size. So I sense that I   start moving in that direction, . . . like something [is] pulling me there; I   don't feel as if I [am] doing it. At this point I was like floating [in an]   upright position, then going slowly toward that pinpoint of light. And then I   knew that there [were] little doorways all along this tunnel, and I felt that .   . . if I wanted to, [I could] go into any of those doorways, and I felt at the   time that if I did, I would not come back, but my attention was on the light.'43

The tunnel is very interesting, resembling a kind of   worm-hole that takes you back to the Source. Not all NDEer's who reconnect with   the source experience traveling through a tunnel. Others may see the light   superimposed over the physical environment or simply pop into a dimension of   light without any memory of a tunnel experience.44,45 The reunion   with the light is experienced as an ecstatic feeling of the most intense love   you've ever experienced and a going home. To explain this I will quote from   three of the experiences found at the Near-Death Experience Research Foundation   website.

&quot;Everything that I perceived as existing could be   experienced as the most intense light I could possibly imagine. I remember it as   being a hundred times brighter than the sun, but it was not painful to   experience. I had the sense that the light was responsible for everything I had   been a part of since leaving my Earthly body. I don't know if I can describe   this source of light as God or Jesus or any other divine being. It was far   deeper than we can describe in Earthly terms or feelings. I had an awareness of   this &quot;source&quot; that needed absolutely no means of conveyance or communication. I   had become a part of this &quot;source&quot; to the extent of oneness. Maybe I had become   part of this &quot;source&quot;.

The thing I remember the most is how distant I had   become from the physical body. When we express as humans the hope to one day be   reunited with departed friends and family there is no way to explain how we will   truly be together again. The reunion is not as Father and Son or as our dear   friend. It's as if our souls are part of an atom that had been split with all   the destructive force of the universe and then suddenly come back to form a   single atom again. This atom somehow contained every experience ever thought   felt or imagined. Nothing ever beckoned me to the light or tried to persuade me   to come or go. Our souls just know where we belong.&quot;46

&quot;I finally came to the end and floated into a place   which was overwhelmed by a radiant white light that seemed to embody all the   concepts of love. A love which was unconditional and like a mother has for a   child. It was definitely a warm joyful presence, the same one that drew me into   the tunnel in the first place. It seemed like a giant force field or energy that   radiated all the good and noble emotions known to man. [. . .] I knew in my   heart that this was God. Words can't describe my awe in this presence. It seemed   like I became part of The Light and then the Light became part of me. We were   one. I suddenly understood, without question, how interconnected we all are with   each other, God and all life forms in the Universe.&quot;47

&quot;[. . .] then became immersed in infinite peace; bliss;   ecstasy. Unimaginable love; understanding so great, powerful; so awesome as to   be humanly incomprehensible. While I was there (and only there), access was   given to knowledge; &quot;everything that ever was, is, and will be.&quot; The true nature   of the universe was suddenly clear as a bell, like a giant jigsaw puzzle. It   seemed to have a perfect order to it...in fact, it was evident that I was soon   to become part of it. I was about to join the entity which could only be   described as... God; so vast in dimension and scope only biblical words can come   close to describing. I wasn't able to retain the knowledge given; the human   brain is much too primitive and limited to house it. This intelligence requires   an entirely different dimension to exist and comprehend. Yet it is part of our   three dimensions as well...just hidden out of view of our 5 senses. Yet I retain   enough to remember the sheer awe.&quot;48

The first   experience conveys that we are all a part of this source Light like split off   atoms that, when we die, go back to the one Source. We are intelligent light   beings that are part of this one intelligent conscious light source. The second   experience also shows that we are all connected through this one Light.   Furthermore, this light is experienced as Love.

The last   experience shows us that the Light contains all knowledge. Everything in   existence is connected to the Source non-locally. Non-local means that the   information cannot be localized; it is everywhere. In fact, it is everywhere and   nowhere because it cannot be localized. Each piece of information is accessible   from anywhere in the field of consciousness. Everything in the field of   consciousness is non-local. Since all of existence is non-locally connected to   Source Consciousness, when we go back to Source Consciousness we have access to   all knowledge.

Source   Consciousness is the source of all possibilities, containing an infinite amount   of energy. It is the basis and source for our consciousness and the material   world. As Astrophysicist Bernard Haisch writes in his book, The God Theory,  creation is a process of subtraction from infinite potential. He compares   the creation of the material world to the creation of movies from a projector.   From the pure white light of the projector literally any image can be created.   In his book, he writes:

&quot;All you have to do to project the picture you want is   put in the slide that subtracts the proper colors in the proper places. The   white light is thus the source of infinite possibility, and you create the   desired image by intelligent subtraction, causing the real to emerge from the   possible. By limiting the infinitely possible, you create the finitely real. 
  &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 
  Let's take this optical metaphor one step further. The white light of a   projector can convey more than just a static image. Project a series of images   in rapid succession and you create motion. Although, on one level, that motion   consists of a series of still shots, when those still shots are projected   rapidly enough, the sum becomes greater than its parts. The resulting 'motion   picture' is more than just the sum of the images created out of the white light.   People and actions and even emotions are made manifest by acting upon the   formless white light in just the proper way, in just the right sequence. A   replica of our real world can thus be created out of the unlimited potential of   the white light through a process of intelligent subtraction carried out in   space and time. A virtual reality is thus created out of formless possibility.   In fact, motion pictures are a concrete example of how a filter, the film, by   selectively subtracting from a formless potential, can generate a virtual   reality.&quot;49

So, as discussed before, the Source light exists in a   non-local space containing all possibilities. This light creates the material   realm with all of its laws as an actualization of its potential. In my mind it's   very similar to the collapse of the wave function in physics. All 'solid' matter   can be expressed as a wave function of spread out energy. What we see as the   material world is the collapse of this wave function into one possibility, the   possibility that we experience. Quoting from the book Quantum Enigma by   Bruce Rosenblum and Fred Kuttner:

&quot;There is no atom in addition to the wavefunction of   the atom. If someone happened to see the atom at a particular spot, that look   would collapse the spread out wavefunction of the atom to be concentrated at   that particular spot for everyone . . . Accordingly, before a look collapses a   widely spread-out wavefunction to the particular place where the atom is found,   the atom did not exist there prior to the look. the look brought about the   atom's existence at that particular place--for everyone.&quot;50 &nbsp;

Implying, that from a realm of infinite possibilities,   consciousness brings the material world into existence. This world is a   conscious projection&nbsp; of the Source Light created by subtraction of infinite   possibilities into the world of space and time that we experience. It is   constantly being projected and guided by this underlying intelligence. We, as   part of this intelligence, are co-creators of reality.

The experience of the Source Light is not just an   experience NDEer's have. This experience of reunion with the source has also   been described in UFO literature, in transpersonal experiences, mysticism, and   as spontaneous occurrences in everyday life. I will quote here from a variety of   different sources to show the connections all of these experiences share. First   from Psychiatrist and consciousness explorer Stanislav Grof, who shares a   description of his encounter with the Source after smoking 5-MeO-DMT. This is   apparently one of those substances that when the brain is flooded with it,   somehow it can severe the connection between consciousness and the brain and   send consciousness straight back to its Source. Shortly after taking a 2 or 3   hits from the pipe he describes:

&quot;My only reality was a mass of radiant swirling energy   of immense proportions that seemed to contain all existence in a condensed and   entirely abstract form. I became Consciousness facing the Absolute. It had the   brightness of myriad suns, yet it was not on the same continuum with any light I   knew from everyday life. It seemed to be pure consciousness, intelligence, and   creative energy transcending all polarities. It was infinite and finite, divine   and demonic, terrifying and ecstatic, creative and destructive--all that and   much more. I had no concept, no categories for what I was witnessing. I could   not maintain a sense of separate existence in the face of such a force. My   ordinary identity was shattered and dissolved; I became one with the Source.&quot;51

The ineffability of the experience is quite evident from   Grof's account. Nonetheless, we see definite parallels to the Source experienced   by NDEer's. For one, he describes it as being extremely bright, although of an   unworldly sort of brightness. Also, it contains all of existence in an abstract   (unmanifest) form. And he too becomes fused with this Source. The next account   of an encounter with the Source is described in Robert Hamilton's fascinating   book, Caduceus. It is an experience that happened to him when he was   simply sitting down contemplating some things he had read that day. The onset of   the experience is sudden. In his own words:

&quot;Then, all of a sudden, I was seized, as though by some   invisible and intangible force. It was an extraordinary feeling, utterly unique   and totally different from any sensation that I had felt ever before. To add to   the barrage of the senses came with the experience a constant whirring sound,   which would not abate and remains with me today. This onset of sudden energy   seemed to flood the whole of my person and the dominant impression, and what was   so amazing and beautiful, although thoroughly confusing at the time, was the   unmistakable sensation of light. The whole experience seemed to create an   incredible luminescence which is almost impossible to describe as it was nothing   like how one would usually envisage light, whether from the light of the sun or   from an electricity bulb . . . It seemed that what now 'constituted me' was   total consciousness; the focus of my being was entirely of the 'soul', for want   of a better description. It was as if the entire experience represented moments   of revelation where 'everything' was made known and comprehended, although in a   rather indefinable way. Yet, despite the bewilderment and confusion, I felt the   presence of an absolute and profound sense of peace which was beyond anything I   had ever known previously. And then, quite suddenly, it ended, just as suddenly   as it had begun, with a discernible 'return' of my normal self and my normal   thoughts.&quot;52

Again, we have the experience of an unworldly luminescent   light where we are encompassed in &quot;total consciousness&quot; which allows access to   all knowledge and is accompanied by an experience of deep love and peace.

The last account of an encounter with Source Consciousness   comes from the important work of Ufologist Raymond Fowler, The Watchers II.   Fowler, a grandmaster of ufology, has written a number of books describing the   abductions of Betty Andreasson Luca and Bob Luca. The accounts of her abductions   were gathered through the use of hypnotic regression. In his book, The   Watchers II, Fowler gives evidence that many (not all) UFO abductions   actually take place in an out-of-body state; a point also supported by   researcher Richard L. Thompson.53,54 Therefore, the person is not   physically abducted, but their consciousness is abducted. This means that the   experience may take place in another dimension, not the material realm. The   experience I am about to quote happened while Betty was in an out-of-body state.   She is aboard the UFO with a tall Elder, who is a human like personage who works   with, and controls, the typical gray aliens.55 He's somewhat akin to   a supervisor; he's the man in charge. While aboard the UFO, he tells Betty that   he's taking her to see &quot;the One.&quot; Afterwards, the craft comes to a stop and the   door opens to reveal a place that is very bright. I pick up the experience as   she goes into the light accompanied by the Elder and a grey alien:

&quot;Oh, we're running toward the light now. Oh-h-h! [breathless]   I can see . . . the Elder is changing to a white light being and . . . the grey   is changing into a light blue one [blows out air] as we're running closer   to the light. Oh, I'm starting to change into a golden-colored light! Oh, this   is beautiful! Oh-h-h. [long sigh, exhales, sighs again] Oh, this is   wonderful, wonderful, wonderful. Oh, there is such love. [Betty is in pure   unadulterated ecstasy.] Oh, there is such peace. [long sigh] I'm just   engulfed in light and blending into that light. Oh! [. . .] It is just   fantastically beautiful. It's just so much love, so much peace and so wonderful.   It's so wonderful. Oh, it's just wonderful. Oh. It is. It is. It is. [. . .] Oh,   this is everything, everything, everything.&quot;56

As this experience is being recalled under hypnosis, you   see her reactions as she is recounting the experience in brackets. Again, we see   a very similar experience, just described in different terms. She is engulfed by   the light and blends into it (becomes as one with it), it is full of love and   peace, and it is everything (containing all knowledge).

The more sources you have pointing to the same conclusion   makes that conclusion much stronger than if the knowledge only comes from a   single source. We've just examined the knowledge NDEer's come back with of a   Source of intelligent consciousness and a few of the other sources that are   practically identical to the accounts of this Source given by NDEer's.

However, the NDE gives us not only the knowledge of   consciousness, but a whole different way of viewing life from a spiritual   perspective. I intend to go through five points of knowledge about life and   reality that can be ascertained by studying NDE accounts. For each of these   points I will provide at least two other sources that give us the same   knowledge.

Multiple Sources - Same Knowledge  Point 1:&nbsp; The body is a shell

As said before, consciousness is light that uses the brain   as an interface to experience physical life. But after we die, this light   disconnects from the interface of the brain and is freed from the body. Here is   one NDEer's account of what happened when he died:

&quot;After that breath I went black, everything was dark. I   don't know how much time had lapsed when I was out of my body. I didn't feel or   remember leaving my body but it was like I was just there, I was standing over   my body with my spirit/soul feet and ankles in my dead bodies head, I was   looking down at myself but didn't remember being hurt, I had no idea I was dead   or injured. I was now a translucent shadow with hands, feet, a whole body but it   was made of energy, power, and strength. I looked at my right arm and made a   fist. I looked at my left arm and made a fist. I felt so strong and powerful. I   was energy.&quot;57

His body of light/energy is no longer a part of the   physical body. It is now free to move about without any restrictions. Here is   one more account of an OBE during a NDE:

&quot;I went from lying on the gurney to floating in the air   above the doctors. I watched as they pulled out my intestines, carefully laying   them to the side of my body, and then they began racing around (I presume in an   attempt to revive me). During this, I began rising, and all at once it seemed as   though I knew everything there was to know. It seemed as if all the mysteries of   the world were being revealed. I understood science, math, life! Simultaneously,   I could see people below me in other rooms; I saw my grandmother and great-aunt   crying outside the operating area. I saw other patients being treated in other   surgery rooms. I saw people outside the hospital. I saw so much, and I continued   to rise.&quot;58

In her out of body state, her mind is fully functional as   she is ascending upwards toward the Source. At the same time she can observe   many events happening below. People in the out-of-body state can still perceive,   think, and feel, often in a much greater way than we are accustomed to in human   life. This points to the conclusion that the human body is simply a vehicle of   consciousness. Consciousness, while in the body, experiences and directs the   dense energy of the body and brain. However, that consciousness in no way   depends on the body and brain for its existence. This knowledge of the body as a   shell is not just found in NDE reports, indeed it can be found in UFO abduction   literature, past-life regression literature, reports of spiritual encounters   with deceased loved ones, and in reports of people who have induced out of body   experiences outside of the context of a near death event.

Past-life regression is a widely used technique that is   very valuable in healing emotional or physical pains that don't respond to   conventional therapy. It is a technique that uses hypnosis to tap into people's   subconscious minds where the memories of this life and past lives are held.   Well-known in this regard is the work of Psychiatrist Brian Weiss who has   written many books on the subject. In his first book on the subject, Many   Lives, Many Masters, he describes the many past lives of his client   Catherine. Based on his many regressions with Catherine he remarks, 'her   experience of death itself was so uniform, so similar, every time. A   conscious part of her would leave the body around the moment of death, floating   above and then being drawn to a wonderful, energizing light.'59 Sound   familiar? This is practically identical to the reports from Near-Death   Experiencers. Psychologist Michael Newton, author of the books Journey of   Souls and Destiny of Souls, also describes how patients who are   hypnotically regressed to a past life death experience will leave their body and   float above it. His accounts concur that the out-of-body experience is followed   by a pulling towards a great Light. One of his clients reliving a death   experience reports:

'Oh, my god! I'm not really dead'am I? I mean,   my body is dead'I can see it below me'but I'm floating ' I can look down and see   my body lying flat in the hospital bed. Everyone around me thinks I'm   dead, but I'm not. I want to shout, hey, I'm not really dead! This is so   incredible ' the nurses are pulling a sheet over my head ' people I know are   crying. I'm supposed to be dead, but I'm still alive! It's strange,   because my body is absolutely dead while I'm moving around it from above. I'm   alive!'60

Another patient of his who was killed in a past life from   an arrow to the throat describes being 'ejected out the top of my head . . .   it's as if I shed my skin ' peeling a banana. I just lose my body in one   swoosh!' She describes the energy coming out of her head as 'Like a ' pinpoint   of light ' radiating.' She describes herself as weightless and her energy   appears as a transparent white. She too describes being pulled into a 'bright   whiteness.'61

We see from these accounts that whether it's an OBE   reported after a Near-Death Experience or one reported by someone reliving their   death under hypnosis, the reports match up identically. They show that   consciousness can get by just fine without a body. The body is simply the suit   of armor consciousness wears to battle through the world of physical reality.   After the battle of life is over consciousness drops the heavy armor, freeing   itself to return to the peace and comfort of Home in the Source.

Now, we will look at examples compiled by Ufologist Raymond   Fowler of OBE's that occur during the initial stages of what is known as an   alien abduction. As mentioned before, Fowler made a detailed study of Betty and   Bob Luca's abductions, the details of which were uncovered via hypnotic   regression. In his book, The Watchers, Fowler writes about a shared   abduction that the two had together. The details uncovered about this incident   under hypnosis show clear evidence that the abduction was not a physical one,   but one in which they were taken out of their bodies and brought aboard the UFO   in a non-physical state. Here is Betty's account of what happened:

&quot;Bob and I were upstairs in our bedroom. And I was in   the bathroom brushing my teeth. And he was over by the bed. And he was putting   on his socks or taking them off. He was down on the floor kneeling. And there   came a loud, [pause] dull whirring sound over the rooftop over the   bedroom. Very, very loud. And I turned to look at Bob and he glanced up at me   and suddenly, [pause] he came out of his body so that there were two   of him! And he rushed toward me and toward the bathroom and stopped abruptly at   the door.&quot;62

Later, she describes &quot;I see myself coming out of myself   too! And I'm reaching out to Bob. I'm holding on[to] him tightly.'63   As she is taken up in her OBE state she describes that her whole body becomes   light and then she enters a room where there are a number of other human forms   composed of light.64

Interestingly, the whirring sound experienced by Betty   before her abduction is a common occurrence for out-of-body explorers.   Out-of-body explorer William Buhlman, in his book The Secret of the Soul,   describes many out-of-body experiences that he has collected from ordinary   people all over the world. Often energy sensations of some sort precede the OBE.   One woman from Rochester, New York reported that: &nbsp;&quot;I would feel a whirring   sensation in my head. Next I would see my body and the bed from above.'65   Another respondent reports that: &quot;I would hear a buzzing noise--this is the only   way I can describe it. Then it felt like an electrical line with electricity   running up and down my body. I could feel myself lifting out ...'66   Now, compare the last OBE report to this abduction report which is included in   John Mack's book Passport to the Cosmos:

&quot;She was awakened by a humming sound that seemed to   surround the house and a flash of bright blue light [...] she could not move,   and her whole body began to vibrate. She recalled seeing two small thin beings   with huge heads, large eyes, and long arms and legs, one of whom was holding a   stick or rod that he pressed on the back of her ear. &quot;They're very skinny,&quot; she   remembered, and &quot;they look like they're made of light. But then underneath   there's some physicalness to them like bones. They're not bones though.&quot; Then   the light seemed to surround her. One of the beings made strong eye contact with   her (&quot;his eyes are on my eyes&quot;) and this seemed somehow to get her up out of the   bed.&quot;67

She then reports floating through her glass window and high   over the trees outside of her house. This high level of energy and associated   whirring noise, whether it occurs seemingly spontaneously as in OBE experiences   or is facilitated by an intelligent being, seems to play a key role in   separating ones consciousness from the body.

All of these reports suggest that consciousness can be   released from the physical body like the shedding of armor or peeling a banana.   The body is an outfit that we inhabit, but it is only one vehicle of conscious   expression. In the words of out-of-body explorer and researcher William Buhlman,

&nbsp;&quot;We possess and function with multiple energy bodies.   Each energy body functions as a vehicle of soul in the various dimensions of the   universe. Each subtle energy body acts as an essential transformer and conduit   of consciousness. The high frequency energy of soul is progressively stepped   down through the various energy bodies so that soul can interact in the dense   outer world of matter&quot;68

The vibratory and electrical sensations reported just   before OBE's is the transitioning of consciousness from a lower energy body (the   physical) to a higher frequency body of light. To conclude, the physical   body/brain is a conduit of consciousness, allowing consciousness to express   itself and experience in physical form. However, this body is only a shell or   container of consciousness. Consciousness in no way depends on this body to   function. Consciousness is released from the body after death and also may be   released while still alive.  Convergence number two: &nbsp;Everyone has a purpose they must fulfill before   death.

Evidence from NDE accounts, past-life regression, and LSD   Psychotherapy also suggests that the physical world is like a training ground   for our souls. A general life plan is written for us in the spiritual world of   events and circumstances that we will experience in our physical lives. Starting   with an NDE account, we will learn that our circumstances in life are chosen in   advance based on what we need to learn as souls. This woman describes the   knowledge she was given about her life during her NDE:

'I knew I got this body because my mother and father   had this little body and all their close spirits were used up.&nbsp; It was going to   be a very weak, sick female body, but it was what I needed to experience what I   (the spirit) needed in order to grow spiritually.&nbsp; It was like taking a college   class that you hated, (like calculus) but you knew you had to get a passing   grade in it in order to graduate.&nbsp; So I reluctantly agreed to take this body   that belonged to a family I had never been with before.&nbsp; I also knew that I had   been in a previous body that was a huge mean man who abused women and children.&nbsp;   I needed to experience what it felt like to be a small, sickly woman.&nbsp; I   understood why the body was dyslexic.&nbsp; Now that was a real challenge back in the   40-50s when you were humiliated and punished because you didn't know right from   left.'69

This account suggests many things, including the fact that   we choose our families and the circumstances of our life in order to learn as   souls. As a large man who abused women and children in a past life, her lesson   in this life is to learn what it's like to be a weak sickly woman who is abused.   Psychologist Michael Newton, in his book Journey of Souls, also writes   that souls choose their bodies before they're born in order to learn the lessons   they need to learn.70 His knowledge of this process stems from   hypnotically regressing people to past lives as well as in-between lives. In one   of his cases a woman remembered a past life in New England in the 1800's. At the   age of six in that life she had fallen out of a horse-drawn carriage and   subsequently run over by one of its wheels. The wheel crushed the bones of her   legs just above the knees leaving her unable to stand or walk again for the rest   of that life.71 Upon inquiry it was found that this incident had been   planned in the spirit world before she was ever born. The reason she chose to   become crippled was to gain intellectual concentration. In her own words, &quot;being   unable to walk made me read and study more. I developed my mind ... and listened   to my mind. I learned to communicate well and to write with skill because I   wasn't distracted. I was always in bed.'72 She also comments on why   she chose the family she was born into, saying that she &quot;picked a family in a   well-established, settled part of America.'73 The many libraries in   the place she chose along with the loving care of her parents allowed her to   devote herself to scholarship. So again, we get the impression that our lives   and life circumstances are planned and there is a purpose for them.

Psychiatrist and consciousness explorer Stanislav Grof also   relates a personal story in his book, When the Impossible Happens, about   the purpose he found behind one of his relationships. After immigrating from   Czechoslovakia to the United States and establishing his professional life at   Spring Grove state hospital in Baltimore, Maryland, it was time for him to meet   a mate. After many unsuccessful attempts he finally met Monica, who he had an   instant deep attraction for and connection to. He describes how he fell in love   with her quickly and they developed a passionate and unusually stormy   relationship. Furthermore, he states:

&quot;Monica's brother Wolfgang hated me from the very first   time we had met. He and Monica had an unusually intense relationship that seemed   to have distinct incestuous features. Wolfgang was violently opposed to my   relationship with Monica and treated me like a rival.'74

During this time in history LSD was being tested for its   psychotherapeutic potential. Grof, having done extensive research in this area   and realizing the powerful psychological agent that LSD is, decided to volunteer   for a high-dose LSD session at the hospital he worked at. At that time, it was   open to professionals to have these sessions for training purposes. During the   session it was his intention to unravel the complex dynamic that was going on in   his relationship with Monica. As the session progressed, he found himself in a   past life as the son of an aristocratic Egyptian family. While walking in a hall   of an ancient Egyptian palace, his brother in that lifetime approached him. Grof   relates:

&quot;As the figure came closer, I recognized that it was   Wolfgang. He stopped about ten feet from me and looked at me with immense   hatred. I realized that in this Egyptian incarnation Wolfgang, Monica, and I   were siblings. I was the firstborn and, as such, I had married Monica and   received many other privileges that came with that status. Wolfgang felt cheated   and experienced agonizing jealousy and strong hatred toward me. I saw clearly   that this was the basis of a destructive karmic pattern that then repeated   itself in many variations throughout ages.&quot;75

This explains the instant connection and deep love he felt   for Monica shortly after they met in his current lifetime, as he was married to   her in the Egyptian lifetime. It also explains the 'distinct incestuous   features' of Monica's relationship to Wolfgang in this lifetime, as he had been   her sibling before and had desired to marry her. Finally, it explains Wolfgang's   instant hatred for Grof in the current lifetime, as Grof's relationship with   Monica stirred up the unconscious memory of his hatred for Grof in the Egyptian   lifetime for marrying Monica. It's just one big giant puzzle to which the past   is the key to unlocking. We clearly see that Grof's current life experiences are   in no way accidental; there is a purpose and reason for them.

While experiencing the intense hatred coming from the past   life figure of Wolfgang, he decided to try and dissipate this hatred somehow. He   telepathically communicated to Wolfgang that he had taken a powerful mind   altering drug which allowed him to time travel and that he would like to do   anything possible to dissipate this hatred Wolfgang had for him. He then   stretched out his arms in an open position and telepathically relayed the   message:&nbsp; &quot;Here I am, this is all I have! Please, do anything you need to do to   liberate us from this bondage, to set both of us free!&quot;76 Next,   Wolfgang accepted his offer and Grof experienced Wolfgang's hatred in the form   of two intense rays of energy which burned his body and caused him great pain.   Finally after some time the rays of energy lost their power and faded away.

Now, skeptics might chalk something like this up to a   psychological fantasy imagined by Grof. However, an intriguing synchronicity   suggests otherwise. Shortly after his LSD session, Grof received a phone call   from Wolfgang who wanted to discuss a problem he was having in a relationship   with a woman. Grof writes:

&quot;He thought about discussing the issue with me, but had   rejected the idea because of his strong negative feelings toward me. But then   his attitude toward me suddenly changed radically. His hatred dissolved as if by   magic, and he decided to call me and seek help. When I asked him when this had   happened, I found out that it exactly coincided with the time when I had   completed the reliving of the Egyptian sequence.&quot;77

It's one thing for Grof alone to experience psychologically   the resolution of this ancient karmic pattern, but quite another for another   player in the karmic pattern, who had no knowledge of what Grof was doing at the   time, to experience the resolution of the same karmic pattern at the exact same   time that Grof did. This suggests that something much deeper was going on beyond   the confines of Grof's own psyche. It also suggests that Grof was indeed going   back to the source of the karmic pattern that was playing itself out yet again   in this life.

We can see from the previous account that Grof's   relationship with Monica and Wolfgang was no accident. It was meant to happen,   as it was part of a karmic pattern that had been repeating itself since his days   in ancient Egypt. The plan for Grof's life included this relationship. Somehow   this hatred between Grof and Wolfgang needed to be dispelled. Possibly this   resolution could have occurred through later interactions in this life. However,   Grof did it via an alternate route. In an altered state of consciousness, where   his psyche had access to the information of his past lives, he went back to the   source of the hatred between him and Wolfgang.&nbsp;   Convergence number three:&nbsp; Life is about Spiritual Growth

Many times we get caught up in Karmic complexes, like the   one Stanislav Grof found himself in. The key to life is not the experiences that   you have, but the choices you make and how you deal with those circumstances.   &nbsp;Psychiatrist Brian Weiss makes this point clear in his book Same Soul, Many   Bodies.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 
  &quot;True, some soul chose to come back as Saddam Hussein, another as Osama bin   Laden. I believe they came back to maximize their learning opportunities, the   same as you and me. They did not choose to come back initially to do harm, to   cause violence and blow up other people and become terrorists. They came back to  resist that urge, probably because they had succumbed to it in previous   lifetimes. They came back for a kind of field test in this school we live in and   they failed miserably.

This is all speculation, of course, but I believe their   souls came back to inhabit them in an effort to find alternatives to violence,   prejudice, and hatred. (The abusive parent's soul comes back for the same   reason.) They amassed money and power, and faced the choice of violence or   compassion, prejudice or teaching, hatred or love. This time we know their   decision. They will have to come back again, face the consequences of their   actions, face the choices again, until they are able to move forward.&quot;78

Once we master the lessons, such as learning to show   compassion even in the face of violence, then we advance spiritually. Our souls   continue to reincarnate to learn these lessons, as one lifetime is not enough to   learn them all. The lessons themselves are endless ranging from learning   courage, bravery, standing up for what you believe in, compassion, forgiveness   to everything in between. Each lifetime gives us the opportunities we need in   order to learn our lessons and advance spiritually. The lessons you've mastered   continue to influence you in future lives, while you work on other lessons.

A specific example of learning a lesson comes from the   book, Same Soul, Many Bodies. Psychiatrist Brian Weiss explores not only   the past lives, but also possible future lives, of his patients. One patient,   named Chitra needed to learn to balance compassion and love, which must be   received as well as given. She reviews a number of lives where she's either   giving love and compassion without really receiving much back, being on the   receiving end without having to give much, or where she strikes a balance   between the two. These are future lives which depend on her choices in this   life. In this life, forced to care for her Hindu mother, she was being   suffocated by having to give up her own goals and happiness to constantly care   for her aging mother. Chitra had to learn not to sacrifice her goals because of   cultural values, individual circumstances, or guilt. As a result of her   regressions, 'she was able to express her anger and resentment toward her mother   and her siblings for trapping her in the caregiver role'despite the cultural   taboos prohibiting such rebellion'and by so doing freed herself.'79   As Brian Weiss concludes:

&quot;If Chitra continued stuck in her present family   pattern, then she might have to experience a future as the paralysis victim   forced to receive love [being on the receiving end]. If she just gave up,   abruptly ending her relationship with her mother, abandoning her without a   reasonable compromise, she might have had to come back as the mother of the   seriously impaired child [having to give lots of love but receive little].   Because that is how it works:&nbsp; We face similar situations again and again as we   seek to learn the proper balance between giving and receiving, between sacrifice   and compassion for ourselves--until we achieve the state of harmony&quot;80

Once learning is achieved, we may go on to learn other   lessons. Another good example of a lesson that needs to be learned comes from   the fascinating Near-Death Experience of Amy C. While in the spiritual world,   she meets a guide/teacher who has mastered the lesson of Humility. He is with a   group of people who had &quot;casual disregard for life&quot; or who took &quot;flagrant and   selfish risks&quot; that interfered with the lessons they had to learn and eventually   led to their demise. The Guide/Teacher is there to teach them the valuable   lesson of humility in the spiritual world before they go back to be tested while   in another body on earth. Quoting from Amy's experience:

&quot;The teacher continued to offer more information.&nbsp; He   explained how in aborting their own lives, these people would have a rest   period, but that learning what they needed to learn would be difficult.&nbsp; I came   to understand that as much as they were taught and infused with good and helpful   information there, and even if they agreed &quot;wholeheartedly&quot; with what was being   taught.. or what they needed to learn, that learning without a body is like   learning to get over an addiction to drugs with no opportunity to do the drugs!&nbsp;   Or like learning to love one's own enemy without having enemies to deal with.&nbsp;   He explained how he needed to teach this group of people how vital it is to let   go of themselves.&nbsp; How to lose their obsession with themselves.&nbsp; How they will   be stagnant in all progress if they cannot unchain themselves from their own   self-obsessions.&nbsp; He had to teach them the importance of humility.&nbsp; And yet, he   shook his head, smiling slightly, and he implied that there was still very   little he could help them with, without their bodies.&nbsp; His hope was to instill   more of a passion for what he had to teach, strong enough that it would leave a   seed of Light that might stay with them through their sojourns.&quot;81

After being taught the lesson in Humility by the Master,   these souls will then go into new bodies to test their learning in specific   situations on Earth. The fact that life is about learning is also found in the   annals of UFO research. Under hypnosis Bob Luca uncovered a conversation between   him and a &quot;white-robed Elder&quot; during a UFO abduction. He comes to understand   that:

&quot;Life is wonderfully fair. Those of us in this plane   just don't understand it. When you see a small child that becomes ill and dies,   people weep, they cry, they grieve. They grieve for themselves. The child does   not need to be here any longer. The child has already advanced, much as you   would skip a grade in school. It is not a bad thing. People that are sick or   injured . . . their faith is being tested. The reactions are recorded. This   determines whether or not they need more teaching. They need to advance   spiritually. Can they go to the next step? Is there more they must learn?&quot;82  Convergence number four:&nbsp; The Problem of Evil

This inevitably brings up the question of Evil. Why do some   people live in slums while others live as kings? Why do some people grow up in   loving families, while others suffer at the hands of abusive parents? As we have   already learned, the basic experiential complex of our lives is predetermined to   some extent in the spiritual world before we're born. The circumstances that   we're born into are the circumstances that are conducive to our learning needs.   But disregarding all of that, at the most basic level Evil is a necessary   precondition for Good. As we live in a world of polarity, without evil good   could not exist. I will discuss the insights into the operations of evil on the   physical plane as found in Near-Death Experiences, Consciousness research, and   UFO experiences.

Consciousness researcher Stanislav Grof does an excellent   job at explaining why there is evil in the world in his magnum opus The   Cosmic Game. He explains that &quot;the existence of the shadow side of creation   enhances its light aspect by providing contrast and gives extraordinary richness   and depth to the universal drama.'83 This is a very telling and   accurate statement by Grof. People just don't understand what the world would be   like without the existence of evil. In one sense, it seems great if we could   instantly gratify any and every desire we had. But if you really think about it,   would there really be any desires at all without evil? We desire food because   we're hungry, sex because we haven't had it in awhile, drink because we're   thirsty. But without hunger, sexual desire, or thirst there would be no need or   desire to fulfill. And further think about being able to immediately satisfy any   desire. At first it would be great, but after awhile you would see that it is a   very boring way of existence.

Grof further explains how the eradication of evil would at   the same time eradicate the good in life. In his own words:

&quot;Together with the [elimination of] diseases we   eliminate the entire history of medicine--medical research and the knowledge it   imparts, the discovery of the causes of dangerous illnesses, as well as   miraculous cures for them, such as vitamins, antibiotics, and hormones. There   are no more miracles of modern medicine--life-saving operations, organ   transplants, and genetic engineering. We lose all the great pioneers of science,   like Virchow, Semmelweiss, and Pasteur, the heroes who dedicated their entire   lives to a passionate search for answers to medical problems. There is also no   need for the love and compassion of all those who take care of ailing people,   from physicians and nurses to a variety of good Samaritans. We lose Mother   Teresa together with the reason to award her a Nobel Prize.&quot;84

You easily see that the existence of evil is actually a   very valuable part of creation, for without it there would be no need for   creation. We could just all rest in a state of bliss as perfect Cosmic   Consciousness. To put it simply, if life is to be about learning and growing   spiritually, then evil is necessary. How could the spiritually advanced be   tested without evil? How could we learn without any evil? These sentiments are   clearly expressed in the writings of UFO researcher Raymond Fowler. While under   hypnotic trance, Bob Luca recounts the following message:

&quot;Without those who are detrimental to society, those   who are advanced cannot be tested. Hussein serves a necessary purpose. Evil   serves a necessary purpose. Without all evil to overcome, the righteous could   not advance and triumph. It's all...part of the system--I guess you could   say--the order of things, just as the planet must rotate about the sun. There   must be a degree of evil. There must be sorrow. There must be suffering, because   without these things, there is no advancement and nothing to overcome.&quot;85

Without evil there is no growth and no advancement. In   retrospect, there couldn't even be good without evil. For, to define something   you must have something to define it against. I can define what a table is   because I can separate it from other things. But if there were no other things,   then all would be table without definition. Evil is just part of the plan, part   of creation. There's nothing to worry about because in the end everything serves   a higher purpose and all is Good. As one Near-Death Experiencer explains:&nbsp;

&quot;I remember I knew that everything, everywhere in the   universe was OK, that the plan was perfect. That whatever was happening--the   wars, famine, whatever--was OK. Everything was perfect. Somehow it was all part   of the perfection, that we didn't have to be concerned about it at all. And the   whole time I was in this state, it seemed infinite. It was timeless. I was just   an infinite being in perfection. And love and safety and security and knowing   that nothing could happen to you and you're home forever. That you're safe   forever. And that everybody else was.&quot;86

In the Light, everything becomes united in the perfect   Good. While in physical reality we constantly judge things as either good, bad,   or neutral. We are stuck in this sense of duality. But all is just experience   and our judgments of good and bad mean little in the end. We are here to   experience, learn, and grow. For that to be possible we need the &quot;good&quot; and the   &quot;bad&quot;.   Convergence number 5:&nbsp; We exist in a multi-dimensional universe

Finally, a vast body of knowledge from UFO research, NDE   research, and consciousness research suggests that there are multiple dimensions   that can be consciously experienced. We're all familiar with the material   dimension that we experience on a daily basis. This is the dimension we know   best, and some naively conclude it's all there is. But we should not be so naive   to think that the reality our brains are trained to reconstruct inside of our   skulls is the only reality that exists. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;

In fact, we all experience an alternate dimension when we   sleep at night. During our dreams we have fantastic adventures. We experience a   whole other world complete in and of itself. We interact with people and do all   sorts of things in our dreams. And while the dream is going on, it is our   reality. It is only when we awake that we realize 'it was all just a dream.' Our   minds, it seems, are capable of constructing a whole different reality inside   our skulls while we are asleep. Our dreams for the most part are a subjective   reality, constructed and existing only in our minds. However, other dimensions   could well be freestanding dimensions created by Source Consciousness, or the   combined consciousness of a number of beings. These dimensions would be places   your consciousness could connect to and experience. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;

Near-Death Experiencers often enter just such a dimension   after death. There are a great number of accounts describing heavenly paradises,   typically with green grass, crystal clear water, and rolling hills. One   Near-Death Experiencer describes the following:

&quot;. . .then I noticed this rotating hole in the wall   like a tunnel with the most beautiful blue and whitest light that offered so   much peace that I followed the white light down the blue crystal tunnel then I   entered into the most peaceful green valley surrounded by trees on both sides   with the morning dew and fog still present the vegetation was so lush and the   air was of a[n] angelic almost dreamy like pleasure to breath it was effortless   and then my grandfather met me and I was so happy to see him he had already   died, but he was as real [as] when he was alive. I am still in shock today but   it is and still is wonderful to dream and remember the experience. My   grandfather was wearing a long white rob that almost glowed or was illuminated   with the whitest white you could believe . . .&quot;87

He emerged from the tunnel into a whole new world. It has   many characteristics of our physical world, but chances are that it is not   located in the physical universe we know of, but in another dimension   altogether. It exists on another plane that your consciousness can travel to,   but not your physical body. Another NDEer, David Oakford, even describes   visiting a spirit city during his NDE. There he saw spirits working and playing   as if on Earth.88 Conversely, sometimes people experience hellish   realms, such as the following NDE:

&quot;Soon I came to the entrance of a tunnel in the black.   The tunnel seemed to be constructed of gray cloudlike material and wound far   away and up to the right.&nbsp; Then it branched and I couldn't see where it led.   From the branching on the right extended a yellow white light that helped to   softly illuminate the tunnel. I glanced down at myself and noticed that my body   was gone. It had been replaced by a blue white light sort of equilimbed   cross/star that pulsed. This seemed&quot; natural and pleasant to me at the time. It   was very freeing to no longer be attached to a weighty form.

Looking back into the tunnel, I noticed there were   doorways in both sides of the structure. A few other cross/stars were wandering   about in the tunnel, some blue like myself, some amber colored. Two other blue   cross/stars appeared beside me and gently propelled me into the tunnel. I   floated along and up observing that some &quot;door-ways&quot; were open while others   seemed to have been shut. The first doorway I peered into resembled a classic   Hell. There was the sound of shrieking and agonizing screams. Naked human beings   were strewn about a blasted landscape with pools of bubbling excrement and   jagged boulders. Devils and other animals were torturing people in all   imaginable ways; and people were also torturing each other. As I neared the   doorway to this sinister scene, I felt a sucking sensation drawing me in like a   whirlpool, and I found myself &quot;flying&quot; above the miserable landscape. The smell   was putrid and the heat was almost unbearable but a part of me was fascinated by   the seemingly infinite varieties of pain and anguish that was being inflicted on   the inhabitants of this realm. Most of me wanted to leave so I had no difficulty   and my feeling was that anyone could leave if they wished. I felt that no one or   nothing had put those people in captivity except their belief in the agony they   continued to suffer. I &quot;flew&quot; back to the doorway which was clearly visible from   everywhere in the &quot;Hell&quot; I left with nothing but joy, but I still had a sense of   myself as apart from that joy. The next doorway in the tunnel wasn't much   better. As far as the eye could see people walked on barren yellow ground with   their heads down, completely engrossed in their own depressed self- pitying   thoughts, unaware that anyone else was around them. A great feeling of   loneliness and isolation emanated from the scene, and I shied away from getting   too close, although no sucking sensation was felt near this opening in the cloud   tunnel.&quot;89

Sarah also experiences a   tunnel, this time with doorways or passages leading to different realms. These   are other dimensions that seem to exist independently; they are freestanding.   Different souls, no doubt, are attracted by their very nature to experience   different dimensions whether hellish or heavenly. All dimensions are essentially   conscious creations. Even your very thoughts are a sort of dimension, created by   your own consciousness. But other dimensions are often a collective effort; the   creation of many units of consciousness. As out-of-body explorer William Buhlman   explains, &quot;the creative energies of consciousness create the various dimensions.   Each dimension is an expression and extension of consciousness.&quot; He also says,   &quot;there are countless nonphysical realities or heavens. Many exist as consensus   realities created by the thoughts of&nbsp; large numbers of beings.'90   &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;

Indeed, the specific &quot;reality&quot;   that you experience immediately after death can take many forms. To show the   variety of dimensions in the afterlife, I will include here one more NDE account   from Doctor Jeffrey Long's book Evidence of the Afterlife. This NDEer   also saw doorways in the tunnel which he felt he could go through if he wanted.   However he kept his attention on the Light. He thought about his Grandma who had   previously died and then found himself in the Light. After entering the light,   he describes the following encounter with his Grandma:

&quot;She invited me to sit and have coffee like we used to   all the time at her house. Her table was there, the chairs. She looked like she   did when she was in her thirties. She had on a purple dress, like a nice one she   had with flowers on it, except that the flowers seemed to glow a fluorescent   yellow. Then I noticed that there was a fluorescent light that emanated from the   top of the room [. . .] I then kind of got a little panicky 'cause I noticed   that there was no light source; it was just there. That's when she touched my   hand, [and] I noticed that I looked down and could see my hand also. It was   there, but it looked white, almost fluorescent [. . .] And she said, let's drink   the coffee. I did. But I notice[d] that it was not hot and had no taste. It was   lukewarm, but yet there was steam coming from it, like it was hot but was not.   It's like when you are sick and there's no taste [. . .] And then I noticed that   the room was domelike, that in one section, the left side of that domed room,   was like a curtain, and I saw my grandfather on my mom's side peek through, and   I [saw] another lady, heavyset, short, with a long black ponytail. I wanted to   say something, and that is when my grandmother told me, &quot;You have to go; you   can't stay here; it's not your time.&quot;&quot;91

The tables, chairs, and coffee   all resemble things like they were on the physical plane on Earth. However,   these things are simply conscious creations in the afterlife. In the afterlife,   where things are more energetic and free-flowing, your thoughts can be projected   to create different realities. This is evident in the fact that many of the   deceased individuals encountered during an NDE have an appearance of themselves   as they were in their prime, not just before they died. This is because they   choose what image to project in the afterlife. Therefore, the most likely   explanation for this room is that it is a conscious creation (projection) of his   Grandma and maybe some other individuals who also desire this kind of setting.   It could be meant to make the NDEer comfortable.

However, we don't have to die   to gain access to other dimensions. An alteration of brain chemistry may also do   the trick of releasing our consciousness to experience other realms. Now, many   people because of their conditioning that the material realm is all there is   will suggest that if it's a chemical causing the experience, then it's not real,   just a hallucination. However, a quick study of the literature on psychedelic   substances will show that the experiences people have while on these substances   are not always hallucinations. I will give one example, written about in When   the Impossible Happens by grandmaster of consciousness research Stanislav   Grof. It involves a patient named Richard undergoing LSD treatment for   psychological problems. In one of his sessions, he enters another dimension:

&quot;He suddenly found himself in a space that had an eerie   luminescence and was filled with discarnate beings who were trying to   communicate with him [. . .] One of the discarnate beings implored Richard to   connect with the being's parents in Kromeriz, a city in Moravia, and let them   know that their son Ladislav was doing all right and was well taken care of. The   message included the couple's name and telephone number; this was information   that was unknown to both Richard and me and had no relevance to either of us. [.   . .] After the session, I decided to do what certainly would have made me the   target of my colleagues' jokes had they found out. I went to the telephone,   dialed the number in Kromeriz, and asked if I could speak with Ladislav. To my   astonishment, the woman on the other side of the line started to cry. When she   calmed down, she told me with a broken voice:&nbsp; &quot;Our son is not with us anymore;   he passed away; we lost him three weeks ago.&quot;&quot;92

The simplest explanation for   the above experience is that his consciousness gained access to another   dimension where a discarnate being conveyed specific information to him.   Hallucination is not even a possible explanation in this case because the   information is both specific, accurate, and previously unknown to the recipient.   But how can a chemical like LSD allow you to gain access to other dimensions?

A new conception of how the   brain works is of course needed. And a predominate theory has emerged. Aldous   Huxley in his famous work The doors of Perception says that the brain is   like a reducing valve, only allowing a measly trickle of reality to get through.   Our brain, then, is trained to only pick up information from the material realm   and relay that to consciousness.93 But, certain substances such as   LSD may alter the brain's receiving capacity so that information from other   realms is allowed through to consciousness. Moreover, these substances may   fundamentally change the reality that is picked up by the brain so that one   loses touch altogether with the physical world and experiences only another   dimension.

Psychiatrist Rick Strassman   takes a similar view in his book DMT: The Spirit Molecule. In his view,   the brain is like a TV set tuned into &quot;Channel Normal.&quot; Channel Normal would be   equivalent to everyday material reality. However, the brain is capable of tuning   into other &quot;channels&quot; or dimensions that always and continuously exist, but that   we are usually unaware of.94 The reason for Strassman's startling   conclusion is because of the experiences of people who were injected with   Di-methyl-tryptamine (DMT) in a controlled study conducted by Strassman at the   University of New Mexico. DMT, like LSD, is a psychedelic substance which can   allow one to access other dimensions of reality.

One of his subjects, Sara,   reported going to a void of darkness and meeting beings there who were glad to   see her and wanted to learn more about physical bodies. Then after coming down   from that &quot;trip&quot; she took another dose where she was again blasted off into   never never land and made contact with the very same beings again. She says,   &quot;They knew I was coming back and they were ready for me. They told me there were   many things they could share with us when we learn how to make more extended   contact. Again, they wanted something from me, not just physical information.   They were interested in emotions and feelings.'95 Other times, the   entities on the other side of the veil wonder what this newly arrived being is   doing there.96 His subjects often found themselves in alien   environments, but some experienced environments that resembled Earth.   Intriguingly, the &quot;volunteers not only saw these things, but felt an unshakeable   certainty that they actually were there. Opening their eyes at any time   superimposed this reality with their now-manifest but previously invisible one.'97

Taken at face value this   evidence is suggestive of the reality of other realms of conscious experience.   Considering the fact that they communicated with beings who in some cases were   waiting for them to come back in another DMT session and the fact that they   continued experiencing this reality even with their eyes open suggests that   their brains were indeed picking up information from another realm and   transmitting it to consciousness, just as our brains normally pick up   information from the material realm and transmit it to consciousness. Strassman   comments that he repeatedly thought: &quot;This sounds like nothing I've ever heard   about in my therapy patients' dream life. It is much more bizarre,   well-remembered, and internally consistent.'98

The UFO mystery also provides   us with rich evidence of other dimensions. Most intriguingly, UFO's seem to be   craft that can manifest in this dimension from another. It's a reversal of how   DMT or LSD takes us into other dimensions. Now, it's beings and craft from other   dimensions manifesting in our world. UFO abductee Jim Sparks, in his book The   Keepers, describes a time when a UFO manifested over a beach he was at.

&quot;I turned, and for some reason I knew exactly where to   look. Right there, hanging stationary in the sky in broad daylight was a   diamond-shaped ship. It looked as though the sky had partially opened up to let   it in because directly behind the ship was a streak of bright white light with a   hue of blue. It was beautiful, just hanging there. [. . .] Then, in a flash, it   disappeared.&quot;99

The craft had a bright white   light behind it and then disappeared in a flash, like it just winked out. This   is not just Sparks who reports these things. Another UFO reported by Jacques   Vallee in his book Confrontations is said to have &quot;remained in position   for three minutes and vanished on the spot, 'as if someone had turned off the   light.&quot;&quot;100 Again in his book Dimensions there is a case where   a doctor observed a UFO that sent a shaft of light which lit up his front yard   and shone right into his face. Immediately afterwards, &quot;a bang was heard and the   disk went away, leaving behind a whitish glow which was slowly blown away by the   wind.&quot;101 Likewise, the apparitions at Fatima of the Virgin Mary   follow the same pattern. Regarding Fatima, Vallee reports that on one occasion   &quot;a clap of thunder was heard, followed by a bright flash. A small whitish cloud   was forming around the tree.&quot;102

This flash of light and the   sudden appearance or disappearance of a craft or ball of light suggests that   these things are popping into this dimension from somewhere else. It reminds one   of the sudden appearance and disappearance of electrons or other minute   &quot;virtual&quot; particles in the microscopic realm. We also have other correlative   evidence of this flash of light and a sudden manifestation of a being from   another realm. One such case was reported by a police officer on the Coast to   Coast radio program hosted by George Noory. This officer found the dead body of   a deceased sexual predator after he failed to show up for work for many days. At   the time he found the body, he actually saw the ghost of the man standing over   his dead body. Then one night, the officer woke up from something slapping him   on the foot. He describes that in a flash, another spirit came into the room and   got between him and the other spirit and he fell back asleep. The officer   reports that a psychic later told him that his grandfather was the spirit who   intervened between him and the other spirit of the deceased man.103

Describing the coming of this other spirit as &quot;in a flash&quot;   suggests a flash of light. And where would his Grandfather come from, except   from the dimension of the afterlife? It's time we remove our naivet' that the   material reality we see with our physical eyes is the only reality and recognize   that there are other realms of conscious experience. Furthermore, crossover is   possible. One can access other dimensions while in a physical body and conscious   entities in other dimensions can manifest in ours. There is ample evidence for   this. It is only the mechanics of such manifestation that are unknown. How do   UFO's manifest in our world from another? This is the mystery.

We can not leave this inquiry into dimensions alone without   mentioning UFO abductions. Although some abductions suggest an actual physical   taking of the individual, there are many instances where it seems more likely   that what was abducted was the individuals conscious mind, not their physical   self. A prime example of this is an event in the life of Sequoyah Trueblood, as   reported by Dr. John Mack in his book Passport to the Cosmos. One day   while relaxing by the pool, Trueblood was compelled without knowing why to go to   the airport where he boarded a plane to Oklahoma City. There, he contacted a   friend who drove him to the home of another friend in Norman, Oklahoma. Feeling   a little strange, Sequoyah asked to lie down and rest. After lying down, &quot;he saw   a kind of vortex of swirling lights &quot;like a rainbow,&quot; into which he was sucked.'104   These swirling visuals of intricate color are also described by many of   Strassman's volunteers who were injected with DMT. After going beyond these   visual displays his participants found themselves in other strange worlds.105   After being sucked through the color vortex,

&quot;Sequoyah then found himself standing in a beautiful garden   surrounded by hedges. He was now wide awake, &quot;no different than me sitting right   here with you now.&quot; In front of him was a silvery saucer-shaped craft and a   shimmering small silver-looking being standing on steps that were coming down   from the bottom of the craft. The being looked grayish and had a large bald head   with large eyes, and Sequoyah sensed it was &quot;androgynous,&quot; neither male nor   female. The being communicated telepathically that it was from &quot;another place&quot;   and had been sent to take him there because &quot;they&quot; wanted to talk to him.&quot;106

He then boarded the craft and traveled to &quot;a beautiful   white city in what he felt was another planet in another realm or universe.'107   While in this city he communicates with one of the persons there, who are   described as having fair skin, wearing white robes, and having hair that glowed   like sunlight. This figure tells him about his mission in life to teach people   &quot;about the great peace and love that fills all creation.'108 They   relate to him that the events of his life have been preparation for this task.   Finally, Sequoyah returns the same way he came, by boarding the craft, traveling   back to the garden scene, proceeding through the vortex, and awakening on his   friends bed. Sequoyah dismisses the possibility of this being a hallucination   because he had had drug induced hallucinations before the experience, but they   were more fragmented and recognizable as a symptom of toxicity or withdrawal.   His account of what happened, however, was much more clear and coherent. Could   it have been a simple dream? This of course is possible, but then we have the   problem of his sudden impulse to leave his house and travel to another state.   This uncharacteristic behavior suggests that something of a higher order is   going on, like a higher intelligence is influencing him. At face value a more   likely explanation is that his consciousness was sucked through the vortex and   taken to another dimension through the influence of some higher intelligence.   This would be to suggest that we do indeed live in a multi-dimensional universe   that is populated with other intelligent conscious entities. Also, it would   suggest that our consciousness is capable of connecting to and experiencing   these other dimensions.

Another UFO abductee, Jim Sparks, also describes the   dimensional nature of his experiences. His abductions, as described in his book  The Keepers, would be preceded by &quot;a low-pitched whirling sound, which   slowly got louder.'109 This would be followed by &quot;a tremendous   rushing feeling&quot; and acceleration as if he were on a rollercoaster.110   Then everything would stop, the whirling and acceleration, and he would find   himself in an alien environment. Then when he was finished there, the whirling   and acceleration would come again and he would find himself back in bed.111   So, just as people experience energetic sensations preceding an out-of-body   experience, we have the same phenomenon occurring in regards to UFO abductions.   Whatever is happening in the body as such moments must be tied to a releasing of   the consciousness of the person. Or at the very least it is a reorientation of   the conscious mind to &quot;tune into&quot; and experience a different dimension.

To explore this idea further, it is useful to look at one   abduction where Sparks did his best to try and keep conscious awareness during   the abduction. Usually, he blacked out sometime after experiencing the whirling   sound and intense energy going on in his body. Then he would wake up in an alien   environment. But on one occasion, he fights to keep his awareness through the   whole experience and reports the following:

&quot;The living room furniture started turning transparent.   My television, chairs, sofa, then the walls themselves started to fade away. I   discovered that I could turn my head to the right, left, up and down. The   whirling sound became so loud I almost blacked out. I could feel the soft fibers   of my carpet against my bare feet. I could also feel my rear end sinking into   the foam rubber sofa cushion. Slowly my feet began to feel cold as though they   were dangling in the air. At the same time I could feel cold hard metal under my   butt. I looked down. my feet were dangling in the air as if propped on a   hospital table. Yet at the same time I could see my feet firmly planted on my   living room carpet. How could this be? Then I glanced down at my lower torso. I   could see and feel myself sitting on a metal table, and I could see and feel   myself still propped on my sofa. Somehow, I could also feel the cushion of the   sofa at the same time that I could feel cold hard steel under my rear end.&quot;112

One reality, that of his living room, is slowly fading   away, while another reality, that of sitting on a hard steel table, is slowly   coming into focus. He finds himself for a time able to see both realities at the   same time. However, later on the reality of his living room fades to nothing and   he is completely immersed in this new setting. It's not as if his consciousness   is necessarily going anywhere, but that it's tuning into a new reality in a   different dimension. If one were to walk into Spark's home during this   experience, they would most likely find him sitting on his couch in some sort of   coma or sleep like state. His consciousness at the time being totally immersed   in this other reality, he would not be aware of you walking in the door.   However, if you shook him, his conscious awareness may snap back to the material   world, leaving the other world behind. This is of course conjecture, but the   question has been addressed in the book The Watchers II by Raymond   Fowler. Under hypnotic regression, abductee Bob Luca is asked what would happen   if someone came into his home and jostled him while his consciousness was in   this other plane. His was asked if his consciousness would be returned to   &quot;Channel Normal,&quot; or the material realm. He responded affirmatively and added   that &quot;it would be done in an instant--a flash of an eye.'113

Considering this rich bank of evidence, from NDE accounts   of going to heavenly or hellish realms, psychedelic trips to other worlds, UFO's   suddenly appearing and disappearing in the material realm, and abductees claims   that they are consciously transported to another dimension during their   experience, we need to consider the definite possibility of the existence of   other dimensions. Otherwise, what explanation for these experiences are we left   with? Hallucination is an unlikely candidate when you consider that people   sometimes come back from these other realms with information that they could not   have previously known. Also, the accounts are coherent and not fragmented.   Dimensionality is the most likely explanation if we eliminate the hallucination   theory. If we consider reality like a giant radio, then the material world is a   specific narrow set of frequencies, like one radio station of this giant radio.   All about us, other bands of frequencies are broadcasting other realities just   as real as this one. Our brain, which our consciousness interfaces with, is   trained to pick up only the frequencies of the material world. However, whether   chemically induced or guided by higher intelligences, our brains may be re-tuned   to pick up a different range of frequencies, or bypassed altogether allowing our   conscious minds to freely escape from the body for a time and travel to other   dimensions. And if we can travel to other dimensions, then it's no leap of   imagination to think that beings in those other dimensions can travel to ours,   as UFO's seem to be doing.  Conclusion

A supreme intelligent consciousness underlies reality. This   consciousness manifests all of the energy in the universe and provides the   information necessary to create stars, galaxies, planets, and life. In other   words, it forms and directs the matter of the universe. This explains the   creation of DNA and cellular structures which show clear signs of intelligence.   It also explains how the mind can control brain and bodily processes.

Near-Death Experiences provide clear-cut evidence that   after death, consciousness continues to exist.&nbsp;&nbsp; Our individual consciousness is   part of a larger Consciousness and may experience union with this Source after   death or while alive. Experiential union with this source consciousness is   experienced in terms of love, light, and knowledge.

Accepting the underlying consciousness, or intelligence, to   the universe opens up a new paradigm. Not only is consciousness fundamental and   eternal, but life begins to resemble a cosmic play in which every individual   aspect of consciousness plays a part. The human body/brain allow our aspects of   consciousness to experience the material dimension. As I have shown, however,   the body is only a shell. Consciousness can disconnect from the body.

Life, far from being a meaningless accident in a far off   corner of the universe, serves a purpose. Since our individual aspect of   consciousness is ultimately identical to the Source, we have created the   material universe to experience. A vast body of knowledge from NDE's to LSD   psychotherapy shows us that life is about spiritual growth and everyone serves a   purpose. And indeed this makes sense in light of the new paradigm. Why would you   create a universe that served no purpose?

Because life is partly about spiritual growth and learning,   evil serves a necessary purpose in the universe. Whether we like it or not, the   sword of logic tells us that there can be no good without evil. Without evil,   there can be no learning, no growth, no test.

What people need to learn is that there is nothing to worry   about. Our ultimate home is in complete love and bliss, which we return to upon   death. Even though evil exists on the material realm, we exist as   multi-dimensional conscious beings capable of experiencing in many dimensions.   We can connect with other dimensions while alive or after &quot;death.&quot; Conversely,   conscious entities from other dimensions may cross over into this one. The   material realm is simply a dimension of consciousness. It is created by   Consciousness and sustained by it. There are many more creations of   consciousness which may be experienced.

If nothing else, this new paradigm will help us to expand   our ideas about what's possible. The true power, though, is that it empowers us.   We, as co-creators of reality, have a duty to accomplish in the universe. We are   all here to serve a valuable purpose. We need no longer fear death, for it is   only a new beginning. Instead, we may embrace life and ask the universe to guide   us on our journey. And all the while, we must know that no matter what troubles   we have in this life, after it's over we will return to the Light.    
  &nbsp;

&nbsp;

Notes:

1.   Meyer, S. C. 2009. Signature in the Cell. HarperCollins:&nbsp; New York, pages   102-103. 
  2. Ibid., p. 99
  3. Ibid., p. 211
  4. Ibid., p. 211
  5. Ibid., p. 212
  6. Ibid., pp. 107-110
  7. Ibid., p. 362. This is based    on William Dembski's work on   design detection.
  8. Ibid., p. 341
  9. Dawkins, R. 2009. The Greatest Show on Earth. Free Press:&nbsp; New York,   page 241.
  10. Meyer, S. C., Ross, M., Nelson, P., and Chien, P. &quot;The Cambrian Explosion:   Biology's Big Bang.&quot; In Darwinism, Design, and Education. Ed. John Angus   Campbell and Steven C. Meyer, East Lancing, MI:&nbsp; Michigan State University   Press, 2004. Page 373. You can also find this article online here:&nbsp; http://www.darwinismanddesign.com/excerpts.php
  11. &nbsp;Behe, M. J. 2007. The Edge of Evolution. Free Press:&nbsp; New York, page   86.
  12. Ibid., pp. 90-91
  13. Ibid., p. 91
  14. Ibid., p. 91
  15. Ibid., p. 89
  16. Lommel, P. V. 2010. Consciousness Beyond Life:&nbsp; The Science of the   Near-Death Experience. HarperOne:&nbsp; New&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; York, page 247.
  17. Ibid., p. 171
  18. Broome, K. (Director). (2002). The Day I Died [TV Documentary] United   Kingdom:&nbsp; BBC. 
  19. Lommel, P. V. 2010. Consciousness Beyond Life:&nbsp; The Science of the   Near-Death Experience. HarperOne:&nbsp; New&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; York, page 172.
  20. Ibid., p. 175
  21. Hamilton, A. J. 2008. The Scalpel and the Soul. Tarcher/Penguin:&nbsp; New   York, page 191.
  22. Ibid., p. 195
  23. Ibid., p. 195
  24. Ibid., p. 200
  25. Rosenblum, B., &amp; Kuttner, F. 2006. Quantum Enigma. Oxford University   Press:&nbsp; New York, pages 72-77.
  26. Lommel, P. V. 2010. Consciousness Beyond Life:&nbsp; The Science of the   Near-Death Experience. HarperOne:&nbsp; New&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;York, page 245.
  27. Ibid., pp. 266-267
  28. Ibid., p. 265
  29. Beauregard, M., &amp; O'Leary, D. 2007.&nbsp; The Spiritual Brain. HarperOne:&nbsp;   New York, page 33.
  30. Ibid., p. 128
  31. Ibid., p. 130
  32. Ibid., p. 132
  33. Ibid., p. 135
  34. Ibid., p. 71
  35. Ibid., p. 70
  36. Ibid., p. 71
  37. Ibid., p. 74
  38. Ibid., p. 75
  39. Ibid., p. 142
  40. Ibid., p. 143
  41. https://www.nderf.org/
  42. Neiman, D. (2010). The Near Death &quot;Experience&quot;. [Online Article]. Available   from https://www.nderf.org/nde_general_info2.htm. Also see: Brumblay, R. J.   (2003). Hyperdimensional Perspectives in Out-of-Body and Near-Death Experiences.  Journal of Near-Death Studies, 21(4), 214-215.
  43. Long, J., &amp; Perry, P. 2010. Evidence of the Afterlife. HarperOne:&nbsp;   New York, pages 95-96.
  44. Near Death Experience Research Foundation. Analisa D's NDE. Accessed   on November 23, 2010. https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1analisa_d_nde.html.
  45. Near Death Experience Research Foundation. Bill W's NDE. Accessed on   November 23, 2010. https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bill_w_nde.html.
  46. Near Death Experience Research Foundation. Roger M's NDE. Accessed on   November 23, 2010. https://www.nderf.org/roger_m's_nde.htm.
  47. Near Death Experience Research Foundation. Mary's NDE. Accessed on   November 23, 2010. https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mary_nde.html.
  48. Near Death Experience Research Foundation. Daniel A's NDE. Accessed   on November 23, 2010. https://www.nderf.org/daniel_a_nde.htm.
  49. Haisch, B. 2006. The God Theory. Weiser:&nbsp; San Francisco, page 29.
  50. Rosenblum, B., &amp; Kuttner, F. 2006. Quantum Enigma. Oxford University   Press:&nbsp; New York, pages 76-77.
  51. Grof, S. 2006. When the Impossible Happens. Sounds True:&nbsp; Boulder,   pages 254-255.
  52. Hamilton, R. 2009. Caduceus. Apollo Publications:&nbsp; London, pages   152-153. 
  53. Fowler, R. E. 1995. The Watchers II. Wild Flower Press:&nbsp; Newberg,   pages 215-218.
  54. Thompson, R. L. 1995. Alien Identities. Govardhan Hill:&nbsp; Alachua,   pages 355-356.
  55. Fowler, R. E. 1995. The Watchers II. Wild Flower Press:&nbsp; Newberg,   pages 102-106.
  56. Ibid., pp. 141-144.
  57. Near Death Experience Research Foundation. Paul G's NDE. Accessed on   November 23, 2010. https://www.nderf.org/paul_g_nde.htm.
  58. Long, J., &amp; Perry, P. 2010. Evidence of the Afterlife. HarperOne:&nbsp;   New York, pages 185-186.
  59. Weiss, B. L. 1988. Many Lives, Many Masters. &nbsp;Fireside:&nbsp; New York,   page 53.
  60. Newton, M. 1994. Journey of Souls. Llewellyn:&nbsp; Woodbury, page 7.
  61. Ibid., pp. 10-11.
  62. Fowler, R. 1990. The Watchers. Bantam:&nbsp; New York, page 154.
  63. Ibid., p. 155
  64. Ibid., p. 158
  65. Buhlman, W. 2001. The Secret of the Soul. HarperSanFrancisco:&nbsp; New   York, page 43.
  66. Ibid., p. 33
  67. Mack, J. E. 1999. Passport to the Cosmos. Three Rivers Press:&nbsp; New   York, pages 73-74.
  68. Buhlman, W. 2001. The Secret of the Soul. HarperSanFrancisco:&nbsp; New   York, pages 250-251.
  69. Near Death Experience Research Foundation. Sylvia W's NDE. Accessed   on November 23, 2010. https://www.nderf.org/sylvia_w's_nde.htm.
  70. Newton, M. 1994. Journey of Souls. Llewellyn:&nbsp; Woodbury, page 221
  71. Ibid., p. 226.
  72. Ibid., p. 226.
  73. Ibid., p. 227.
  74. Grof, S. 2006. When the Impossible Happens. Sounds True:&nbsp; Boulder,   page 143.
  75. Ibid., p. 144.
  76. Ibid., p. 144.
  77. Ibid., p. 147.
  78. Weiss, B. L. 2004. Same Soul, Many Bodies. Fireside:&nbsp; New York, page   15.
  79. Ibid., pp. 89-90.
  80. Ibid., pp. 90-91.
  81. Near Death Experience Research Foundation. Amy C NDE. Accessed on   November 23, 2010. https://www.nderf.org/amy_c_nde_4720.htm.
  82. Fowler, R. E. 1995. The Watchers II. Wild Flower Press:&nbsp; Newberg,   page 344.
  83. Grof, S. 1998. The Cosmic Game. State University of New York Press:&nbsp;   Albany, page 114.
  84. Ibid., p. 115.
  85. Fowler, R. E. 1995. The Watchers II. Wild Flower Press:&nbsp; Newberg,   page 345.
  86. Ring, K. 1984. Heading Toward Omega. Morrow:&nbsp; New York, page 62.
  87. Near Death Experience Research Foundation. Frederick F NDE. Accessed   on November 23, 2010. https://www.nderf.org/frederick_f_nde.htm.
  88. Oakford, D. L. 2007. Journey Through the World of Spirit. Reality   Press:&nbsp; Foresthill, pages 46-47.
  89. Near Death Experience Research Foundation. Sarah's NDE. Accessed on   November 23, 2010. https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sarah_nde.html.
  90. Buhlman, W. 2001. The Secret of the Soul. HarperSanFrancisco:&nbsp; New   York, page 250.
  91. Long, J., &amp; Perry, P. 2010. Evidence of the Afterlife. HarperOne:&nbsp;   New York, pages 96-97.
  92. Grof, S. 2006. When the Impossible Happens. Sounds True:&nbsp; Boulder,   pages 177-178.
  93. Huxley, A. 2004. The Doors of Perception &amp; Heaven and Hell. Harper   Perennial:&nbsp; New York, page 23.
  94. Strassman, R. 2001. DMT The Spirit Molecule. Park Street Press:&nbsp;   Rochester, page 315.
  95. Ibid., p. 215.
  96. Ibid., p. 199.
  97. Ibid., p. 183.
  98. Ibid., p. 314.
  99. Sparks, J. 2008. The Keepers. Wild Flower Press:&nbsp; Columbus, page 158.
  100. Vallee, J. 2008. Confrontations. Anomalist:&nbsp; San Antonio, page 89.
  101. Vallee, J. 2008. Dimensions. Anomalist:&nbsp; San Antonio, page 175.
  102. Ibid., p. 198.
  103. Noory, G. (Host). (2010, April 16, Hour 2, 26:05-31:45). Coast to Coast AM.   Available from: http://www.coasttocoastam.com/show/2010/04/16.
  104. Mack, J. E. 1999. Passport to the Cosmos. Three Rivers Press:&nbsp; New   York, page 188.
  105. Strassman, R. 2001. DMT The Spirit Molecule. Park Street Press:&nbsp;   Rochester, pages 189, 213.
  106. Mack, J. E. 1999. Passport to the Cosmos. Three Rivers Press:&nbsp; New   York, page 188.
  107. Ibid., p. 188.
  108. Ibid., p. 189.
  109. Sparks, J. 2008. The Keepers. Wild Flower Press:&nbsp; Columbus, page 17.
  110. Ibid., p. 18.
  111. Ibid., p. 22.
  112. Ibid., p. 112.
  113. Fowler, R. E. 1995. The Watchers II. Wild Flower Press:&nbsp; Newberg,   page 342.

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

&nbsp;    </body>  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/NDERF/Research/consc_reality_dan.htm