{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/NDERF\/Research\/investigation_dark_side.htm","mytitle":"Scientific Investigation of the 'Dark Side' '''''''''''''''''''''''  By Ken R. Vincent, Ed.D.","mylang":"de"}
          	Scientific Investigation of the 'Dark Side' '''''''''''''''''''''''  By Ken R. Vincent, Ed.D.                    	            		

          Scientific Investigation of the 'Dark Side'
  		   		          By Ken R. Vincent, Ed.D. </b></font></span>   
  Home Page  Current NDEs  Share NDE</span>     	</tr>

    Scientific Investigation of the 'Dark Side '&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
  By Ken R. Vincent, Ed.D.

    (A lecture delivered to the Psi Beta Psychology Honor Society at Houston   Community College, October, 2008 and published in the 2009 Universalist   Herald, 160, 3, 14-17 as The Dark Side of Spiritually Transformative   Experiences) 
  
   Religious experiences, currently known by the term, 'Spiritually Transformative   Experiences'   (STEs) have been studied scientifically for the past 150 years by social   scientists and  biomedical researchers. &nbsp;For purposes of this study, Spiritually Transformative   Experiences   have been divided into four categories: &nbsp;1) Religious/Spiritual/Mystical   Experiences (RSMEs),  2) Near-Death Experiences (NDEs), 3) Death-Bed Visions (DBVs), and 4)   After-Death  Communications (ADCs). &nbsp;While most reported STEs are 'positive' in that they are   pleasant  and provide clarity or insight, a significant minority of reported cases are   'negative' in that   they are frightening. &nbsp;As indicated by the word, 'Transformative,' the most   consistent   characteristic of both positive and negative STEs is that they CHANGE PEOPLE'S   LIVES. &nbsp;
  
  Most of you know me as a Professor of Psychology, but you may not realize that   my main   research focus over the past 20 years has been to ascertain the role that   religious   experience plays in the human psyche. &nbsp;The material I research can usually be   found in no 
  more than one or two chapters of a Psychology of Religion textbook. &nbsp;Just let me   remind you   again: &nbsp;&nbsp;Research into Spiritual Experiences CAN BE and IS conducted using the   same   criteria that we use to investigate any other psychological phenomena (Vincent,   2006). &nbsp;These include: &nbsp;1) Case studies of transpersonal experience, 2) Sociological   surveys that tell   who and what percentage of the population have STEs, 3) Psychological tests that   measure  not only the mental health of the individual but also evaluate the depth of   mystical   experiences, 4) Biomedical and neuroscience testing, including the EEG,   PET-scan, and   functional MRI to, in some cases, document genuine altered states of   consciousness and   demonstrate that mystical experiences are not just wishful thinking;   additionally EEGs and   EKGs allow us to document death in NDEs that occur in hospitals, 5) Sociological   and   psychological investigations that assess the after-effects these experiences   have on people,   and 6) Controlled experimental research (such as Panke's experiment testing   psychedelics)&nbsp;  (Smith, 2000, pp. 99-105).
  
  Even though we are talking about human experience that is basically 'religious'   in nature,   scientists have a legitimate role to investigate it using all the tools of   analysis at our   disposal. &nbsp;In this way, we separate ourselves from the sensational and   fictitious accounts of 
  the National Enquirer and gradually move toward a greater understanding of the   broad   spectrum of human experience.
  
  Spiritually Transformative Experiences - Surveys
  
  Current research documents the following facts: 1) A large percentage of the   population   have experienced STEs, 2) The overwhelming majority of those having STEs are   mentally  normal and not psychotic, and 3) STEs change people's lives for the better   (Vincent, 2006).
  
  To date, research has shown that negative STEs are far less common than positive   ones. &nbsp;In  his initial study of 3,000 cases of STEs sent to the Religious Experience   Research Centre  (RERC) (formerly at Oxford; now at University of Wales Lampeter), Sir Alister   Hardy (1979, p.28) found 4% negative. Somewhat later, using 4,000 cases at the RERC, Merete   Jakobsen  (1999, p. iv) also found 4% negative experiences. &nbsp;Recently, Zinzhong Yao and   Paul  Badham (2007, pp. 9,45-46) of the RERC found in studying 3,196 Chinese that   56.7% had  religious experiences, but only 8.5% of them were negative. &nbsp;They compared this   to a 1987   British survey which found 12% negative experiences (Yao &amp; Badham 2007, p. 185).   &nbsp;Regarding NDEs, in a monumental analysis of over 21 studies, Nancy Evans Bush   (2006)   found 17.2% of them to be negative. &nbsp;Also, most researchers of STEs feel that   the numbers  are under-reported because of the stigma sometimes associated with having a   negative STE.
  
  Judgment and Afterlife in Ancient and Modern World Religions
  
  Do Spiritually Transformative Experiences prove the existence of a God who   interacts with us   personally? &nbsp;Do encounters with dead humans prove the existence of an afterlife?   &nbsp;From my   perspective, they point in that direction for this reason: &nbsp;Virtually all   religions have their   genesis in the Spiritually Transformative Experience of their founder. &nbsp;Also,   the subsequent   theology of virtually all ancient and contemporary religions includes some form   of Judgment   by Divine Beings and subsequent relegation to Heaven or Hell based on the ratio   of good to   bad deeds of the deceased person while on Earth. &nbsp;Hell, of course, is the   ultimate   experience of the 'Dark Side.'
  
  Before we go any further, it is important to realize that when one studies the   experiential   aspect of comparative religion that THE ANGELS, SAINTS, AND JINN OF THE WEST =   THE   SMALL 'g' GODS OF THE EAST because they perform the same function. &nbsp;This will   become   apparent as we look at some variations in cultural expectations surrounding   Judgment.
  
  In Ancient Egypt, we have a Judgment in the Book of the Dead   whereby the heart of the   deceased is weighed against a feather, and woe to those whose heart is heavy   with sin! &nbsp;This Judgment is presided over by the savior god Osiris and his wife Isis   (Budge, 1895/1967,&nbsp;  pp. 253-261).
  
  Later, in Zoroastrianism (the religion of the Magi), Judgment is conducted by   three angels   whose duty is to weigh the good deeds against the bad deeds of the deceased. &nbsp;If   his or her   life reflects an overwhelming preponderance of GOOD deeds, they are allowed to   proceed   across a WIDE bridge; if the deceased has been more evil than good, the bridge   becomes   narrow, and he or she falls into hell.  This same bridge imagery lives on in Shiite Islam where it is the job of the   Angel Gabriel to   hold the divine scales of Judgment (Vincent, 1999, pp.5-6; Masumian, 1995,   p.79).
  
  In Judaism, according to the Book of Daniel (12:1-3), the Archangel Michael   holds the scales   of Judgment on which the deeds of the deceased are weighed. In Medieval   Christian artwork,   the Archangel Michael still holds the scales, but Jesus sits above him as judge.
  
  Now let us move from West to East. &nbsp;In Hinduism and its children, Buddhism,   Sikhism, and   Jainism, Yamaraj (King Yama) is the judge of the dead. &nbsp;In all these religions,   weighing your  good deeds against your bad deeds on the divine scales of justice determines not   only   whether or not you go to heaven or hell in the intermediate state but also the   status of your   next life after reincarnation (Masumian, 1995, pp.5-7, 143). To me,   reincarnation is the only  major theological difference in world religions. &nbsp;The East has it, and in the   West,   reincarnation is only a minority position (such as in the Christianity of the   Gnostics and the   Islamic sect of the Druze). &nbsp;
  
  We see these same themes repeated in the Native American religions of North   America,   Mezzo-America, and South America where the themes of Paradise and Punishment are  repeated (Nigosian, 2000, pp. 382, 384). &nbsp;In virtually all religions, assignment   of the 
  deceased to the 'Dark Side' is either 1) determined by God's emissaries or 2)   determined   by the natural law of the universe.
  
  Near-Death Experiences
  
  Now let us look at the 'Dark Side' of the NDE. &nbsp;In an article in   Psychiatry journal, Bruce   Greyson and Nancy Evans Bush (1992) identified three types of negative NDEs. &nbsp;1)   &nbsp;The  first type is the NDE that is initially frightening but later turns positive,   most often after the   person calls out to God or God's emissary. &nbsp;2) &nbsp;The second type is a   non-existent or 'eternal   void' experience &#9472; in other words, an existential hell. &nbsp;3) &nbsp;The third type is a   'graphic and   hellish landscape and entities.' &nbsp;In her book Blessing in Disguise,   Dr. Barbara Rommer  (2000, p. 87-96) adds a fourth category of a frightening life-review. &nbsp;
  
  The following two examples describe distressing near-death experiences that turn   positive. &nbsp;(Note that both contain graphic imagery of hell.) &nbsp;
  
  'I was in hell'I cried up to God, and it was by the power of God and the mercy   of God that I   was permitted to come back.' (Rommer, 2000, p. 42)
  
  'God, I'm not ready, please help me'I remember when I screamed (this), an arm   shot out of   the sky and grabbed my hand at the last second. &nbsp;I was falling off the end of   the funnel, the   lights flashing; and the heat was really something.' (Greyson &amp; Bush, 1992, p.   100)
  
  Next is an example of both the void and a frightening life review: 'It was not   peaceful, much   baggage, much unfinished business. &nbsp;All things are connected. &nbsp;You are not your   body, you   are a soul. &nbsp;Mine was in limbo. &nbsp;I knew I would be in limbo for a long time. &nbsp;I   had a life review   and was sent to the void. &nbsp;The life review was so disquieting. &nbsp;I saw many   different ways my   life could have taken. &nbsp;I saw my past life in there and other past lives I was   unable to recall.   (Vincent, 1994, p. 119)
  
  It is interesting to note that these experiences are highly similar despite   differences in time or   culture. &nbsp;Thomas Harriot (who was a member of the Jamestown Colony in 17th   Century  Virginia) recorded two stories of NDEs told to him by the Roanoke Indians which,  
  significantly, took place prior to the arrival of the British settlers. The   first story told of an   Indian who died and was buried; the next day, the grave seemed to move, and he   was dug   up. &nbsp;He told of being very near a terrible place of torment, but the gods saved   him and let   him come back to life to teach his friends what they should do to avoid hell.   &nbsp;The second   story was similar, except that in this story, the Indian went to Paradise (Baym,   pp. 76 - 80).
  
  James McClenon (1991) discusses NDEs in Medieval China and Japan. &nbsp;In one case,   he tells  of a ruler named Muh who died but revived 2-1/2 days later. &nbsp;He told of meeting   the Emperor  of Heaven, hearing beautiful music, seeing 10,000 dances, and returning to life   with   prophetic information. &nbsp;Prof. McClenon notes that these Medieval Taoist NDEs   resemble  modern ones.
  
  Deathbed Visions
  
  The next example describes the DBV of a 7th Century Mahayana (Northern)   Buddhist. &nbsp;They  believe that the Amida Buddha is a 'savior god' who can rescue you from hell and   take you  to the pure land of bliss. &nbsp;Once there, you can work out your final ascent to   Nirvana under   blissful conditions. 'A butcher is dying. &nbsp;He first has a vision of hell,   whereupon he was   terrified into chanting the name of 'Amida;' He then had a vision of the Amida   Buddha  offering him a lotus seat and passed peacefully away.' (McClenon, 1994, p.176)
  
  After-Death Communications
  
  If a negative ADC is delivered by a STRANGER, he or she is properly termed a   'ghost!' &nbsp;If it   comes from some super-human entity, it is usually called a 'demon.' &nbsp;The   following two   examples are taken from Merete Jakobsen's Negative Spiritual Experiences:   &nbsp;Encounters   with Evil (pp.17, 21). &nbsp;The first is an evil presence in a British   house, 'This evil presence   was masculine and seemed to come from the wall facing me, nearer and nearer as   though   straining to get me. &nbsp;I saw nothing but the blackness of the room, as my sister   had   (previously), but although it is 20 years or more ago, I'll never disbelieve   that there are   powers of evil. &nbsp;A very violent family had lived there.' &nbsp;&nbsp;The second account is   Danish and   takes place in the woods. &nbsp;'As we progressed, I found several dead birds along   the path. &nbsp;We reached an open space where there had been a bonfire. &nbsp;I felt more and more   anxious   and eventually said to my husband, 'I don't know how you feel, but I have a   sense of evil and   horror in this wood.' My husband said he had not wanted to tell me, but he had   heard that a   satanic cult had used the wood. &nbsp;I wanted to go home immediately. &nbsp;I find it   extraordinary that   human evil can change the whole atmosphere in a large wood.'
  
  Religious/Spiritual/Mystical Experiences
  
  There are ancient and modern accounts of tours of the afterlife. &nbsp;St. Paul,   in II Cor. 12 tells   us of his out-of-body experience in which he is transported to the third level   of heaven. &nbsp;Mohammed in Sura 17:1 of the Quran, tells us of his out-of-body   experience in which he   also is transported to heaven.
  
  Other religious figures in history have had encounters with evil, including   Jesus' encounter   with Satan recorded in the Synoptic Gospels and Buddha's encounter with the   demon,   Mara. &nbsp;The following is St. Teresa of Availa's account of her mystical   experience of hell: &nbsp;
  'The entrance, I thought, resembled a very long, narrow passage like a furnace,   very low,   dark and closely confined; the ground seemed to be full of water which looked   like filthy, evil-smelling mud, and in it were many wicked-looking reptiles. &nbsp;At the end, there   was a hollow   place scooped out of a wall like a cupboard, and it was there that I found   myself in close   confinement. &nbsp;But the sight of all this was pleasant by comparison to what I   felt there' I felt a   fire within my soul, the nature of which I am utterly incapable of describing '   The fact is that   I cannot find words to describe that interior fire and that despair which is   greater than the   most grievous torture and pains' There was no light, and everything was in the   blackest   darkness' (Bush, 2002).
  
  There are accounts of individuals who are given tours of both heaven and hell.   &nbsp;One is the   story of Arda Viraf, a 9th Century follower of the religion of the Magi who was   given  hensbane (a non-hallucinogenic drug) that put him in a coma for several days.   (Segal, 2004,  pp.195-196) The Magi had chosen him for this holy quest because of his   righteousness. &nbsp;He   awoke to tell of his tour of heaven and hell. &nbsp;The psychiatrist George Richie   (1998, pp.37-41) who had an NDE in 1943 tells of visiting hellish realms invisible but on the   earth-plane,   as well as tours of other realms where people were trapped because of their own   desires. &nbsp;All around these lost souls were Beings of Light just waiting to assist them out   of their hellish   state. &nbsp;During his NDE, Richie reports that he was given this tour by Jesus   Christ himself!
  
  Regarding mystical religious experiences, Merete Jakobsen (1999, p.52) notes   that evil  encounters are terminated when the person calls upon God or God's emissary,   usually   through prayer. &nbsp;
  
  Hell is for Rehabilitation and Is Not Eternal
  
  Is there a way out of hell? &nbsp;Most (but not all) religious experience   researchers think so. Both   Nancy Evans Bush (2002) and Barbara Rommer (2000, p. 27) note that these   negative  NDEs are for instruction and are thought to be a 'wake-up call' to those who   have them. &nbsp;This echoes the purpose of hellish experience as expressed in the Tibetan   Book of the   Dead (Evans-Wentz, pp. 28-68). &nbsp;
  
  Both the Northern Buddhist and Universalist Christian traditions have saviors (Amida   Buddha  and Jesus) who rescue people from hell (Vincent, 2005, p. 8). &nbsp;In the New   Testament book of   I Peter (3:18-20; 4:6, NRSV), it is stated that Jesus descended into hell after   his crucifixion  but before his resurrection: 'For Christ also suffered for sins once and for   all, the righteous   for the unrighteous in order to bring you to God. &nbsp;He was put to death in the   flesh, but made   alive in the spirit in which also he went and made a proclamation to the spirits   in prison, who   in former times did not obey.' &nbsp;'For this reason, the gospel was proclaimed even   to the   dead, so that though they had been judged in the flesh as everyone is, they   might live in the   spirit as God does.'
  
  It would seem from modern NDE accounts like some of those mentioned above; Jesus   is still   rescuing people from hell (Vincent, 2003). &nbsp;There is also an interesting 18th   Century   autobiographical NDE account by Dr. George deBenneville who died of a   'consumption-like'  illness and revived at his wake 42 hours later Vincent &amp; Morgan, 2006). &nbsp;He told   of seeing   angels rescuing people from hell, after they had repented.
  
  As in the Buddhist DBV above, the Amida Buddha stands ready to save any human   who  finds him or herself in hell if they call out to him as few as ten times (Nigosian,   2000, p.89). &nbsp;It  should be noted that in all of the Eastern religions, hell is not permanent but   is a method for   instruction. &nbsp;In the West, this was the view of the Christian church for its   first 500 years but   has become a minority view since that time (Hanson, 1899/2007, p. 139-141). &nbsp;In   Islam, there   are a few references in the Hadith to the view that hell is not permanent, but   this view is held  by only a few of the Sufis (Vincent, 2005, p. 12). &nbsp;
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  Only 150 years ago, scientific research into STEs began. &nbsp;The scientific   methods used to do  this research are the same as those used to research any other social or   biomedical   phenomena. &nbsp;We now know that, like positive STEs, negative STEs are widespread,   that  they occur in people who are normal and not mentally ill, and that they change   people's lives   for the better. &nbsp;While it may be too early to reach any final &nbsp;theological   conclusions from this   data, it would appear that there is a universal underpinning to the religions of   the world, that   humans are accountable for their actions, and that nothing good is ever lost.
  
  
  References:
  
  Baym, N. (Ed.) (1998) Norton Anthology of American Literature, Vol. 1. New   York: W. W.  Norton.
  
  Budge, E, A, W, (1967/1895) The Egyptian Book of the Dead. New York: Dover   Publications.
  
  Bush, N. E. (2002) Afterward: making meaning after a frightening near-death   experience.&nbsp;  Journal of Near-Death Studies, 21 (2), 99-133.
  
  Bush, N. E. (2006) Distressing Western NDEs: Research Summary. Paper presented   at the   IANDS Conference, M.D. Anderson Hospital, Houston (DVD available from: iands.com).
  
  Evans-Wentz, W. Y. (Ed.) (1957/11th century) The Tibetan Book of the Dead.   London:   Oxford University Press.
  
  Greyson, V. &amp; Bush, N.E. (1992) Distressing near-death experiences. Psychiatry,   55, 95-109.
  
  Hanson, J. W. (2007/1899) Universalism, the Prevailing Doctrine of the Church   for its First   500 Years. San Diego: St Alban Press.
  
  Hardy, A. (1997/1979) The Spiritual Nature of Man. Oxford: Religious Experience   Research   Centre.
  
  Jakobsen, M. D. (1999) Negative Spiritual Experiences. Lampeter, Wales:   Religious  Experience Research Centre.
  
  Masumian, F.C. (1995) Life After Death: A Study of the Afterlife in World   Religions. Oxford:  One World.
  
  McClenon, J. (1991) Near-Death folklore in medieval China and Japan: a   comparative  analysis. Asian Folklore Society, 50, 319-342.
  
  McClenon, J. (1994) Wondrous Events: Foundations of Religious Belief.   Philadelphia:&nbsp;  University of Pennsylvania Press.
  
  Nigosian, S.A. (2000) World Religion: A Historical Approach, 3Ed. Boston:   Bedford/ St.  Martin's
  
  Richie, G.G. (1998) Ordered to Return, My Life After Dying. Charlottesville, VA:   Hampton  Roads Publishing Co.
  
  Rommer, B.R. (2000) Blessing In Disguise. &nbsp;St.Paul, MN: &nbsp;Llewellyn.
  
  Segal, A. F. (2004) Life After Death: A History of the Afterlife in the   Religions of the West.&nbsp;  New York: Doubleday.
  
  Smith, H. (2000) Cleansing the Doors of Perception. New York: Jeremy P. Tarcher/Putnam.
  
  Vincent, K. R. (1994) Visions of God from the Near Death Experience. Burdett,   New York:   Larson Publications.
  
  Vincent, K.R. (1999) THE MAGI: From Zoroaster to the 'Three Wise Men'. &nbsp;North   Richland  Hills, TX: &nbsp;Bibal Press.
  
  Vincent, K.R. (2003) The near-death experience and Christian universalism.   Journal of Near-Death Studies, 22 (1), 57-71.
  
  Vincent, K. R. (2005) Magic, deeds, and universalism, afterlife in the world's   religions.&nbsp;  Universalist Herald, 156 (4), 5-8,12).
  
  Vincent, K. R. (2006) The Search for God and Afterlife in the Age of Science.   Paper   presented at the IANDS Conference, M.D. Anderson Hospital, Houston (CD available   from: 
  iands.com).
  
  Vincent, K. R. &amp; Morgan, J. (2006) An 18th century near-death experience: the   case of   George de Benneville. Journal of Near-Death Studies, 25 (1), 35-48.
  
  Yao, X &amp; Badham, P. (2007) Religious Experience in Contemporary China. Cardiff:   University  of Wales.
  
  
  Dr. Ken R. Vincent is the author of      The Golden   Thread: God's Promise of Universal Salvation     and   Visions of God From The Near Death Experience.               </body>  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/NDERF/Research/investigation_dark_side.htm