{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/NDERF\/Research\/Research_Overview_Right.htm","mytitle":"Research Overview","mylang":"de"}
      	                  Research Overview                          &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;NDERF and Other Notable NDE Research    
  Home Page  Current NDEs  Share NDE</span>     	</tr>    </table>    Click Here For The Concise Research Index

&nbsp;

 11/28/23  Evolution of the English Language, Nonfiction, Near Death Experience Book Genre Over the Past Fifty Years by Stephanie Bosco-Ruggiero ABSTRACT: This study looks at the evolution of the nonfiction English language near death experience (NDE) book genre over the past 50 years. The key research aim was to identify subgenres of NDE books to better understand how the epistemology of NDEs has been shaped by the popular literature. The study employed a qualitative methodology and was both inductive and deductive. World Cat and Library of Congress databases were used to identify printed and digital books, as well as textbooks, published on the NDE topic. Each book was coded to classify it within a specific subgenre. Findings showed that the largest subgenre of English language NDE books has been the experiencer account, whether written in an autobiographical or biographical format. Other large subgenres have included scientific investigations, religiously oriented books (especially Christian), and books exploring the personal aftereffects of NDEs. Subgenres that have emerged in recent decades include compilations of “lessons” from NDEs, books written by neuroscientists, and books written by medical practitioners about patient experiences. The author concludes that public knowledge about NDEs has been greatly shaped by experiencer accounts published in books. Furthermore, the emergence of new subgenres of NDE books, and the growth of others, signals ongoing change in the epistemology of the phenomenon. Reflexive practice was central to the development of the final manuscript. Reflexivity is seamlessly integrated throughout the paper and demonstrates how the author’s familiarity with the book genre, and the NDE subject in general, shaped the development and conduct of this study.

 11/26/21  Dr. Jeffrey Long entered an essay contest seeking the best evidence for the survival of consciousness after death.  (see BICS essay contest: https://www.bigelowinstitute.org/index.php/essay-contest/).  The BICS contest had an enormous amount of prize money, so it is not surprising that over 1000 essays were submitted by the leading thinkers in the world about life after death.  The distinguished panel of judges evaluating the BICS essays constituted one of the most stringent and scholarly peer-reviews conceivable.  Dr. Long was honored to be in the BICS contest runner-up group and won a $50,000 prize.  Attached is the winning essay.  NDERF believes this 25,000 word essay to be the most current and convincing evidence for the reality of near-death experiences and an afterlife available to the public.Review of the new NDE scale and how this affects NDERF categorization of experiences.

   A Review of The Near-Death Experience Content (NDE-C) scale: Development and psychometric validation by Jody Long Review of the new NDE scale and how this affects NDERF categorization of experiences.

   Near-death experience. Evidence for their reality. by Jeffrey P. Long, MD  Missouri Medicine. 2014 Sep-Oct;111(5):372-80.   ABSTRACT: Results from the largest near-death experience (NDE) study ever reported. Nine lines of evidence are presented for the reality of NDE. Article conclusion: “The combination of the preceding nine lines of evidence converges on the conclusion that near-death experiences are medically inexplicable. Any one or several of the nine lines of evidence would likely be reasonably convincing to many, but the combination of all of the presented nine lines of evidence provides powerful evidence that NDEs are, in a word, real.” Free PMC Article Available.

 The effects of Near Death Experiences on dreaming: A pilot study.  Art Funkhouser. C. G. Jung Institute, Küsnacht, Switzerland   International Journal of Dream Research   Volume XX, No. X (2021)   
    ABSTRACT: A Near Death Experience (NDE) often has a profound “aftereffect” on the individual, changing his or her world-view – often in a benefi cial way. The current pilot study is the fi rst to study the effects of NDEs on subsequent dream con-tents. Overall, 46 individuals completed an online questionnaire. The fi ndings indicate that NDEs resulted in signifi cantly a) more positive dreams, b) more vivid dreams, c) improved dream recall, d) an increased number of spiritual dreams, e) an increased interest in dreams, and f) an increased interest in the dreams of others; results that are consistent with the continuity hypothesis of dreaming. As the pilot study indicated that NDEs also have profound effects on the dream life of the individual, more in-depth studies are warranted.
    Keywords: Near Death Experiences, continuity hypothesis

 Study of Evidential After-Death Communications.  By Dr. Ken R. Vincent   De Numine Spring 2021   
    ABSTRACT: An after-death communication (ADC) is a spontaneous experience of communication with a deceased friend or family member.   This study examines 1667 cases on the After-death Communication Research Foundation website (www.adcrf.org).    A total of 336 (20.1%) were found to be evidential.  The three main categories of evidential ADCs and previous research are discussed.

 Characterization of near death experiences using text mining analyses: A preliminary study.  Vanessa Charland-Verville, Demetrius Ribeiro de Paula, Charlotte Martial, Helena Cassol, Georgios Antonopoulos, Blaine Alexander Chronik, Andrea Soddu, Steven Laureys.    2Plos One. 2020, 15(1): e0227402.   
    ABSTRACT: The notion that death represents a passing to an afterlife, where we are reunited with loved ones and live eternally in a utopian paradise, is common in the reports of people who have encountered a “Near-Death Experience” (NDE). NDEs are thoroughly portrayed by the media but empirical studies are rather recent. The definition of the phenomenon as well as the identification of NDE experiencers is still a matter of debate. To date, NDEs’ identification and description in studies have mostly derived from answered items in questionnaires. However, questionnaires’ content could be restricting and subject to personal interpretation. We believe that in addition to their use, user-independent statistical text examination of freely expressed NDEs narratives is of prior importance to help capture the phenomenology of such a subjective and complex phenomenon. Towards that aim, we included 158 participants with a firsthand retrospective narrative of their self-reported NDE that we analyzed using an automated text-mining method. The output revealed the top words expressed by experiencers. In a second step, a hierarchical clustering analysis was conducted to visualize the relationships between these words. It revealed three main clusters of features: visual perceptions, emotions and spatial components. We believe the user-independent and data-driven text mining approach used in this study is promising by contributing to the building a rigorous description and definition of NDEs.

  Near-death experiences and afterlife belief: A mixed-method analysis.  Nicole M. Lindsay and Natasha Tassell-Matamua.   Psychology of Religion and Spirituality. 2020. Advance online publication.    
  ABSTRACT: Following near-death experiences (NDEs) many people report a new or increased belief in life after death, yet this construct has never been specifically examined. In this mixed-method analysis, 105 persons who had experienced a life-threatening event and 69 participants who had never come close to death completed an online survey measuring beliefs about the “self” after death. Those who reported having an NDE during a life-threatening event were significantly more likely to believe in postmortem continuation, particularly the persistence of consciousness and individual identity beyond death. Eighteen people were also independently interviewed to explore the thematic form and psychological antecedents for any revised beliefs. Results were highly convergent with survey data and suggested the phenomenological characteristics of NDEs played an important role. These findings offer more systematic empirical evidence for the idea that NDEs foster certain types of postmortem beliefs.

  Burn survivors’ near-death Experiences: A qualitative examination.  David Royse and Karen Badger.  Omega, 2020, 80(3), 440-457.    
ABSTRACT: Persons who come close to death but survive catastrophic accidents sometimes report very vivid experiences during times when their survival was in doubt, when they were believed to be dead, and during resuscitation efforts. This qualitative study builds upon existing research on near-death experiences (NDEs) by focusing on the oral accounts from a sample of individuals with large and life-threatening burns. The NDE accounts were obtained from burn survivors attending the Phoenix Society’s World Burn Congress and are similar to reports by notable researchers ( Greyson, 2003 ; Moody, 1975 ; Ring, 1980 ) while reflecting the uniqueness of the individual survivor’s experiences. Six major themes are reported. Counselors and health professionals need to be aware of and educated about NDEs as these experiences can have profound effects upon the individual. Patients who have had NDEs may need to discuss them but fear professionals will reject their stories as being crazy.

  Closing the Medical Gap of Care for Patients Who Have Had a Near-Death Experience.  Lilia Samoilo and Diane Corcoran.  Narrative Inquiry in Bioethics, 2020, 10(1), 37-42.  
ABSTRACT:  This commentary discusses the twelve stories in which patients tell what happened when they were hospitalized and they had a near-death experience. The stories display a consistent theme of the gap in medical and spiritual care they received, after the patient’s near-death experience. This commentary explores the implications of this gap in care for these patients and the perceived medical professionals’ bias that occurs after these experiences, which can contribute to long-term consequences such as isolation and rejection. Education in medical schools and continuing education can provide medical professionals with insights needed to support individuals with near-death experiences.

11/30/19 Common Characteristics of Anomalous Perceptual Experiences | Julia Sellers</a> 
  ABSTRACT Integral Transpersonal Journal of arts, sciences and technologies, No. 13 November 2019 This paper presents phenomenology of out- of-body experiences (OBEs) occurring spontaneously or pathologically triggered as well as other types of anomalous perceptual experiences such as near- death- experiences (NDEs), temporal lobe irregularities, and ictal autoscopic phenomena (IAP). The paper further presents a brief overview of some of the OBEs studied in both the healthy and pathological populations, as well as anomalous perceptual experiences, with features common to OBEs, in the healthy population, as well as, pathological population.

2/3/20 God, Jesus and other Religious Beings   Home Page Current NDEs Share NDE  | Jack H Hiller</a> 
  A frequency analysis for a sample of NDE reports.     An analysis of the 62 most recently archived NDE reports on NDERF at ( https://www.nderf.org) was performed to develop a sample frequency estimate for experiencing God, Jesus, and other major religious figures.    </p>          Subjective time distortion during near-death experiences: an analysis of reports by Marc Wittmann,   Laura Neumaier, Renaud Evrard, Adrian Weibel, Ina Schmied-Knittel&nbsp; Zeitschrift für Anomalistik | Band 17 (2017) | S. 309–320   &nbsp; ABSTRACT:               Studies with individuals who have faced life-threatening situations show that a majority of them report an apparent slowing down of external time. Moreover, a majority of individuals who had near-death experiences (NDEs) reported that subjective time had changed. Anecdotal reports of NDEs reveal feelings of apparent timelessness, which is a typical feature of altered states of consciousness. However strongly the sense of time is changed in NDEs, not many systematic studies assessing exactly how time is altered during NDEs exist. Therefore, we conducted an empirical content analysis of a web-based databank from the Near Death Experience Research Foundation, which has collected NDE reports since 1998. To cover a considerable time range, we selected individual reports from three time periods: (a) 1998 to 2001, (b) the year 2010, and (c) January to March 2017 (in total N = 196). We concentrated on responses to the question: “Did time seem to speed up or slow down?” 127 of the 196 individuals reported a change in subjective time (65%). 120 of these 127 persons reported a feeling of timelessness (94%). The different narratives bear witness of individual variations, but they can still be interpreted as the impression of an apparently lost sense of the passage of time. Our study complements individual anecdotal reports showing an extremely distorted subjective time impression in a majority of people who suffered an NDE.         
  Key words: Near-death experience – subjective time – timelessness – online survey

                 	    	  Out-of-Body Experience: Review & a Case Study by Julia Sellers  	  Journal of Consciousness Exploration &amp; Research|   	  October 2017 | Volume 8 | Issue 9 | pp. 686-708&nbsp;    	  ABSTRACT: Out-of-body experiences in people with pathological conditions such as epilepsy have been studied by a fair amount of researchers to date. However, there is a severe lack of studies aimed at researching out-of-body experiences occurring in the non-pathological population. In article, I provide a review of the relevant literature and present a case of anomalous perception, in the form of autoscopic phenomena, of a healthy individual who reports experiencing massive out-ofbody experiences, spontaneously or at will, on a daily basis, since birth.  Keywords: out-of-body experience, altered consciousness, autoscopic phenomena, waking state, near death experience.

                  		  		Near-Death Experiences and Psychotherapy by Linda J. Griffith, MD  		Psychiatry (Edgmont). 2009 Oct; 6(10): 35–42. Published online 2009 Oct.   		ABSTRACT: Psychiatrists are likely to come into contact with patients   		who have had near-death experiences, who may have a variety of reactions   		to the experience, and who may benefit from psychotherapy. We may also   		have opportunities to work with individuals who are reacting to others   		who have had such experiences. There is much a psychiatrist can offer to   		these people, including listening respectfully, being nonjudgemental,   		normalizing the experience, providing education, and assisting with   		integrating the experience into their lives to develop or maintain the   		best possible functioning. Keywords: near-death experience(s),   		after-effects, psychotherapy for near-death experiences, psychiatric   		evaluation of near-death experiencers.

  		  		  		  		  		Near-death experiences and the temporal lobe. by Britton WB, Bootzin RR   		Psychol Sci. 2004 Apr;15(4):254-8.   		ABSTRACT: Many studies in humans   		suggest that altered temporal lobe functioning, especially functioning   		in the right temporal lobe, is involved in mystical and religious   		experiences. We investigated temporal lobe functioning in individuals   		who reported having transcendental &quot;near-death experiences&quot; during   		life-threatening events. These individuals were found to have more   		temporal lobe epileptiform electroencephalographic activity than control   		subjects and also reported significantly more temporal lobe epileptic   		symptoms. Contrary to predictions, epileptiform activity was nearly   		completely lateralized to the left hemisphere. The near-death experience   		was not associated with dysfunctional stress reactions such as   		dissociation, posttraumatic stress disorder, and substance abuse, but   		rather was associated with positive coping styles. Additional analyses   		revealed that near-death experiencers had altered sleep patterns,   		specifically, a shorter duration of sleep and delayed REM sleep relative   		to the control group. These results suggest that altered temporal lobe   		functioning may be involved in the near-death experience and that   		individuals who have had such experiences are physiologically distinct   		from the general population.

  		  		  		  		  		Varieties of near-death experience. by Bruce Greyson   		Psychiatry.   		1993 Nov;56(4):390-9.  ABSTRACT: Near-death experiences are profound   		subjective events frequently reported by individuals who have come close   		to death. They are of importance to mental health professionals, not   		only because they often happen to patients under our care, but because   		they have been reported to produce widespread and long-lasting changes   		in values, beliefs, and behavior that dramatically affect the   		experiencers&#39; attitudes toward living and dying (Bates and Stanley 1985;   		Bauer 1985; Flynn 1982; Greyson 1983b; Noyes 1980; Ring 1984). Several   		studies, including surveys of recently resuscitated hospitalized   		patients (Ring 1980; Sabom 1982) and a nationwide poll of the general   		population (Gallup and Proctor 1982) have estimated that near-death   		experiences are reported by 30%-40% of individuals who come close to   		death, or about 5% of the adult American population.

  		  		  		  		  		The divided self: near death experiences of resuscitated patients--a   		review of literature. by Cant R Int Emerg Nurs. 2012   		Apr;20(2):88-93. doi: 10.1016/j.ienj.2011.05.005. Epub 2011 Aug 5.   		ABSTRACT: This paper explores the prevalence of &#39;near death experience&#39;   		phenomena associated with a resuscitation event and examines the current   		state of evidence for causation. Patients&#39; reports of unusual   		recollections associated with a period of unconsciousness (perceived as   		approaching death) have fascinated individuals and the medical   		fraternity. Near death experiences (NDE) are reported in 4-9% of general   		community members and up to 23% of critical illness patients, although   		they can occur in healthy individuals who may think they are in peril.   		One explanation is that paranormal visions that include seeing bright   		lights, a tunnel and having feelings of peace may be a stage of   		enlightenment as death approaches. More objective explanations point to   		neuro-chemical changes in a stressed or dying brain as explanation for   		nearly all the elements of near death experience. However if this is so,   		NDE should occur in all patients who are critically ill and near death.   		In general, patients report positive psychological outcomes after a near   		death experience. Nurses can support patients during a time of crisis by   		assisting them and their families to comprehend the experiential event   		using effective communication and listening skill.

  		  		  		  		Incidence and correlates of near-death experiences in a cardiac care   		unit. by Bruce Greyson Gen Hosp Psychiatry. 2003   		Jul-Aug;25(4):269-76.  ABSTRACT: Near-death experiences, unusual   		experiences during a close brush with death, may precipitate pervasive   		attitudinal and behavior changes. The incidence and psychological   		correlates of such experiences, and their association with proximity to   		death, are unclear. We conducted a 30-month survey to identify   		near-death experiences in a tertiary care center cardiac inpatient   		service. In a consecutive sample of 1595 patients admitted to the   		cardiac inpatient service (mean age 63 years, 61% male), of whom 7% were   		admitted with cardiac arrest, patients who described near-death   		experiences were matched with comparison patients on diagnosis, gender,   		and age. Near-death experiences were reported by 10% of patients with   		cardiac arrest and 1% of other cardiac patients (P&lt;.001). Near-death   		experiencers were younger than other patients (P=.001), were more likely   		to have lost consciousness (P&lt;.001) and to report prior purportedly   		paranormal experiences (P=.009), and had greater approach-oriented death   		acceptance (P=.01). Near-death experiencers and comparison patients did   		not differ in sociodemographic variables, social support, quality of   		life, acceptance of their illness, cognitive function, capacity for   		physical activities, degree of cardiac dysfunction, objective proximity   		to death, or coronary prognosis.

  		  		  		  		Infrequent near death experiences in severe brain injury survivors - A   		quantitative and qualitative study. by Qin Huang   		Ann Indian Acad Neurol. 2013 Jan-Mar; 16(1): 75–81. doi:   		10.4103/0972-2327.107715

  		  		  		  		Near-Death-Like Experiences without Life-Threatening Conditions or Brain   		Disorders: A Hypothesis from a Case Report by Enrico Facco   		Front   		Psychol. 2012; 3: 490. Published online 2012 Nov 15. doi:   		10.3389/fpsyg.2012.00490  ABSTRACT: Near-death experiences (NDEs) are   		profound psychic experiences commonly occurring in life-threatening   		conditions. They include feeling a sense of peace, of seeing a bright   		light, encountering deceased relatives or religious figures, and of   		transcending space and time. To explain them, it has been suggested that   		they stem from brain disorders and/or psychological reactions to   		approaching death, a sort of wishful thinking in response to the   		perceived threat. This is a report on a case with most of the features   		typical of NDEs except that it occurred entirely without any   		life-threatening conditions. This evidence is theoretically incompatible   		with either of the above hypotheses, suggesting that a broader   		interpretation of the phenomenon is needed. Keywords: death studies,   		body–mind problem, consciousness         Physician Views and Response to Patients' Near-Death Experience (NDE)   Dr. Jeff, M.D., Judith Boss , Ph.D. 1/27/02      This study is a survey of the medical staff of a single large institution regarding physician views and responses to patients’ near-death experience (NDE).  A survey of this type has not been previously reported.  An Internet survey form was developed containing three demographic questions and 18 questions pertinent to NDE (www.rooj.com/survey.htm).  Notice of this voluntary survey was e-mailed to the attention of approximately 550 physicians and chiropractors on the faculty of Brown University School of Medicine      

       A Review of The Lancet Article    by Jody  3/6/02.  The is the largest prospective study of NDErs and published in a major British medical journal, the Lancet.  The 8-year old study involved 344 consecutive cardiac arrest patients who died and were subsequently resuscitated.   
Near Death Experience In Survivors of Cardiac Arrest: A Prospective Study in the Netherlands, Pim van Lommel, et al, THE LANCET • Vol 358 • December 15, 2001 ,  2039-45.   

      A Review of Swiss OBE Study    by Jody A. Long 9/25/02.  On September 19, 2002, the British journal “Nature” published a conservative study with findings allegedly relevant to the out of body state.[1]  The study was led by a Swiss Doctor, Olaf Blanke, and reminiscent of Wilder Penfield’s earlier work started in 1942 where electrical stimulation to various parts of the brain would produce memory recollections

                  In order to   		understand NDEs,  the first thing is to understand 1) what part of the   		experience is 100% NDE, and: &nbsp;2) what is integrated into our waking   		reality.&nbsp; I discussed this in the research paper &#39;Dreams,   		NDE, and Reality.&#39;&nbsp; Remember, this is a co-created   		experience with the person and the divine (Jeff&#39;s theory and I concur).&nbsp;   		I enjoyed the latest NDE as the woman was reminded in her NDE that this   		world is an illusion.&nbsp; We are not our physical body at all.&nbsp;   		The research writing on &#39;NDE   		and the Fourth Dimension&#39; will show you the nature of the   		soul and help you conceptualize who (or what) we really are. &nbsp;The writing on the          soul&#39;s purpose           gives you an idea of why we come to earth.&nbsp; With these three papers   		as a backdrop, you can understand that the Near Death Experience is   		tailored to each individual according to the needs and understandings of   		that particular individual in order to maximize soul growth.&nbsp; Since   		we are all so unique, it is not surprising that the NDE itself is very   		unique to each individual.&nbsp; However, there are stunning patterns in   		the NDE that make it uniquely reproducible and appropriate for   		scientific study.

        	          Sam Parnia&#39;s new AWARE Study  is out! &nbsp;  		http://on.rt.com/t7gphk   		You can find the entire   		article at:   		  		www.elsevier.com/locate/resuscitation

                        What   		is the meaning of the NDE and is it for the experiencer or for us all?  		By Jody 10/9/05 &nbsp;           This paper was presented in   		an&nbsp; abbreviated form at the 2005 IANDS annual meeting in Virginia   		Beach, VA.&nbsp; I was fascinated by a book called &quot;Emotional   		Intelligence&quot; by Daniel Goleman.&nbsp; I applied many of the emotional   		concepts to the meaning of NDE for the individual and for us all.&nbsp;   		The resultant insights add another dimension to our understanding of the   		power of the NDE message.

                        First   		International Medical Conference  on the NDE  		held in  France June 17, 2006. &nbsp;   		Click here for more information.

        Penny   		Sartori, PhD          	This is a 5 year   		prospective Welsh study out of the UK to explore if anoxia, hypercarbia   		or drug administration could explain the NDE.&nbsp; The conclusion of   		the study is that the NDE still remains medically inexplicable.

                                Dreams,   		Near-Death Experiences, and Reality by Jody 3/27/03.   		This is a review of literature and dream studies combined with a   		retrospective study of near-death experiencers (NDErs) who were asked   		&quot;if their experience was dreamlike in any way?&quot;&nbsp; This paper gives   		an overview of consciousness and altered states of consciousness as it   		relates to memories, recall, and narrative of experiences.&nbsp; Then I   		compare and contrast NDEs with dreams against the backdrop of reality.&nbsp;   		               		                        
                 
                   		  		  		  		An   		In-Depth Study of Drowning Near-Death Experiencers  		by Jody 3/2/03. &nbsp;   		This is a retrospective study of near-death experiencers who died from   		drowning.&nbsp; The main question was whether the cause of death   		affected the experience in any way.&nbsp; Comparisons were done between   		drowning and cardiac arrest victims and then cross-compared with a   		population of general NDEs. Since almost 70% of the drowning victims   		were children, age was also explored as a factor.&nbsp; The data   		suggests that there is a statistically significant difference in the NDE   		according to the type of death one experiences.&nbsp;

                        A   		Reply to Shermer, Medical Evidence for NDEs, by Dr. Pim van Lommel  		In his &quot;Skeptic&quot; column in Scientific American in March, 2003, Michael   		Shermer cited a research study published in The Lancet, a leading   		medical journal, by Pim van Lommel and colleagues. He asserted this   		study &quot;delivered a blow&quot; to the idea that the mind and the brain could   		separate. Yet the researchers argued the exact opposite, and showed that   		conscious experience outside the body took place during a period of   		clinical death when the brain was flatlined. As Jay Ingram, of the   		Canadian Discovery Channel, commented: &quot;His use of this study to bolster   		his point is bogus. He could have said, &#39;The authors think there&#39;s a   		mystery, but I choose to interpret their findings differently&#39;. But he   		didn&#39;t. I find that very disappointing&quot; (Toronto Star, March 16, 2003).   		Here, Pim van Lommel sets out the evidence that Shermer misrepresented.

                        Scientists Claim that Quantum Theory Proves Consciousness Moves to Another Universe   		at Death

        Attitudes   		Toward Near-Death Experiences, by Benjamin M. Linzmeier   		A history of relatively recent   		NDE public recognition and attitudes resulting therefrom.

                        This   		is an interesting article &nbsp; 2/18/12   		&nbsp;- if you think about light from a dark room,   		you actually have measurable light coming from the right side of the   		head. From studying NDE, our spirit is light. Prayer has been described   		from the other side as light emanating from earth. Perhaps this light we   		emit from thought could be a physical way that we connect with our   		higher selves and with God through space and time? 
  		B.T. Dotta, K.S. Saroka, M.A. Persinger, Increased photon emission from   		the head while imagining light in the dark is correlated with changes in   		electroencephalographic power: Support for B&#39;okkon&#39;s Biophoton   		Hypothesis, Neuroscience Letters (2010), doi:10.1016/ j.neulet.2012.02.021  		   

    		  		THE   (NEAR-) DEATH DECODED  by Drs.   		Maureen Venselaar &nbsp; This article describes a   complete new and astonishing theory about the near-death experience - based on   astrophysics -&nbsp; which includes ten new features  .

  		Noor   		Foundation - The discussion took place in  Dec. 2013.   		Dr. Sam   		Parnia, Dr. Mary Neal, Dr. Peter Fenwick and Kevin Nelson were   		discussing NDE&#39;s and OBE&#39;s.

  		Incidence   		and Causes of the Near-Death Experience and Life Review Among   		the Elderly and Non-Elderly,   		by Benjamin M. Linzmeier 
  		One-hundred and seven elderly   		and non-elderly participants were recruited from the university setting   		and the senior setting. Questionnaires were filled out which examined   		the near-death experience (NDE) and life review. A Fisher exact test   		indicated no significant differences in the incidence of the NDE between   		the elderly and non-elderly. A small sample size did not allow for a   		statistical analysis of the incidence of the life review and the rate of   		onset of the NDE among the elderly and non-elderly. However, tentative   		speculation was made about the eight reported NDEs. In future research,   		either a recruiting method should be employed or a larger sample should   		be drawn.

              		Dreams   		and Neuroholography: An Interdisciplinary Interpretation of Development   		of Homeotherm State in Evolution, by Istv&#39;n B&#39;kkon,   		Sleep and Hypnosis, 2005;7(2):61-76&nbsp; Review by Jody 1/15/06 &nbsp;   		The last time I got this excited to see a paper published was when von   		Lommel published his incredible longitudinal NDE study in December 2001.&nbsp;   		This PhD study is well worth the read!&nbsp;

                      Near-Death   		Experiences of Children  		&nbsp;4/16/14 by Jeffrey Long MD.

    How   Many NDEs Occur in the United States Every Day?  The   answer is 774           NDEs occurring daily in the United States. &nbsp;    Click here for methodology

    Dr. near-death: Greyson's   heart-stopping study, interview with Dr. Bruce Greyson,   09/2004 
  
           </b>             Near           Death Experience, Religion and Spirituality    ,    by Jody 12/11/02 &nbsp; One of the last   frontiers of study surrounds spirituality and NDE.&nbsp; However, this is a   highly sensitive issue due to the nature of religion.&nbsp; What this study   attempts to do is to objectively look at the data submitted by NDErs to the   website and to categorize the answers.&nbsp; Questions that are analyzed include   pre and post NDE religious preference, and changed beliefs.&nbsp; There are some   surprising results that focus on universal purpose and order gained from NDE   understandings. 
		      
  	              </b>        Healing           and Paranormal Gifts: Survey Results Between NDErs and non-NDErs    ,&nbsp;    by Jody 12/23/02 &nbsp;     First of all I&#39;d like to thank everyone who participated in this HUGE study.&nbsp;   We had 124 NDErs and 75 non-NDErs who participated in the survey. Without your   help, we would never have such startling results to report on! The healing questions pertained to the meaning of   healing, whether the participant had experienced any emotional or healing gifts   and whether the timing of these gifts was before or after their NDE or other   paranormal experience.&nbsp; They were also asked if they had healed anyone, and   if so to explain or give examples.&nbsp; Past studies are reviewed.&nbsp;   Present tension between medicine and alternative healing is explored.&nbsp; The   main finding of this study is that healing and evidentiality of alternative   healing depends on how a person views &quot;healing.&quot;&nbsp; Most of the time the way   a person views healing is part of a larger belief system rather than a   compartmentalized body of knowledge about the physical body.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;         

        The   		Fourth Dimension and NDEs        </O:P>, by Jody 11/25/02 &nbsp;  		From near death   		experience research, a model that fits the data is that consciousness   		(synonymous to soul) is a fourth dimensional construct.&nbsp; This concept   		necessarily affects the way we view time and how we integrate   		consciousness with our three dimensional, earth reality.&nbsp; Our science,   		religion, and society are all affected by how we perceive our earth   		reality.&nbsp; This paper attempts to explain the fourth dimension by   		analogizing to one, two, and three dimensional concepts to what NDErs   		are telling us about their fourth dimensional experiences. 
        
            Review   		of New Swiss Study on OBEs, by Jody 9/25/02 &nbsp;  		The study was published in the British   		journal Nature on 9/19/02.&nbsp; Several media articles were published based   		upon this study.&nbsp; This article takes a look at: 1) the study, 2) the   		media coverage, and 3) critical discussion of both, the study and the   		media.&nbsp;           
      		
        A   		Note on Science and NDE,   		3/8/02 Why Memory Cannot be entirely processed in the brain.   		An awesome   		article by Simon Berkovich, Professor of Engineering and   		Applied Science at the George Washington University that presents a scientific model why memory (aka   		consciousness) cannot reside solely in the brain.&nbsp; 

                A   		Comparison of NDEs Occurring Before and After 1975 Results from a Web   		Survey of Near Death Experiencers.  		by Dr. Jeff 5/18/02  &nbsp;The   		1975 publication of Life after Life (Moody, 1975) led to wide public   		recognition of near death experience (NDE).&nbsp; No prior study has   		investigated the similarities and differences of NDEs occurring before   		and after 1975.&nbsp; Much of the earliest NDE research, in the late 1970&#39;s   		and early 1980&#39;s, would have studied NDEs occurring predominantly before   		1975.&nbsp; If the content and aftereffects of NDEs remained constant before   		and after 1975, this earliest NDE research may be considered applicable   		to NDEs occurring more recently.&nbsp; This study uses the methodology of an   		Internet based questionnaire survey which has not been previously   		reported.&nbsp; A total of 218 NDErs were surveyed.&nbsp; The only statistical   		differences between the group with NDEs before 1975 (n=48) compared with   		the group with NDEs during or after 1975 (n=170) were due to expected   		differences in NDEr age at the time of the NDE, and age currently.&nbsp; No   		other significant difference was found between these two groups with   		regard to NDE demographics, experience elements, or aftereffects   		studied.

  		      		  Giovanni&#39;s Research&nbsp;     Here is an excel table of 50 NDEs from video/TV sources with 23 data     points.

Dr. Jeff, NDERF&nbsp;    12/16/01  We became aware of a prospective   	study of NDE (Near-Death Experience) some months ago from Denmark. It is my   	understanding that this study (by Pim van Lommel, lead author) is scheduled   	for publication in The Lancet 12/15/01. The Lancet is the most prestigious   	European medical journal. Briefly, this study involved prospective study of   	344 cardiac arrest patients. 62 had a NDE, and of these, 41 had a deep NDE.   	Patients having a NDE and those not having a NDE were followed for up to 8   	years. This article concludes NDE is medically inexplicable, and found NDErs   	had a statistically reduced fear of death and much increased belief in an   	afterlife, among other findings. In my opinion, this article is one of the   	strongest medical studies ever published with evidence of consciousness   	surviving death, and validating retrospective studies of NDE.&nbsp; Click   	for this article&#39;s         Press Release.&nbsp;
        

      Soulmate Study Part 1: Soulmates   and Consciousness  by   Jody 11/9/02 &nbsp; As a bit of   background, at the IANDS annual conference in 2000, Dr. Jeff Long and I gave a   presentation on our research findings regarding soulmates.&nbsp; I recently   started to write up the presentation.&nbsp; One of the main questions I wanted   to find out is if, by including the new data, the results of the study would   still hold.&nbsp; It turned out that we had over two times the data as when we   started.&nbsp; Every question analyzed had such a wealth of information   contained in each sub-category that it was impossible to just write- up the   Soulmate presentation.&nbsp; Therefore, I have chosen to write a series of   papers based upon the new data and then write a culmination paper on soulmate   understandings and incorporating findings of the separate papers. 

    		Soulmate Study Part 2: Another   		Look at Beings Encountered During the Near Death Experience   		   		by Jody 11/25/02 &nbsp; It is a common element,   		unique to the NDEs experience, to report seeing deceased beings.&nbsp;   		Frequently, those seen on the other side are religious beings or   		deceased relatives.&nbsp; This study analyzes the beings that were seen   		on the other side.&nbsp; The datum is broken down into the categories of   		familiar beings and unfamiliar beings.&nbsp;&nbsp; Of the 302 people who   		responded to the survey, 29% (88) saw familiar beings and 25.8% (78) saw   		unfamiliar beings.&nbsp; Of the 166 people who saw beings, 53% saw   		familiar beings, while 47% saw unfamiliar beings.&nbsp; The highest   		percentage of familiar beings seen were blood relatives (25.9%),   		followed by religious figures (22.9%).&nbsp; Implications are discussed   		against the backdrop of consciousness and the Soulmate myth of popular   		culture.  		 

          Soulmate Study Part 3: Emotions   and the Near-Death Experience &nbsp; by Jody 2/5/03  &nbsp;This        study is a retrospective review of 318 NDErs   responses to questions about emotions during and after the NDE, and about   relationships after the NDE.&nbsp; Emotions are a common denominator between the   physical reality and what is experienced on the other side.&nbsp; The top emotions   that are experienced during the NDE are peace, love, and happiness.&nbsp; However,   the top emotion that is experienced upon return to the body is confusion.&nbsp; This   paper looks at the role of emotions during and after the NDE and the role that   emotions play in our earthly life.&nbsp;         

              Soulmate Study Part 4: Life   Review, Changed Beliefs, Universal Order and Purpose, and the Near-Death   Experience         by Jody 2/13/03 &nbsp; This   study is a retrospective review of 319 NDErs responses to questions about the   near-death experience and the life review, changed beliefs, life changes, and   universal order/purpose. &nbsp;From the chi square test, all of these factors highly   correlate with each other and make more sense when studied as a group.&nbsp; This   paper looks at the role of the life review in helping to understand universal   purpose and subsequently the changes that people undergo after their   experience.&nbsp;  

              	Soulmate Study Part 5: Soulmates   		2003          by Jody 2/13/03 &nbsp; This is the culmination   		study that discusses the findings of the other 4         Soulmate studies on consciousness, beings, relationships, emotions,   		universal purpose, changed beliefs, and the life review.                                

    
     Index of Research Articles
         Out-of-Body Experience: Review & a Case Study by Julia Sellers
       Near-Death Experiences and Psychotherapy by Linda J. Griffith, MD
     Near-death experiences and the temporal lobe. by Britton WB, Bootzin RR
     Varieties of near-death experience. by Bruce Greyson
     The divided self: near death experiences of resuscitated patients--a review of literature. by Cant R
     Incidence and correlates of near-death experiences in a cardiac care unit. by Bruce Greyson
     Infrequent near death experiences in severe brain injury survivors - A quantitative and qualitative study. by Qin Huang
     Near-Death-Like Experiences without Life-Threatening Conditions or Brain Disorders: A Hypothesis from a Case Report by Enrico Facco
          Physician Views and Response to Patients' Near-Death Experience (NDE) Dr. Jeff, M.D., Judith Boss , Ph.D.   
      A Review of The Lancet Article by Jody   
      A Review of Swiss OBE Study by Jody A. Long   
     In order to understand NDEs
     Sam Parnia's new AWARE Study
     What is the meaning of the NDE and is it for the experiencer or for us all?   
     First International Medical Conference on the NDE
     Five year prospective Welsh study
     Dreams, Near-Death Experiences, and Reality by Jody
     An In-Depth Study of Drowning Near-Death Experiencers by Jody
     A Reply to Shermer, Medical Evidence for NDEs, by Dr. Pim van Lommel
     Scientists Claim that Quantum Theory Proves Consciousness Moves to Another Universe at Death
     Attitudes Toward Near-Death Experiences, by Benjamin M. Linzmeier
          Increased photon emission from the head while imagining light in the dark is correlated with changes in electroencephalographic power...
         THE (NEAR-) DEATH DECODED by Drs. Maureen Venselaar
     Noor Foundation  discussion
     Incidence and Causes of the Near-Death Experience and Life Review Among the Elderly and Non-Elderly, by Benjamin M. Linzmeier
     Dreams and Neuroholography: An Interdisciplinary Interpretation of Development of Homeotherm State in Evolution, by Istv'n B'kkon
     Near-Death Experiences of Children by Jeffrey Long MD.
     Ketamine  
         How Many NDEs Occur in the United States Every Day?
     Dr. near-death: Greyson's heart-stopping study,
     Near Death Experience, Religion and Spirituality, by Jody
         Healing and Paranormal Gifts: Survey Results Between NDErs and non-NDErs,  by Jody
         The Fourth Dimension and NDEs, by Jody
         Review of New Swiss Study on OBEs, by Jody
     A Note on Science and NDE,
     A Comparison of NDEs Occurring Before and After 1975 Results from a Web Survey of Near Death Experiencers. by Dr. Jeff   
     Giovanni's Research 
     Prospective study of NDE from Denmark
    
         Soulmate Study Part 1: Soulmates and Consciousness
     Soulmate Study Part 2: Another Look at Beings Encountered During the Near Death Experience
     Soulmate Study Part 3: Emotions and the Near-Death Experience
         Soulmate Study Part 4: Life Review, Changed Beliefs, Universal Order and Purpose, and the Near-Death Experience
     Soulmate Study Part 5: Soulmates 2003

      
        
      &nbsp;&nbsp; Near Death Experience Research Foundation &nbsp;&nbsp; 
      ©1998-2023 Experience Research Foundation (NDERF) All rights reserved. 
            

[1] https://www.nderf.org/NDERF/Research/Research_Overview_Right.htm