{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/NDERF\/Soulmates\/twin_flames_cougar.htm","mytitle":"Twin Flames Vision by Cougar","mylang":"de"}
          	Twin Flames Vision by Cougar                     	            		

          Twin Flames Vision  </font>  		  		          by Cougar&nbsp;   cougar@webvizion.net   </b></span>   
  Home Page  Current NDEs  Share NDE</span>     	</tr>

  SYNOPSIS:

&nbsp;In The First Moment   After Forever, The ONE split forth into the dual power of male and female, what   some religions may see as Adam and Eve and what some may see as the   Mother/Father God. Time begins.
  
  In The Second Moment After Forever, the God(dess) brings forth into expanding   space almost infinite Seedlings originally from The One Soul.
  
  In The Third Moment After Forever, the Matrix is created from the elements of   Light and Dark. The Tibetans called this Matrix The Light Web of Life. The   Native Americans call this The Web of Life.
  
  In The Fourth Moment After Forever, Mind/Thought was created. Soul descended and   was wrapped in a sheath or light body, the Mind/thought body.
  
  In The Fifth Moment After Forever, Empathy and emotions were created. Soul   descended and was wrapped in this empathy/emotional sheath also.
  
  In The Sixth Moment After Forever, the Earth was created and Soul came down and   was sheathed in a physical body.
  
  In The Seventh Moment After Forever, I rest my case and my pen!!! Whew!
  
  In The Disappearance Of The Universe, which is heavily based on The Course In   Miracles, Gary Renard (I call him Saint Bernard in jest, a hound after God) :)   repeats claims that God did not create the Universe; that WE created the   Universe, so even though I could not resist the Sacred Biblical pun on the   Seventh Moment (It fell right into my lap! Honest!) :) my Seventh Moment does   bring up a major issue for discussion on our true relationship with God.
  (Finished 28 May 2005)
  
  Love &amp; Light, Cougar

  THE REVELATION:

  I came out of a core shaking Dream   Vision at 4:33 this morning!

  I have always imagined the Big Bang from   the perspective of being an outside observer looking toward the center, seeing   the explosion and then the wave of energy and mass expanding ever outward   creating a sphere (or egg) of time and space.
  
  This morning was different. I was given a Dream Vision in which instead of being   a witness outside Creation, I was a direct participant in it, as we all were! I   witnessed how we became Creation. I witnessed how we then took part in our   immediately continuing Creation and how we tried at first to contain the fire   that spread out everywhere and in failing in this endeavor, moved with it in a   completely natural fashion!!! It was beautiful and electrifying! I am vibrating   strongly now! My entire bedroom is vibrant with energy as I try to ignore it and   concentrate on my writing before I forget! I came out of the Dream Vision before   we created too much History/Herstory so I would not lose the important beginning   but I am losing some of the Divine Reason's behind it.

  Everything was right there at the   Beginning! If we can go back and continue reliving this moment, we can retrieve   it all! I find myself oooing and ahhhing out loud! Total memory of Creation   almost stayed with me! ....... (Later) It is 4:44am when I finish the whirlwind   of my jotted notes striking the paper with concentrated purpose.
  
  My first challenge right now is knowing that just by putting this wisdom into   any kind of words is changing this spatially expanding experience into a   one-thought-at-a-time linear experience. Also, any description of my observed   surroundings is very limiting toward the true sense of what that reality IS.   But, we gotta do what we gotta do, so here goes nothing (or everything :).
  
  In The Beginning was the VOID, before thought, before mind, before time was   created and before any physicality.

  In The Beginning there was Great Divine   LOVE in that Void. Consciousness was totally immersed in that Great Divine Love   in the Void.  Our Consciousness. One Consciousness.
  
  Actually, this state existed before our understanding of The Beginning in a   place called Eternity. Also, this IS before The Beginning. Eternity is NOW and   always IS. Eternity IS after The End as well, beyond the Alpha and the Omega.   The smoky vapor of Duality intentionally clouds our eyes from perceiving   Eternity most of the time.
  
  The VOID is not Nothingness. The Void is not empty, nor is it full. It is a   spacious state of BEING beyond time and number. The VOID is not a scary place.   My limited mind likes to think it is closest described as, &quot;No mind, all heart.&quot;   It is closest to the heart of the deepest meditation.
  
  There is also something behind the Void, but that is another tale for another   time once we have taken full ownership of our latent Divinity. How may we even   speak of this Reality beyond the Void if we don't even understand The Void yet?   I only suggest it now as a promise of something more. This is our Second Great   Promise because we are ever growing.
  
  In The Beginning we were all one in that Divine Love, but that was not enough.   There was a promise! We were sent out all at once to fulfill that First Great   Promise. The flood gates were opened. All of the above Eternity that we lived   and dwelled in became a remote memory during the first immediate moment created   by that Divinity. Remember, there was no mind (created) yet. There was only   LOVE. There had been no Separation between us, until now.
  
  In that First Moment After Forever, The Mother/Father God was created in the   pouring out split of Eternal Divinity into Temporal Duality. The Vast Eternal   Ocean of Love spills out into two streams, creating Duality.
  
  I became aware of myself in a beautiful shop full of carvings and sculptures and   designs. I was also simultaneously aware that I was all men and Cougar at the   same time. There was a beautiful woman in the shop who was all women and inside   her there was a woman I knew as Kamilah who was the caretaker of the shop. I   knew she was me and I wanted to reach out to touch that part of me that had been   separated from me. In the mere action of reaching out for her, the shop caught   fire. I guess you can say that our desire for each other in this new realm was   inherently explosive. We had been closer than close. We had been One. In The   First Moment she had been taken away from me and now all I wanted to do was to   protect her and the shop from the fire that started to spread.
  
  In The Second Moment After Forever, I discovered the fire seeped into every   crack and design. It could not be stopped by my will as was once naturally   expected since we were emerging away from the source of our Power! I   simultaneously saw ourselves being spit up into many many candles of light, male   and female. We were becoming Individual Souls. We had tried to stop this fire we   had felt was an accident. It was no accident, but we had no memory to remember   that. We were only trying to protect ourselves and this beautiful shop. We had   been One and now we must split; and yet still desire to keep some semblance of   being One.
  
  In The Third Moment After Forever, we saw the fire could not be contained by our   will, so I focused my energy onto a wall of the shop and created a Matrix out of   the Light and Dark which was given to us in the shop. As I did this, I saw the   others do this as well. We were falling apart (expanding) rapidly into multiple   directions and this Matrix did contain the fire in a sense: The Matrix was   becoming the 3 dimensional fabric of the Universe that also contained the fire.
  
  In The Fourth Moment After Forever, we realized we were splitting into almost   infinite numbers and into almost infinite directions. We were compelled not to   split, yet we were also compelled to split. Thus the twin laws of gravity and   expansion were recognized. We were discovering our now dual nature. There was no   stopping it. So we acted in Creation to maintain some kind of order and we   &quot;ordered&quot; things at each level as we came down into further separation. We   attached ourselves to the Matrix and now were connected by those cords of Light   and Dark. We watched ourselves become shadow with light around our shells and   lightness inside us as well. In this moment we created Thought, but saw Thought   was separating us as well. We solved that dilemma by creating and connecting   with deep empathy through the Web Of Life, the Matrix. Now came the time when   things would be thought and understood with the mind that was created. The high   level of God-ness slipped away from us very quickly. We had been compelled to   form thought to protect our naked Souls and to preserve our consciousness as   individuals as we fell into the Matrix united with empathy. Perhaps this is the   source from where the diluted Story of The Fall came, with the Tree of Knowledge   of Good and Evil (or duality).
  
  I came out of the Visionary State at this point, as to not get lost in thought,   quite literally! I came out of The Dreaming and back into this world (our dream)   and found myself in bed. This experience was amazing! It IS amazing!!! We   were/are all in this creation together and we all beheld profound joy in this   process. We were working exactly in line with Divine Will! We were not cast out   for doing anything wrong! We were guided into it by the Most Profound Divine   Love for our future growth into becoming more than we ever were! How things get   so twisted while we and the planet travel through time and space and the rise   and fall of many civilizations. Only true Visionary States guided by Higher   Power can bring us back to the Truth about us! To heal us! To make us Whole. To   eventually make us ONE again. Then we will be ready for the adventure of The   Second Great Promise!
  
     To recap:
  
     In The First Moment After Forever, The   ONE split forth into the dual power of male and female, what some religions may   see as Adam and Eve and what some may see as the Mother/Father God. Time begins.
  
  In The Second Moment After Forever, the God/dess brings forth into expanding   space almost infinite Seedlings originally from The One Soul.
  
  In The Third Moment After Forever, the Matrix is created from the elements of   Light and Dark. The Tibetans called this Matrix The Light Web of Life. The   Native Americans call this The Web of Life.
  
  In The Fourth Moment After Forever, Mind/Thought was created. Soul descended and   was wrapped in a sheath or light body, the Mind/thought body.
  
  In The Fifth Moment After Forever, Empathy and emotions were created. Soul   descended and was wrapped in this empathy/emotional sheath also.
  
  In The Sixth Moment After Forever, the Earth was created and Soul came down and   was sheathed in a physical body.
  
  In The Seventh Moment After Forever, I rest my case and my pen!!! Whew!
  
  
  Love &amp; Light, Cougar </body>  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/NDERF/Soulmates/twin_flames_cougar.htm