{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/NDERF\/Soulmates\/rich_martina_smr.htm","mytitle":"Rich & Martina's SMR  E072706","mylang":"de"}
          	Rich & Martina's SMR  E072706                     	            		

          Rich & Martina's SMR</b>    
  Home Page  Current NDEs  Share NDE</span>     	</tr>

My name is Rich and I would like to share my story of my twin   flame. I feel compelled to tell my story through reading some of the contributions on this site and I am grateful that there are still other people in this world who can share somewhat similar feelings of a soulmate as my twin flame.&nbsp; There was a story I heard once in Ancient Greek Mythology about how people are all just broken   halves of circles that struggle aimlessly through life without any direction, but in some circumstances, one broken half runs into another half that is identical to it. Once they are fused together they travel everywhere as one with purpose, direction and remarkable speed. I believe this to be true and anyone that shares a soulmate/twin flame connection with anyone can understand that anything experienced before meeting your soulmate can't really be considered a fulfilling   life. I knew somewhere in the depths of my soul for my entire life that I had been missing something inside of me. I never realized the depth of this spiritual separation until I fell in love with the woman of my dreams, Martina. I was always told growing up that true love wasn't something that you could go looking for or create for yourself, that it was more something that found YOU and created you.
  
  When I look back on the first moment that I laid eyes on her, even then I knew the connection we had. My eyes followed her every movement across the room, the way she walked, the way she dressed, the way she twirled her hair with her fingers, the smile she made towards anyone who would happen to be talking to her. When I first saw her I didn't feel like I was just looking at her physical appearance but rather into the depths of her soul, somehow I could see through her and in   essence feel her. Over a few days I had discovered that she was in a large majority of my classes in University but I lacked the courage to approach her at school. Several weeks had   passed by and I had yet to run into her but I actively pursued her, trying to figure out local hot spots that she would go to until one night I saw her at one of the local clubs. I was driven by a feeling I had never felt before that motivated me and without hesitation I approached her and began to explain who I was and how exquisitely beautiful she was. We engaged in a conversation mostly composed of laughter with an openness and a friendliness that I couldn't possibly begin to describe. My eyes were locked into hers and I instantly knew this was something bigger than I'd ever felt before. When I was saying goodbye to her that night, I went to give her a hug and she kissed me on the cheek and a surge of emotion shot through my entire body giving me chills of passion.
  
  After later exchanging phone numbers and emails, the following few months we found ourselves talking every day and night, sometimes into the early hours of the morning and exceeding lengths of seven hours, without ever going out on a date. This time spent enabled us to learn absolutely everything about each other because there was absolutely nothing we didn't talk   about. One of the most craziest things about discovering your twin flame soulmate is how much alike they are to you. Not just in liking the same things, but rather in the way you think. The amount of times that we say things at the exact same time are countless. Our minds seem to be in complete tune with each other to the point of predicting what each other is going to say in a given situation or circumstance.
  
  They say that &quot;True love is the soul's recognition of its counterpoint in another&quot; and I could not believe that to be more true with Martina. The love I share with her is   incomparable to any other in this world. It seems that every single person around us simply can't understand how completely in love we are and how perfect we are for each other. It doesn't seem that our parents, relatives, friends, peers, anyone has experienced a love so deep and strong. However, this does not discourage us, we are more passionate than ever because we use this to take us higher than the average couple or relationship. Its nice to know that there are other people out there who share the same views as we do.
  
  I feel not only that we are soulmates but ultimately one soul. I love her more than any one man could love another woman, she is my everything, she consumes me and completes me. I am grateful for every moment spent with her and I look forward to our life together with assurance that we will be together forever and an understanding of what it truly means to be a soulmate in love.
  &nbsp;    </body>  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/NDERF/Soulmates/rich_martina_smr.htm