{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/NDERF\/Soulmates\/lisa_r_smr.htm","mytitle":"Lisa R SMR E012908","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lisa R SMR E012908                     	            		

          Lisa R SMR </font></b></span>   
  Home Page  Current NDEs  Share NDE</span>     	</tr>          	&nbsp;  Dedicated to the man who is my   	everything.   	My Soul Mate  	The man I will soon   	wed.  	  	Heaven only knows where I should start. If I could pour my heart out into   	words about Michael, there wouldn't be enough   	time   	in forever to read them. It began years ago when I was a girl. Brown eyes   	and   	hair, little frail   	child that grew up hard and starved for affection. A kind of affection only   	one man in a lifetime could give. We all have to   	  	travel roads in this life, some   	are smoother than silk, others unbearable and cruel. All are part of a   	significance that make up who we become. Delicate creatures under God we   	are, all having special   	  	beauty. I was so fortunate to find   	&quot;one&quot; more beautiful and unique than anyone. So different than what I have   	seen in all my years past. His eyes so full of hope and compassion. Hands   	crafted with a   	love   	and gentleness no one possess other than he. That is my Michael. He has the   	power to take the very breath I breathe. I would give my breath freely.   	Looking back, mistakes we all make them. Or are they all part of the   	stepping stones we have to journey before finding the true joys this life   	has to offer.

We put our   	hearts and   	trust in   	  	people we shouldn't. Fall and   	become so broken. Traveling the roads gathering strength and understanding   	as we go. Question? Don't we truly know in our hearts there is only one who   	God destined us to spend our lives with? I believe. For those who haven't   	found their one and only yet, don't give up. That ach in your heart that   	void you need to be filled. You hear that voice in your soul saying there's   	someone wanting me, needing me. Someone who can   	love   	me, the way I feel   	love.   	Keep believing, keep watch. When you least expect it he or she will surface.   	You will know. There will be such a magic and fulfillment in your heart. You   	will not be able to deny you have found the one meant for you. I can never   	put in words what hope in life and   	  	trust in   	love   	Michael has given me. Anyone who has been lucky enough to know him is richer   	by far.   	Gold and   	  	silver has no value next to my   	Sweet Boy. His presence fills a room with warmth. His smile touches the soul   	and brings a comfort to your heart. Michael and I, lived, dreamed, searched,   	suffered many hurts, but we kept hoping to find what was meant to be. We now   	live in a world that so many told me only happened in fairy tails.

I was told   	the   	love I looked for   	wasn't real. I still believed. Now I am sure of the life and   	love   	I longed for. Michael has made my journey complete. The happiness we share   	is a long awaited dream come true. Oh how others where wrong, such fools.   	The very first   	time   	we met I knew he was the one. Tall, dark and handsome. A complete gentleman.   	( Took my breath, yes I am smiling) We met some would say by accident. ( I   	call it fate) I saw him in a crowded night club. He was standing at the bar,   	dressed in black (I am smiling), and a black cowboy hat. He stood 6'5. A   	mountain of a man. I was drawn to this mysterious gentleman. I could never   	see his face. He hide it from me when I tried to catch his eye. I made a few   	attempts to get close enough to speak only to loose my nerve. What I didn't   	know is he was watching me. The next thing that happened was a shock. He had   	pulled a chair up behind me and sat down. So sure I wanted to see this   	strangers face up close, now I was frozen. Afraid to turn around. He was   	extremely close, I could see him from the corner of my eye. Still I could   	not see his face for the brim of his hat. After a few deep breaths and what   	little spunk I could gather, I made a clumsy turn in his direction. ( Me   	little bold 5'4 never been afraid of anything was weak in the knees)

I had no   	idea the things that where happening where pieces of a puzzle falling   	together that would change my life forever. I spun around and hit his leg   	with mine. I began with the I'm sorry looking up to see what was hidden   	under that hat. Holding my breath, I saw his eyes fixed on me, finally   	unhidden. The structure of his face was strong, sexy and his smile   	captivated me. He was and is so charming. It was if we where the only two  	  	people there. As he   	looked at me his eyes took a soft warm shape. He was reading right into my   	heart. He reached his hand out over mine completely covering it. Gently he   	lifted my hand to his lips and softly laid a kiss there. Lost in this moment   	I was hanging on every word he said &quot; Its a pleasure my lady.&quot; Chills ran   	over me. It took me a second to comprehend I was holding my breath. We saw   	each other over the next few months and found that we where so very much   	alike. The   	time that I spent   	with him never seemed to be enough. I will never forget the first   	time   	he said he loved me.

To this day   	it still feels like the first   	time.   	Some might think I am just silly or foolish. The ones who have there true  	  	love understand.   	Everyday I spend with him is a true blessing. The life we are living and   	building is untouchable. Such an innocent   	love   	we share.   	Free from doubt.   	Still never able to stretch the day far enough. An eternity of loving him   	wont be enough   	time   	to give him what he deserves. He is worthy of only good things and   	happiness. Every road I have traveled, any hardship or heart-ach I have   	picked up along the way holds no tie on me. I would do it all again just to   	touch his heart. To feel his hand on my cheek and his arms around me. He   	makes me new. Setting my heart into a freedom I never knew. Teaching me how  	  	love and living   	should be. Michael only my eyes can show you the way to my heart. My arms   	around you lost in place where you know me as if you have known me forever.   	The little girl, the woman. A place where you have always been, and   	belonged. Waiting for the perfect   	time   	and place that the magic of fate would fall upon you and I. Emotion,   	companion,   	love, so strong   	words cant hold it. You   	love   	me with all you are and can be, I   	love   	you with what you have made me. Before, without you so incomplete. Now   	filled with happiness and life. The girl that was hidden, waiting to   	love   	you now   	flowers out like a  	  	rose in the sun.   	You are my life and I will always   	love   	and belong to you. Your   	Baby   	Girl and Bride to be Lisa 1/24/2004    </body>  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/NDERF/Soulmates/lisa_r_smr.htm