{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/NDERF\/Soulmates\/carolien_s's_smr.htm","mytitle":"Carolien S's SMR","mylang":"de"}
          	Carolien S's SMR                      	            		

          Carolien S' SMR </span>   
  Home Page  Current NDEs  Share NDE</span>     	</tr>

  Experience description: &nbsp;

All my life I had   always been teased and left out, I moved from Holland to New Zealand when I was   3 and moved back to Holland a few days before my 12th birthday. Up until a few   months ago I had only had a few boyfriends, but that never took much longer than   a week and I would want to escape because of the horrible feeling I always got   on the inside. That had happened so often that I was afraid to try anymore for   fear of it happening again and hurting someone's feelings by it.&nbsp; I kept on   telling myself I didn't need anybody and I never made much contact with people   because I was too shy.It went really well, but that was easy because I didn't   know what I was missing anyway.
  
  In august 2003 in the last week of the dummer holidays I took a reiki course.   The last day was on a Sunday and usually we are not allowed to sit behind the pc   on Sundays, so I decided to check my email sneakily and quickly. I looked in my   unwanted mail filter and I found an email that had been sent by a 23 year old   guy named Bas who had seen my profile and just had a special feeling about me.   We had so much in common and all that...The weird thing was that we live a few   streets away from each other but we had never seen each other before.&nbsp; I   didn't think anything of it until I started to chat with him. We talked for   hours about so many things and we could really talk about anything and 
  understand each other very well. I fell in love immediately. After a few days of   hour-long chat sessions I had to leave to go shopping with my friends and he   asked if he could meet us in the city and have a drink together.

  So I said yes. I was really nervous   because I was afraid to like him too much. We met for lunch, together with 2 of   my friends and it turned out that one of my friends already knew him and that he   had also been to the same school as us but I never saw him at the reunion while   my friend did. We sat and talked for hours and had a great time, and when I went   home I had butterflies all over.

  We decided to meet again, this time we went   to Omsterdam to some kind of parade together. I never expected someone of his   age to like me in the same way I liked him but I was proven wrong. He was trying   all day to show me but I was to afraid to respond, for the reasons I mention   earlier, not to mention the fact that I didn't know how. I didn't want to do   anything wrong and ruin it.&nbsp; When I got home after that day I was all   muddled up inside. I was madly in love on the one hand, but on the other I was   scared to death. He was everything I had always dreamed of on the inside AND on   the outside. He's sensitive, and good listener and talker, kind, he has the same   hobbies as I do, and he even has long blond hair and a face that really appeals   to me.

The day after, school   started again and I had to leave for a week in a row with all my classmates from   the drawing exam class to a place where we had to spend all day painting the   landscapes for a whole week.&nbsp; I had my mobile phone with me but I wasn't   used to having it on so on the second day I decided to turn it on just in case,   and It turned out that Bas had sent me a message the day before, asking If I   found it unpleasant the way he touched me, because he was afraid that he had   frightened me or something since I didn't react. I wanted to send him a message   immediately to tell him that that was not the case. Really I actually loved it,   I felt all warm and tingly whenever he put his arm around my waist or something   like that.. But all of a sudden the battery of my phone was empty. So I reached   back to the back to ask Kelly for her phone and sent him a message. He was   really relieved.

  After I got back that week, I went to his   school to help him practice for a big audition in Germany, I sang the female   part in a duet with him. After that we walked through the city for a while just   talking. He gave me a really innocent kiss on the cheek but I turned my head   away because I didn't know how to react so he didn't dare try it again. I got   really mad at myself for not listening to my heart since on the inside I was   burning to just kiss him and hold him as long and hard as I could. We went out a   few more times that week but I was constantly to chicken to show him how I   really felt. But he kept on trying to find a way to break down my wall, all   though he left me to figure it all out at my own pace.&nbsp; Usually he would   give up and feel rejected but with me he felt that it was different.

The week after, he   had to leave by train to Germany in the weekend but he was coming down with a   cold, which is not handy when you need to audition for a major part... So I   offered to give him a small reiki treatment. I stood behind the couch with my   hands on his head and he almost fell asleep. When I was done he turned around   and sat on his knees on the couch, facing me. He described how it had 
  felt and before I knew it he bent over and kissed me. I didn't want to hold back   any longer and I just kissed him back. He took my face in his hands and carried   on while I felt warm flutters and sparks shooting through my body.

  He stepped over the couch and we stood   there for what seemed like ages in each other arms just with our foreheads   leaning against each others and looking at each other. I felt a feeling that I   had never felt before but it felt wonderful. After that we sat back down on the   couch and he fell asleep while sitting against me. That was the beginning of US.   We have been together for about half a year now and the feelings for each other   get stronger every day. I really feel that I have found my soulmate and if We   were to lose each other somehow we would both probably wither away from the   grief. Now I know what I have missed all my life. LOVE.
  &nbsp;</body>  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/NDERF/Soulmates/carolien_s's_smr.htm