{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/NDERF\/Soulmates\/cait_smr.htm","mytitle":"Cait SMR 021118","mylang":"de"}
          	          Cait SMR 021118                    	            		

Cait SMR</b>    
  Home Page  Current NDEs  Share NDE</span>     	</tr>        
  
  I ALWAYS knew I had a soul mate. When I was 3 Disney's the little mermaid came out. I'm sure I was never more obsessed with a movie I remember being 6, 7 and just watching it over and over and staring at prince Eric and his black hair and blue eyes. I knew that was my soul mate. I remember being as young as 10 praying to be lead to my black haired blue eyed soul mate. I met my soul mate, my husband, when I was 12. I had recently moved and we rode the same school bus. Every time he got on the bus we would just stare at each other and then steal glances back and forth. He was and in many ways still is a painfully shy person, but somehow he got the courage to write me a note. We then began to pass notes back and forth but never actually talked. It was a tumultuous time for my life and even though I kept myself very closed off from people I found myself unable to resist sharing every detail with him. He was so kind and   nonjudgmental. After a few months I moved again, which was typical. I wrote him a goodbye note with my phone number. He called me a few months later and we agreed to meet at a nearby hang out but he never showed. I found out later his mom commonly would take off leaving him to watch his brothers and that's what happened. He never called again and life moved on. When I was 14 and he was 16 he got his driver's license and the first drive he took was to my house. I lived on a large farm my grandfather was  walking to dog and turned him away saying he was to old for me. I wouldn't  hear that story until my grandfather joked about it in a toast at our wedding.   
  
  When I was 16 he tried again. HE HAD KEPT ALL OUR LETTERS! We had a mutual friend that he used to try to reconnect us but a terrible misunderstanding caused her not to deliver the message as she was afraid I would hurt him. He knew something didn't feel right so he asked her to point out my locker so he could return the old letters and a new one. Unfortunately, what still remains a mystery today is I never got them. When we finally did reconnect years later one of the first things he wanted to know was why I never wrote him back from that. When I was 21 I took a job at the same place as him. For me I had always thought about him but tried to push it away because I thought he had rejected me and it was awkward. I didn't know he had tried to reconnect. So when I saw we would be working together I wanted to clear the air. I approached him full force right away (that's how I am) and I said hey let's be cool and let bygones be bygones. I said I didn't want it to be awkward. He was very nice we ended up having a long after work chat just about small stuff where life had taken us. Nothing big but just standing there looking in his eyes I knew I wanted to try for some romance. I went home and thought of him all night. The next day I went to work excited to maybe ask him out to lunch but quickly discovered his girlfriend worked with us too. Both of us were not the types to mess around with any thing like that we just maintained a platonic work relationship but later we both admitted to some intense longing. That company closed down we were laid off and wouldn't reconnect for a year.   
  
  A year later I had a new job at a truck stop and he had gone to school to be a truck driver and he parked his semis at this truck stop on the weekends. The first Friday that he came in off the road when I was working there he gave me the biggest smile. It was like we both knew now was the moment. Within 60 seconds of chatting we both confirmed that we were single, lol. We went on our first date and I truly say THAT WAS IT. I literally told my parents that night I would marry this man. We spent whole night talking and then the whole month talking. We would talk all night after he drove all day. We were never apart after that first date. A lot of time in the beginning we would discuss the millions of times we saw each other or wanted to connect or thought of each other. I myself have had an N.D.E and I have dreams and visions. Our first year I had so many dreams and visions of us together in heaven before we came here. Everything with us is like one brain. We just sat down one night and I'm like 'do you think about marriage?' and he smiled and said 'today I thought I'm gonna ask her to marry me.' and so we planned our wedding in 2 weeks and 400$ and we were married.   
  
  Everything like that is one of us bringing up something the other has already thought. We are complete opposite personality but complete same on so many things. Our first year living together was hectic because I was pregnant but I have a crystal clear memory from shortly after our first son was born. I was reading in bed with the baby in his bassinet next to me and my husband was watching   TV in the living room. All of a sudden this strange feeling happened in my chest it felt like a soft sigh. I had never noticed feeling this before. I lifted my head and focused and searched the feeling and I gasped. I knew he had fallen asleep. I confirmed it and I figured I hadn't noticed before because we always fell asleep together except now we're exhausted parents. Turns out falling asleep in the recliner is a thing with him and I always have the same sigh inside my chest   Every time he does it. We also always know when one of us is having a bad day and we will send uplifting messages to each other never wrong about it. As long as I have known him he has kept his hair really short and this year he said he always wanted to grow it and he thinks he needs to do it now before he maybe loses his hair. I was sure I would hate it but there was a whisper in me saying let him grow his hair support him. I did hate it but after it got out of the awkward stage I became obsessed. I get this warm fuzzy over his long hair. Tonight I was playing with his hair and I remembered when I saw him, in heaven, he had long hair. And in that moment I felt like I was falling in love at first sight all over again. Which is what made me want to search   NDERF for soul mate experiences and I am honored to get to share my own. It took us a decade to make it to the first date and nine years later there do seem to always be things that try to keep us apart but it never happens, we believe, we are one. I just re-read and yes my soul mate my husband has black hair and eyes as blue as prince Eric just like I always knew he would.     

[1] https://www.nderf.org/NDERF/Soulmates/cait_smr.htm