{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/NDERF\/Soulmates\/conflictcommunication.htm","mytitle":"Beth's NDE 1023","mylang":"de"}
          	Beth's NDE 1023                    	            		

'We're Done' Can be   		Predicted Before 'I Do'</font></b></font>    
  Home Page  Current NDEs  Share NDE</span>     	</tr>

Kathleen Doheny,   HealthDay Reporter, August 19, 2004
  
  It seems the seeds of divorce are sown long before a   couple recites their wedding vows. 
  
  New research shows certain relationship skills'or the lack of them'can predict   whether two people are headed for marital bliss or a painful breakup.
  
  The skills that predicted success will come as no surprise to marriage   therapists or happily married couples.
  
  'The ones who stayed happily married were likely to handle conflict   constructively,' said study author Mari L. Clements, an assistant professor of   clinical psychology at the Fuller Theological Seminary in Pasadena, Calif. Her   report appears in the August issue of the Journal of Marriage and Family.
  
  'Even in the midst of a difficult issue in their relationship, they were likely   to treat each other with respect,' Clements said. 'They were likely to listen to   each other.'
  
  Those headed for divorce were more likely to make negative comments about the   relationship or the partner, she found. And this pattern was evident before the   marriage ever took place.
  
  Clements and her colleagues studied 100 couples over 13 years to predict and   confirm the couples' marital satisfaction or distress. The couples had   volunteered to participate in the Denver Family Development Project beginning in   1980 and were each planning their first marriage.
  
  Before their wedding, they were tested using a variety of measures, such as a   marital adjustment test which evaluates such factors as happiness, disagreement   and confidence, a tool that allows a partner to rate the effect of their   spouse's communication, and a relationship problem inventory.
  
  'Couples who ended up divorced viewed each others' communication more   negatively,' Clements said.
  
  'We assessed them before they got married, when they still had all the   rose-colored glasses in place,' she said. 'We followed them for 13 years.'
  
  As the study continued, 58 couples were considered happily married (although   some had fallen into distress and then recovered), 22 were married but not happy   and 20 had divorced.
  
  The findings are actually good news, Clement said, because the lack of skills   leading up to unhappiness and divorce can be dealt with in counseling. 'The way   you handle conflict, the way you communicate with your partner, we can [help   people] change those,' she said.
  
  And it's not that the happily married couples are perfect, Clements said. 'It   wasn't that the couples who are happy never undermined or insulted their   partners,' she said. 'They just did it less.'
  
  But even a few hurtful remarks can turn a small problem into a big one over the   years, she said. 'Say I only say one nasty thing to my partner once a day. But   over 13 years, to hear it every day will have a cumulative effect.'
  
  Marriage expert Thomas Bradbury calls the findings 'noteworthy' because they   show how a handful of variables assessed even before marriage can reveal   important information about how a relationship will evolve.
  
  From the study, 'we see the presence of harsh and critical comments, even very   brief and well-intentioned ones, can accumulate to erode spouses' feelings of   closeness and intimacy,' said Bradbury, a professor in the department of   psychology at the University of California at Los Angeles and author of several   books on marriage and divorce.
  
  'I agree with Dr. Clements and her colleagues that more work is needed on this   topic, but already we can see that our relationships, like most things, require   maintenance and attention. John F. Kennedy said it best: The time to repair the   roof is when the sun is shining. Attending to our relationships now, today, is   essential if we want them to remain strong into the future.'
  
  
  &nbsp;    </body>  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/NDERF/Soulmates/conflictcommunication.htm