{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Hub\/shared_nde.htm","mytitle":"Shared Near-Death Experiences","mylang":"de"}
          	          Shared Near-Death Experiences                            	            		

Shared Near-Death Experiences  </b></font></span>   
  Home Page    Share NDE</span>     	</tr>        

  

      		
  Guide to Column Labels in the List Below: 

  Registry Number:   NDERF registry number

    Post Name:     Title of experience posted on nderf.org

  URL:    URL of experience posted on nderf.org

  Text:     Relevant generally prolonged quote from the near-death experience


    This page contains examples of 17 shared near-death experiences.

      Methodology: 

      Experiences were scored as near-death experiences (NDEs) if they met all of the following:

  1. A lucid, organized experience occurring at the time of a life-threatening event so severe that there is unconsciousness or clinically apparent death with an absent heartbeat.      2. Shared by the individual who personally had the NDE.    3. Shared in English via the completed survey form on nderf.org.    These are NDEs shared throughout the time that the NDERF website (nderf.org) has been active. All accounts were scored as NDEs if they met the above criteria and regardless of experience content to avoid bias in studying the content of the NDEs.  

    The NDEs posted on the NDERF website are edited to correct obvious spelling and grammar errors. As remarkable as the NDEs are in this list, please remember that they accurately represent the real experiences of near-death experiencers (NDErs) from all walks of life and around the world.  

  We strive to make a collection of shared NDEs available to the world with as comprehensive a collection of such NDEs as possible. We would be delighted to collaborate in this endeavor with anyone with other credible internet sources of shared NDEs.

      This list is public domain and may be used by anyone.

  Substantial efforts are made to minimize the risk of posting fraudulent NDE accounts on nderf.org: See a more detailed explanation. 

  We strive for accuracy in this list. If any NDEs should not be included for any reason, please email us at nderf@nderf.org with the NDE registry number and URL. Thanks!

    Even a quick review of the NDEs below should demonstrate that shared NDEs occur, along with their consistent message of the reality of an afterlife.       



    	      	      	Shared Near-Death Experiences   	  		  			Registry Number  			Post Name  			URL  			Text  		  	               	  	  		  			992  			G Ryan NDE  			https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1g_ryan_nde.html  			It was as if I blinked. My eyes were suddenly open, but my position had changed, I was now up high, I looked around me and found that I was on the balcony. I wasn't flying, or floating, I was just crouching there on the edge looking down at myself, watching Shane remove the spike from my chest, he was shouting, but it was silent, no noise whatsoever. I looked right and saw Jo, she too was crying hard. She was reloading a battery into her mobile phone, but she was too shaky to slide it in correctly. I'd never felt so cold. From feeling very warm when I was lying amongst the rubble, I now felt cold, but it wasn't an uncomfortable feeling, it was just one that was to be accepted without question it seemed. I was wearing the exact same clothes as before, even the blood stains were still there. My sight was not - human. It was fragmented, although I could see perfectly, if not better, it was not the sight I'd had previously, and everything glowed in a silvery way. I looked down at myself again. Shane was trying in vain to revive me, but it didn't seem to be working. Although I was clear of the spike, my lung was obviously punctured, but Shane wasn't giving up. Jo had now successfully inserted the battery into the mobile phone, tapped in a number and raised it to her ear. I remember looking at her lips. They were trembling as she spoke, and I couldn't make out what she was saying. Then something caught my eye. Something or someone was coming along the balcony just behind Jo. It was Charlie. I quickly looked down at his body. He was clearly dead. His head was precariously placed away from his shoulders. I looked back at Charlie. He was looking blank, but he had tears in his eyes. He sat down and dangled his legs over the broken ledge of the balcony just on the other side of the frantic Jo. He looked down at himself. 'Charlie?' I asked, not knowing if he would hear me. He looked up sharply. His face crumpled. 'I'm scared Greg.' I looked at him, and then again, at his lifeless body. There was nothing anyone could do to help him now. He was dead - full stop. He too was looking at himself. 'I know,' I said, as I felt a tear roll down my face. The doors flung open. And a team of three paramedics shot through the door - two men and a woman. We watched the woman check Charlie as the others ran over to me. As one undid his case, he looked back at the woman checking Charlie. All eyes were on her now, even Jo was. She shook her head gently. Charlie was dead. He looked again at me. If Charlie was dead, why was I staring into his eyes now? 'You have to go Greg,' he said. It dawned on me that I had to try to get back into my body. 'What about you?' I asked. 'Greg, I'm dead. You saw the woman; there is nothing I can do.' 'Yes you can,' I pleaded, 'You have to try Charlie.' He gave a gentle smile and nodded. He stood up, as did I, and we walked to each other. I looked into his eyes for a moment - they were full of fear and there was nothing I could do about it. He gave me a hug, and Charlie never gave men hugs. He held me really tight, and then he broke off, still crying, yet harder. 'Goodbye Greg,' he said. 'Bye Charlie,' I said. I looked back at myself on the floor, and jumped.  		  		  			4269  			William M NDE  			https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1william_m_nde_4269.html  			I was taking my girlfriend to her parents' home in Welland and went to sleep at the wheel. I became aware that we were out of our bodies and quickly flying up toward space, holding hands. We flew straight up for a minute or so when we started to see a park or countryside-like landscape. It seemed to be twilight, dark, but we could see trees, bushes, etc. Suddenly, four creatures intercepted us. They seemed about ten feet in height and were invisible, but we could see a vague humanoid outline (my best description would be like the invisibility effect in the movie 'Predator', which I saw some years later). Two flanked each of us and began to gently separate us. They overwhelmed us with a feeling of the highest love and compassion that was well beyond anything we could experience on Earth - a divine love. We therefore had no resistance to their effort. I recall feeling sort of like a baby in mother's arms, but it's hard to accurately describe. Two of them moved her upward toward the distant landscape, and two moved me back downward. I felt so much love, peace and comfort that I wanted to protest and say 'No, please let me stay here', but I heard inwardly (without ears or psychically) that I could not stay. Next, I could see my car, in flames, from maybe about a quarter of a mile up above. I felt a sensation of falling and awakened in the car. The front was on fire. I moved her from leaning on me, as she was when I fell asleep, knowing that her body was an empty shell.  		  		  			8497  			Lacee T NDE  			https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lacee_t_nde.html  			Suddenly I was in a field of tall, beautiful, green grass that was undulating in waves—yet there was no wind. Overhead, the sky was pink/rosy/purple and I felt a strong sense of well-being, as if I were in a wonderful paradise—a sort of Garden of Eden. I saw my husband walking towards me through the grass. We looked at each other and without talking, I understood that he had died. I knew that at this moment we had to say goodbye. He let me know that he will be waiting for me, but for now I need to care for our boys. Then I was on the ground again, back in my body and feeling overwhelming pain.   		  		  			6359  			Karen vDK NDEs  			https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1karen_vdk_nde.html  			During the operation of April 23, I was aware of a hugely intense feeling of love and compassion. I traveled through a kind of tunnel. Time didn't exist, and I found myself at a 'gate,' together with three figures. One of them, I recognized as my grandmother, whom I knew was alive at the time. The other two were other kinds of beings, human-like, but I couldn't identify them. The feeling of harmony, love, and goodness was overwhelming. At one point, we were 'told' we weren't allowed to pass yet and had to 'go back.' It wasn't communicated in words, exactly, though. We were both reluctant. I 'went back,' but my grandmother stayed. The next day, my husband told me that my grandmother had a stroke and was unconscious and in very serious condition. 'I already knew', I said… On the May 9, the doctors saved my life by inserting a drain in my kidney. When I woke up after four days, I had felt a kind of terrible sadness. It was horrible in the hospital, but whenever I closed my eyes and dozed off, I could bring back the overwhelming feeling of love and harmony. Indescribable! Again, I remember traveling through time and space, until I came to the gate. I vividly remember how intensely I was looking forward to it. My grandmother was still there. Words were not exactly spoken; it was more a communication of 'knowing.' It was in a totally different dimension. The two beings were there, too. The light was blindingly beautiful and all encompassing. It's difficult to find words, but, as I seek them in my memories, tears are in my eyes. Then suddenly they let me know 'It is not your turn yet.' I remember vividly how I reached out for my grandmother, and her 'energy' touched me and became a sort of lacy string of light. She went through the gate and, still with this tremendous feeling of love, the beings sent me back. When I came round after four days in the intensive care unit, my family told me that my grandmother had died May 9. But I already knew. I tried to tell them how I knew… My grandmother. She had a severe stroke during my first experience, and actually died during my second one.  		  		  			7510  			Jennifer J NDEs  			https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jennifer_j_ndes.html  			The other NDE I had was when I found myself in my late Uncle's operating room in Pennsylvania. Unbeknownst to me or my mom, his sister, or any other of our relatives in Florida, Uncle Bill had gone into the hospital for routine elective surgery to remove some polyps. He wasn't ill so it was supposed to be an easy routine operation. I found myself together with him, hovering in a corner of his operating room, watching his medical team cover his dead body. We didn't speak or look at each other really. He didn't wear glasses as he had in life, and it's the only NDE in which it seemed I had a shape or form, as did Uncle Bill. We communicated, without speaking and without words. We communicated a meaning that conveyed a knowing. I don't really know how to express it. We watched them cover his body, and then we turned and left the room…  I realized I was the only person of my relations who knew that my uncle had passed. At first, I wondered why nobody was talking about it, why hadn't anyone mentioned it? Then I realized they didn't know. My suspicions were confirmed when I asked what happened to him, and they didn't know what I was talking about.  		  		  			2948  			Darlene K NDE  			https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1darlene_k_nde.html  			I floated up to the ceiling. Lucy entered the room with the bright rays of sun through the window. She had no body, like me. We greeted each other happily and played, spinning and twirling in the air. It was fun. When we stopped, she took me up through a dark tunnel with an intense light at the top. When we arrived, there was no top or bottom. There was nothing there but love. It was pure love. Intense love. Everything was okay. Everyone there was okay. They were all happy, loving beings. They were expecting Lucy. They talked with her and laughed with her. I watched them and felt the love all around me. They reviewed Lucy's past. Suddenly, I felt a being communicate, 'You're not supposed to be here.' (((Lucy was her cousin)))  		  		  			3990  			David L NDE  			https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1david_l_nde_3990.html  			Back to the darkness, the pitch of black. Then it was as if I was looking down through the branches of a tree. There was an image, fuzzy and dark. I thought, 'What is that?' My friend answered, 'I do not know, what is that?' focusing all my concentration. The images were distorted like the sunlight that shines on the bottom of a swimming pool. The dim fuzzy dark image was illuminated clear for only an instant by the brighter lines moving across the field of view. I said to my friend, 'That is my brother's car.' I could see a police car to the left, a group of people behind the police car on the left, an ambulance to the right with a police car to the right of the ambulance. My friend said, 'That is us.' At that moment, we both said, 'We are dead.'  		  		  			4069  			Michael B NDE  			https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1michael_b_nde.html  			I remember then walking with my mother in beautiful light towards a source of Great goodness and Love, just as we were about to be bathed in the Light my mother knelt and hugged me, she told me she Loved me, that it was not my time yet. She then crossed into the Light… Did you see an unearthly light? Yes We were bathed in it, my mother, when she turned and left me, walked into its source… I was allowed to be with my mother at a very significant time of her life.  		  		  			6243  			Dan BC NDE  			https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1dan_bc_nde.html  			A gentle breeze was suspending me. It was okay, it was fine. I was floating, flying, but it wasn't right. What was I doing there? I wasn't afraid. I felt safe, but confused. I looked up and saw James flying down to me just as if we were on a skydive together and he was 'swooping' me. His expression was that silly, playful smile he so often had in free fall. He obviously was not confused at all. He knew exactly where he was and what he was doing there. He flew down and stopped in front of me. Still with a smile on his face, he asked, 'Danny, what are you doing here?' I answered, 'I don't know.' James said, 'You're not supposed to be here, you have to get back down there.' I began to get a grasp of the situation. I asked him, 'Are you coming with me?' His expression changed to one with a hint of sadness. He said, 'No, I can't.' I tried to persuade him to change his mind, 'C'mon, James, we were just getting started. You gotta come with me.' James raised his voice, interrupting me. 'I can't!' It was obvious that the decision was final. It seemed as if it wasn't his decision. He continued with a gentle smile. 'I can't, but it's okay. There are more places to go, more things to do, more fun to have. Tell my mom it's okay. Tell her I'm okay.' For a few seconds we just looked at each other as I accepted this for the reality it was. He changed his tone and spoke with some authority as he gave me an order. 'Now,' he said, 'you need to get back down there. You need to go get control of the situation.'… My deceased friend told he was okay and that there were more places to go, things to do and fun to have… That James came to speak to me was an act of love on his part.  		  		  			4176  			Shawna F NDE  			https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1shawna_f_nde.html  			When I got beyond the light, I realized that I was in the backyard of my grandparent's home. My three year old son was there playing. He had also been in the wreck. He suffered brain stem trauma and was in a coma, at another hospital nearby. I did not know this of course. The last time I had saw him, Emergency Medical Services were dragging his limp/lifeless body out of the back window. He was there. He was playing with bricks. That made sense to me and still does, because my grandfather would use brick pavers in his landscaping projects. He had a pile of them next to his shed. I was overjoyed to see him. He didn't seem to be bothered or excited that I was there. He just kept playing with the bricks. I just watched him. I remember that the longer that I watched him, I started to feel differently. There still continued to be no thoughts per se, but, my emotional levels changed. Euphoria is the best word I can use. And that feeling of joy and happiness just seemed to climb. I didn't have that feeling of flying anymore, as I was there watching my son. I remember looking at him and feeling as though, I was memorizing every detail about him. The yard and all of its contents just seemed to be a backdrop. I didn't feel interested in it at all, just my son. That time with him, seemed to last for hours. I never spoke a word, nor did he in all that time. We never touched either. Then I began to think again. My thoughts were all related to how I was feeling. I did know or I did think that I had died. I felt that it was wonderful, it was a feeling of such unexplainable joy. The notion of being dead was just a matter of fact. It was like - okay, I have died and this is AWESOME. My kid is here, I feel incredible!!! But, soon after I began to think that way, I started to fly again and I started to move away from my son. It was as if I was dangling a few feet in the air over him now, instead of beside him. The emotions were still the same however. Then he looked up at me and asked me if I wanted to play? And without hesitation, I answered, 'Yes.' He reached out his hand and I took it. And as soon as I did, everything felt like it was moving backwards at an incredible rate of speed. I was sucked back into that dark hole and it was dark. I didn't feel afraid, I felt sad - I didn't want to come back. I wanted to stay in that place. I knew this had happened to me.  		  		  			10015  			Delona NDE  			https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1delona_nde.html  			In 1977 I was in a car accident and my son, age 8 1/2 was killed. I broke 90 percent of my body. My daughter age 4 had her spleen ruptured. While the driver of the car we were in did not get hurt. After we were in the ambulance, the EMTs were working on my son. At the time, I did not know that he was so badly hurt. I remember holding out my left hand and taking hold of his right hand. Then I remember one of the EMTs saying, “We just lost the Mother too.” Then my son and I were walking hand in hand through a dark tunnel. After we came to the end of the tunnel, loved ones and friends who had died were waiting for us. Then Jesus walked over to me and said that I had a choice; I could stay in Heaven or go back to Earth. He said that he would show me what would happen in my life if I was to go back to Earth but I was not going to remember any of it. I remember that my life was going to be hard and full of pain. I looked at my son and told him that I loved him very much; I then took his hand and placed it in my Uncle's hand. I then told Jesus and my son that I had to go back to Earth because my daughter had nobody but me to care for her. In a blink of an eye, I was back in my body and still in the ambulance. I heard an EMT say, “My God, the Mother is back.”  		  		  			6660  			Jeffery O NDE  			https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jeffery_o_nde.html  			 Left my body at the scene of the accident and visited another realm of light, where I was told by my own deceased wife that I must return to my oldest son who also survived the accident… I had experiences with my wife and young son who were killed in the same accident that nearly took my life… My oldest son was still in the wrecked car. I knew he was alive and OK. I chose to come back to him.   		  		  			5251  			Andrew J NDE  			https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1andrew_j_nde.html  			What I do remember is from the middle of the conversation. Keep in mind that at this point, I did not know my father had passed on in the accident that we had just been in. We had been on our way to go out to eat, as we always did, and he had been driving. I remember that the Lord said to me, 'Worry not, you will not be kept here. I do not wish to have you home yet, for you have much to live for!' This was in response to my question, 'Am I really 'dead' to my life down there?' The Lord then smiled and my dad walked in, grinning as he went to stand by the Lord's side. It was his usual mischievous 'surprise bearing' smile. It also had a large amount of pride in it. My dad simply said, 'I'm home.' To which I replied, 'Daniel will miss you, and so will I.' Daniel, who was seventeen at the time of the accident, is my younger brother. My dad simply said, 'Take care of him while you still can.' I said that of course I would. The Lord then spoke and said, 'Your father spoke to me earlier and did not wish you to die. I granted his wish.' I conversed more with the Lord and my father. This portion isn't something I can remember, but I get the hazy sense that it was just as if we were talking things over, and that they were both consoling me.  		  		  			6820  			Mukurarinda D NDE  			https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mukurarinda_d_nde.html  			I started to descend from the ladder. While on the ladder, I met someone who was like me. If I tell you, I don't remember which form I had, only I was a powerful being full of vigor, without any need whatsoever for food, drink, or clothes. I was amazing! The person I met was the person who in few minutes passed away. (I was told by onlookers in the clinic after.) He was in the same clinic room with me. He asked me what happened to me in heaven and I told him. I asked him what was happening on earth. He asked me to open up my eyes and see the earth (where we are). What a dirty place, what a confusing place. I was too clean, too holy to step on earth. While discussing, I advised him to go up into heaven, maybe they would accept him. I told him, that I was going down on earth to do something, which I would know while back on earth. I kissed him bye, and I stepped down on earth. While coming down near where my body was, just on a sick bed, I saw my body. Meanwhile, the doctor had declared the previous night at 8:00pm that I had passed away. It was the night when he said so, but when I came back, it was in the next morning at 7:00am.   		  		  			9011  			Michael K SDE  			https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1michael_k_sde.html  			When I remembered it, after some therapy I believe, it was a very clear memory, similar in vividness to the white tunnel vision. The situation was that my younger brother and I were playing. He had recently turned 4, and I was 6. We ran to a tire swing. While on the tire swing together, he fell. In my memory, I remember all of the sudden being in this tunnel of white light, again characterized by very peaceful and loving feelings. My brother was ahead of me, moving up the tunnel, and I was following him. He serenely turned around after we had moved up the tunnel a little bit and looked at me compassionately. Mind to mind, he told me something like, 'It's not your time. You have to go back.' He felt very kind to me as he communicated. After he communicated that, all of the sudden I was standing in my body near where he was on the ground. I later was told that he died just about instantly upon falling to the ground in a kind of unusual accident where the heart stops when it gets hit in between heart beats. When I came back to my body my family started to rush out in a panic to help him, neighbors and an ambulance came, but no effort to resuscitate him was successful. Even though the tunnel felt very peaceful, after regaining consciousness, I had a thought that it was my fault, then felt guilt. Plus sadness, grief, and so on, very intense emotional pain for my family and then me. Since remembering this experience many years later, it has been comforting, to a degree, with all the emotional pain. I was very close to my brother. He was my best friend and it felt like we did everything together. It makes sense to me, since we were so close, that I would follow him up the tunnel… I was in a beautiful tunnel though mostly was stationary in it… My younger brother who had just died, I saw him. I was not aware that he had died as we were in the white tunnel together, only later I found out he was supposed to have died at that very moment… Two beautiful beings of light were at the end of the tunnel. They looked compassionately at me… The boundary at the end of the tunnel, intuitively to me, indicated a next phase of existence. This was non-verbal inner knowing/feeling.  		  		  			5271  			Joanie S NDE  			https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1joanie_s_nde.html  			This was an ectopic pregnancy, and I went through surgery. While under, I apparently bled severely, so they iced me. Again, I was in the marble room, but the Reaper wasn't there, only clouds. The child I was losing was there, and said for me not to worry, as she would be back before the end of the year. I woke up and carried on. After returning home, I expressed to my mother-in-law that the child I lost was going to be born soon - and within two weeks, my sister-in-law was 'late.' When she came to term, I recognized her new baby as the child I had seen.  		  		  			7284  			Carmen V Shared NDE  			https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1carmen_v_nde.html  			I turned towards him and fainted. He says that I 'wilted like a flower.' Once on the floor, it was as if a hole/space with blurred edges had opened up in the side of the hospital and I could see outside the building. I saw a small cloud-like tuft move out of me, out the building and up towards the sky where I felt the presence of many beings turned towards and welcoming the spirit moving out of me. To me it felt like the same energy as if walking towards a party with many people: like the energy of many beings. I have a mental image of these beings being white and surrounded by whiteness. I also sensed a beautiful, comforting, peaceful music. I don't think I heard music and I have no auditory memory of music, but somehow I sensed this wonderful music. I wanted to follow the spirit and fly upwards, but at that moment, I felt the weight of my body… During the 20 minutes' walk home, I told my partner that I could feel that the baby was gone. While the whole time I had been pregnant, I had a sense of there being a life inside of me, now that sense was gone. I felt empty and alone… Loss of my fetus seemed to occur at exactly that moment… I didn't pass through this space, but I watched my baby's spirit pass quickly up and through the space… Seeing the spirit of my baby was profound.  		  		  			  			  			  			  		  	             </body>  </html>

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Hub/shared_nde.htm