{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 4798","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v1_n10_nov_1884.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V1 N10 10 November 1884","mylang":"de"}
No. X.] [NOVEJIBEB, 18St.
JOURNAL
OF THB
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS.
PAGB PAGB
New Members aDd AIIoclatea .. " _ 1891 Specimens of the CIauIllcation of Caaea
MeetiDp of Council •• •• •• ',' . . 170 for .. Pbantuma of tbe I4V1Dg" . • 182
Donations •• •• •. •• . . . • •• . . 171 .. Science" on Paycblcal Reaearcb •• . . 193
General HeetiDgtI •. •. •. . • . • •• 173 Pa,chical:s.e-rch In America . . . . 193
Cambridge Bl'IUlch of the S.P.R. .. ISO In Memoriam.. .• •• •• .. •. .. 195
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
CORRESPONDING MEMBERS.
BOWDITCH, PROFESSOR, H. P., M.D., Harvard Medical School, Boston,
U.S.A.
FULLERTON, PROFESSOR G. S., Pennsylvania University, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
liALL,PROFESSOR STANLEY,JOhnS Hopkins University, Baltimore, U.S.A.
JAMES, PROFESSOR W., Harvard University, Cambridge, U.S.A.
LEWIS, PROFESSOR CARVILL, Academy of Sciences, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
PICKERING, PROFESSOR E. C., The Observatory, Cambridge, U.S.A.
MEMBERS.
BUSHBY, HENRY NORTH GRANT, Trinity College, Cambridge.
MARSHALL, JOHN WILLIAM, M.A., The Holt, Godalming.
SCOTT, SYDNEY C., Hatherleigh, 28, The Avenue, Gipsy Hill, London.
S.E.
SWAN, JOsJijPH WILSON, Lauriston, Bromley, Kent.
VICARS, GEORGE RAYLEIGH, B.A., Woodville House, Rugby.
HONORARY ASSOCIATE.
DOUGALL, J. R., 294, Drummond Street, Mont~, Canada.
ASSOCIATES.
BEAZLEY, LIEUTENANT-COLONEL GEORGE G., 74, Redcliffe Square.
London, S.W.
CUMIN, MRS., 16, Chester Square. London, S.W.
DEBENHAM, ERNEST RIDLEY, Trinity College, Cambridge.
DEWAR, JAMES, M.D., Drylaw House, Daridson's Mains, Midlothian.
N.B.
HADLAND, MISS, Milton Mount College, Gravesend.
HARPUR, REV. GEORGE, B.A., Clifton Vicarage, Newark.
Digitized by Google
-.....
170 JOfI1'nQl oj Societyjor P81/cMcal Re8earch. [Nov., 1884.
HOWE, EDWARD R. J. GAMBIER, 7, New Square, Lincoln's Inn,
London, W.O.
JONES, MISS OONSTANCE, Girton Oollege, Oambridge.
MORTLOCK, REV. E., M.A., Sna.ilwell Rectory, Newmarket.
PARKER, KENYAN O. S., 13, Old Square, Lincoln's Inn, London,W.O.
SELLIN, PROFESSOR O. W., 59, Borgfelde, Mittelweg, Hamburg.
STILLMAN, W. J., Officeof Evening Post, New York, U.S.A.
WINGFIELD, MRS., The Redings, Totteridge, Herts.
N.B.-Members and Associates are requested to send information of any
changeofaddresatotheAssistant-Secretary,14,Dean's Yard,Westminster,S. W.
MEETINGS OF OOUNOIL
A Oouncil Meeting was held on the 31st ult., the President in the
chair, when Professor Barrett, Messrs. Alexander Oalder, Edmund
Gurney, Richard Hodgson, F. W. H. Myers, Edward R. Pease, Frank
Podmore, and Henry A. Smith were present.
The Minutes of the previous meeting were read.
On the proposition of Professor Barrett, and as a result of his
journey in America., six Oorresponding Members and one Honorary
Associa.te were elected for the year 1885, whose names and addresses
are given in another page. Eight new Members and Associates were
also elected, whose names will be found elsewhere.
A letter was received from Mrs. Boole, expressing her continued
interest in and appreciation of the work of the Society, but desiring
to resign her membership on account of the pressure of other engage-
ments.
Donations to the Research Fund were announced as follows, in
addition to those previously repo~ :-Mrs. H. Sidgwick, £30; Mr.
F. W. H. Myers, £25; Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, £20.; Lady Mount-
Temple, £5, and Mr. R. Pearsall Smith, £5.
The First Report of the Oommittee on Theosophical:Phenomena was
laid before the OounciL After consideration, it was agreed that the
Report should be presented to a Epecial meeting of Members and
Associates only, to be held on the 14th of November, and that it should
afterwards be issued as already arranged.
The Oouncil agreed to meet next, at 3.30. p.m., on the 14th of
November.
At an intermediate meeting of the Oouncil, held on the 14th inst.,
the President in the chair, the following members were present :-
Messrs. Alexander Oalder, Edmund Gurney, Richard Hodgson, F. W.
Digitized by Google
Nov., 1884.] Journal of SOC'tety fOr Psychical Re8earch. Iii
H. Myers, Frank Podmore, E. Dawson Rogers, and Hensleigh
Wedgwood.
The Minutes of the previous meeting having been read, 10 new
Members and Associates were elected, whose names and addresses are
included in the list given on another page.
Information was received of the death, in May last, of Miss Osler,
of Birmingham, an Associate of the Society.
A further don6.tion from the President of £100 to the Special Fund
was announced.
It was agreed that a General Meeting, open to Members and
Associates only, should be held at 4.30 p.m. on Friday, the 28th inst.,
at the Garden Mansion, Queen Anne's Mansions, St. James's Park, at
which the concluding part of the first Report of the Committee on
Theosophical Phenomena should be read.
A letter was read, which had been addressed to Professor Barrett by
Mr. N. D. C. Hodges, of Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A., in reference to the
American Psychical Society, of which Mr. Hodges is acting as Hon.
Secretary. He stated that the Committee of Organisation was making
good progress, and asked what arrangement could be made as to the
supply of the Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research to
members of the American Society. In reference to this question it was.
agreed that th'l following proposal should be made :-
"That the Proceedings of the Society for 'Psychical Research (past.
and future), should be supplied to the American Society at the price of
Is. 3d. a copy, on the 1Ulderstanding that no person received any copy so
supplied who did not pay an aanuaI subscription of at least ten shillings (or a
composition sum representing at least that anDual amount) to the American
Society; and on the further understanding that some corresponding arrange-
ment be made in favour of the Society for Psychical Research when the
American Society should publish ita Proceedings."
A unanimous vote of thanks was passed to Professor Barrett for the
services which he had rendered to the cause of Psychical Research
during his recent visit to America. The Council cordially welcomed the
prospect of co-operation with American workers in the same field.
DONATIONS
Receil!etl linee laBt annO'Uncement.
Professor H. Sidgwick
Mrs. 11. Sidgwick •..
Anonymous •.•
Lady Mount Temple
£ s. d.
100 0 0
30 0 0
20 0 0
500
172 Journal oj Societ,1! for P8ychical Research. [Nov., 1884.
GENERAL MEETINGS.
A General Meeting of the Society was held in the Hall of the
Society of British Artists, Suffolk Street, Pall Mall, on Friday,
October 31st. The chair was taken by Prof('ssor Barrett, who delivered
the following address on The Prospects of Psycltical Research in
America.
The meeting of the British Association this year in Montreal, took
me across the Atlantic in August last, and the opportunity seemed to
be a good one to do something towards advancing the objects of our
Society in America. Before leaving England, the Council were good
enough to entrust me with power to take whatever steps I might deem
expedient for this purpose. I am here this evening to render some
account of my visit. And at the outset permit me to apologise for
what I fear will be the unavoidably egotistic character of my remarks.
I left Liverpool on August 16th in the special steamer, "Parisian,"
which carried over the principal contingent of members of the
British Association, nearly 200 saloon passengers in all. We were
fortuna.te in having on board, not only the President of the Associ-
ation-our Vice-President, Lord Rayleigh-but also several Presidents
and Vice-Presidents of Sections, together with the Earl of Rosse, the
Hon. Secretary, and the Treasurer of the Association, besides many
other known and unknown scientific men. As I happened to be pre-
viously acquainted with very many of my fellow passengers, the Society
for Psychical Research was freely discussed on board, and it
was a most noticeable and gratifying fact that the distinctly
hostile attitude which was so generally prevalent in scientific
circles two or three years ago, was now confined to a comparatively
small number of persons. There will always be some who are never
weary in maintaining that our investigations are utterly futile, that life
is too short for such trivialities, that our methods are wrong and our
results fallacious, that trickery explains everything, or else pure chance,
or perhaps muscular action. No! they have never read our Proceedings,
but they have seen Stuart Cumberland and Maskelyne and Cooke, and
advise us to do the same!
But putting aside these once familiar comments, there is generally
noticeable on the other hand a growing, an intelligent, and a more
respectful interest in the difficult problems this Society has set itself to
face. In response to a general request from the passengers, I gave a
lecture in the saloon on the work of the Society for Psychical Research,
and a most interesting discussion followed ;-inspite of the difficulty of
speaking on a seesaw,with one's audience alternlitely below and above the
level of the eyes. Sir Leonard Tilley, Dr. Protheroe Smith, Canon
Rogers, and othe~s co~t~buted valuable facts coming'within their own
Nov., 1884.] Journal qf Society jor P8ychical Re8earch,
experience. There were several who wished to hear more of the work of
the Literary Committee, and a few disputants also wished to have a.
second evening of it, and so we ha.d, boring, I fear, a few of the
passengers. Very much the same experience repeated itself on my
return journey in the 'C Sardinian." Here we ha.d about 100 saloon
passengers, fully one half ofwhom were returning members of the British
Association. At the request of the captain and many passengers, J
lectured in the saloon, on the work of the Society for Psychical Research
Dr. Kerr, of Glasgow, taking the chair. Some useful facts were con-
tributed in the favourable discussion that followed, in which the Bishop
of Rochester, the Rev. Brooke Lambert, Professor Vernon Harcourt,
and others took part.
The net result of these cross-Atlantic passages may be said to be
information given, misconception removed, interest awakened, new
allies ma.de (some becoming members of the Society), the contribution of
several cases of value to the Literary Committee, and the promised com-
mencement of independent experiments on Thought-transference.
At Montreal I was the guest of Mr. J. R. Dougall, the editor and
proprietor of a flourishing and high-toned newspaper in that city. He had
rea.d the paper by Messrs. Myers and Gurney in the Nineteenth Century
and had printed copious extracts from them in his paper. He warmly
took up the project of enlisting Canadian support for the Society for
Psychical Research, and devoted a most thoughtful and encouraging
lea.ding article to the work of the Society in general, and to myself
in particular. Mr. Dougall subsequently got up a meeting to discuss
the Society for Psychical Research, and for the trouble and expense
to which he put himself, our thanks are due.
During the meeting of the British Association, I was able to
procure the sale of our Proceedings in the Reception-room, allowing a
reduced price to members of the Association. The contents of the
parts were a.dvertised in the local papers and announced in bills in the
Reception-room. In this way a good deal of inquiry and interest was
awakened, which led to some useful results, to which I will refer
directly. I did not attempt to bring the subject of Thought-transference
before the Association-though we may fairly claim to have obtained
definite results of the highest scientific value-simply because last year
a paper on this subject, which I sent to the British Association meet-
ing at Southport, was returned to me with a most courteous note,
stating that any phenomena which lie outside the recognised channels
of sense perception also lie outside the scope of the·British Association.
Here at Mon.rea1, I met Professor Canill Lewis, of Phila.delphia,one
of the energetic hon. secs. of the AmeriCan Association of Science; he
became much interested in the objects of the Society f.or Psychical
Digitized by Google
174 Journal qf Society/or Psychieal Research. [Nov.,1884.
Research and the results it had attained, and promised to give whatever
aid he could render in forming an affiliated local committee of scientific
men. After some consultation with his co-secretary, Dr. Minot, of
Boston, he suggested I should address a preliminary meeting of
scientific men at Philadelphia, the rooms of the American Association
in the Lafayette Hotel being kindly placed at my disposal for this
purpose. It was thought not unlikely that a paper on "Thought-
transference" might be acceptable to the American :Association, and
if so, it would open the way for the proposed meeting on the
general work of the Society for Psychical Research. .AB the American
.ABsociation held its annual meeting at Philadelphia immediately after
the Montreal meeting, I wrote to the Standing Committee of that
body, giving a brief outline of my paper, at the same time frankly
stating what had been its·fate in England. After the usual reference
to the Sectional Committees, I received a note of thanks, informing me
the paper was accepted and put down for the section on Biology. The
Committee, moreover, with the extreme courtesy and generosity that
characterised the whole behaviour of the American Association towards
its English guests, did not even enforce their rule of requiring the paper
to be submitted to them, trusting to reliable testimony that I was
"neither a long-haired man nor a short-haired woman," that is to say,
not one of the family of cranks.
A crank is a monomaniac who believes in perpetual motion, or in
squaring the circle, or in the flatness of the earth, or also in other things
we deem more proveable. To be labelled a crank is to ensure ostracism
from any worthy scientific society. Albeit numerous species of this
family of cranks hover around every scientific ga.thering in America,
trying to air their hobbies whenever opportunity occurs. It is,
therefore, not surprising to find the careful attempts which are always
made by the responsible officials to steer clear of these irrepressible
unfortunates. It was a novel and gratifying experience to find I had
so far escaped being included among the circle-squarers.
On the hottest day of the hottest weekknownin Philadelphia for many
years, my paper came on. Speaking in a large hall for an hour at mid-
day, with the thermometer at 96~, is a task I never wish to try again.
Notwithstanding the heat there was an interesting discussion after-
wards, and a very full report in .the local papers. The only
objections were raised by two English biologists, one of
whom remarked that if Thought-transference were true he would
have to abandon science, as it was opposed to all we knew; and he
ended with a triumphant challenge: "I have written five figures
down; let Professor Barrett tell me forthwith what they are,
and th~n I will ?oncede there may be something in the claim he makes
Digitized by Google
Nov., 1884.] Jourlaal 0/Society/or Psychical Research; 175
on our credulity"-a.n argument which one expects to hear from a
newspaper editor, but not from a scientific man, as I had especially
disclaimed the possession of any abnormal powers. The President of
the section,in closing the discussion,pointed out that the natural feeling
of incredulity should not stand in the way of evidence, but he urged a
larger accumulation of evidence from various observers.
After this we had two meetings in the Lafa.yette Hotel to discuss
the work of the Society for Psychical Research. Among others present
at one or other meeting, I may name Professor Simon Newcomb,-the
distinguished astronomer-Professor E. C. Pickering, Professor W. H.
Pickering, Professor Morse, the President of the Anthropological
Section; Dr. Minot, Professor Peckham, Professor Fullerton,
Professor Harkness, of Washington; Professor Brewer, Dean of Yale
University; Professor Rains, Dean of University of Georgia; Pro-
fessor Graham Bell, of telephone fame; the editor and publisher of
Science, the leading scientific journal in the State,_ and others.
In the little preliminary gathering, Professor Newcomb urged the need
of extreme caution in arriving at any conclusions,pointing out how pure
chance coincidences must inevitably come in as a misleading factor in
the collection of evidence bearing on what appeared to ~e truth-telling
dreams and hallucinations."" For a couple of hours matters were dis-
cussed, and I was glad to elicit from one and the other a serious and
decided opinion as to the importance of scientific inquiry into the sub-
jects before our Society, and in some cases a hearty, in others a guarded
approval of forming a similar society, or a branch of our English
Society, in the States.
At the second meeting, invitation to which was put ill the local news-
papers, reporters were present, and after I had spoken, a resolution was
moved by Dr. Minot, and seconded by Dr. Parrish, the editor of the
American Journal 01 Psychology, that it was desirable to form a
Psychical Research Society in America. A local committee was then
proposed, the names on it having been very carefully selected by Pro-
fessor CarviIl Lewis. Mr. Pearsall Smith, a respected merchant in
Philadelphia, who was present at the meeting and warmly in favour of
the project, consented to act as hon. sec. Professor Fullerton's admir-
able speech from the chair ought not to pass without notice.
* Professor Newcomb has since extended and published his remarks in
&i8ncc for October 17th, 1884. Professor Newcomb remarked that he wa.s in
these matters a "confirmed" sceptio, to whioh Professor Lodge, whose weighty
support I wa.s glad to have at the earlier meeting, replied that "he presumed,
therefore, Profel!lOr Newcomb had already satisfied himself by experiment." "By
no means, I have not made a Bingle experiment," replied Profe880r Newcomb·
" Then I may take it," rejoined Professor Lodge" that you are an 'Unconjlf'1lletl
eceptio."
176 Journal o/8ociet!l/01' P8!1chical Re8earch. [Nov•• 1884.
Boston, which was well represented at our little gathering, feU iii
ought not to be behind Philadelphia, and hence I was asked to go over
there and hold a similar meeting, to which I agreed.
Before leaving Philadelphia the Committee met at l\Ir. P. Smith's
house, and after arranging for future work, they expressed a wish
to witness some mesmeric experiments. I agreed to try, and
luckily a lady present turned out to be a most admirable subject.
Though she had never been mesmerised before, in less than 10 minutes
she was utterly unable to open her eyes, and fell into that early
hypnotic state when the subject's reason and experience are unable tQ
withstand any grotesque suggestion made by the mesmeriser. Giving
her salt with the assurance that it was sugar, and vice versd, she
heartily endorsed what I said, but added, "How extremely curious this
is: I know it is a lump of sugar you have given me by its shape,
but it is so intensely salt that I really cannot bear to eat it." On
telling her to open her eyes, I showed her the sugar and salt, and
offered her the choice; and so anxious was she for more salt, saying
"the salt was really deliciously sweet," that she would have emptied
the salt cellar. Similar perversion of taste with regard to mustard
and biscuit, milk and vinegar, was exhibited. Perversion of
sight and judgment were then tried, and repeating an experiment I
had made long ago, I placed some shoes on a chair, and told her to look
at me, as I was about to jump into the shoes and float round the room.
On asserting that I was actually doing so, she exclaimed, " Well, that
is the oddest thing I have ever experienced. I know you are standing
close by me, but I see you near the ceiling, with your head towards
the curtains, floating horizontally. I see you up there perfectly clearly;
now" (at my suggestion) "you are coming down." l\Iakinga few reverse
passes, she was quite free from the power of being deluded. and yet the
recollection ofher experience was ~ vivid as possible, and still remains
so. Upon awakening, it was most comical to see the curiosity with
which she afterwards cautiously tried a little sugar to see if it had
regained its sweetness.
Though these experiments were of the most elementary and perfectly
well·known character, yet they excited much interest, partly. no
doubt, as affording a plausible explanation of certain spiritualistic
phenomena.
From Philadelphia I went to Boston, to fulfil my promise. Harvard
University is at Cambridge, a suburb of Boston, and among the pro-
fessors at Harvard few carry more weight than the head of the
Astronomical Observatory, Professor E. C. Pickering, a man still young,
hut of great sobriety of judgment, genial manner, and of wide attain-
ments. Hence it was peculiarly fortunate that it was under his auspices
Nov.,lSS4.] Journal of Society for P81/cMcaIRe8earcll. 177
that the work of our Society was introduced to the Harvard University
and to the members of the American Academy at Boston. It was also
a happy accident t!lat our distinguished members, Professor Crouch
Adams and Mrs. Adams, were staying with Professor Pickering at the
tinle. A preliminary private meeting was held at Dr. Minot's house
in Boston, at which I met Professor Stanley Ha.ll, of Johns Hopkins
University, Professor W. James, of Harvard, and one or two others.
Professor James, who is the brother of the eminent novelist, was already
acquainted with our hone sec., Mr. Edmund Gumey, and had read
the earlier parts of our Proceedings with much interest.
To the larger meeting in the American Academy, a body which to
some extent corresponds to our Royal Society, a printed invitation
was issued to the members, signed by Professor Pickering, Dr. Minot,
and Mr. Hodges, who is the acting editor of the jouma.l Science. We
had a select and fair gathering of scientific and literary men, including
Professors James, Runkle, Minot, Watson, Dolbea.r, Ha.ll, W. H.
Pickering; Professor E. C. Pickering was in the chair. After I had
. spoken, a. resolution was moved and carried, that a committee be formed
~ consult as to the best means of carrying on the work of Psychical
Research in America, and to arrange a basis of co-operation with our
English Society. The names of the Committee, all of whom agreed to
act, were as follows :-
Professor E. C. Pickering, Chairman; Professor Stanley Hall,
Professor of Experimental Psychology in John Hopkins University,
Baltimore; Professor W. James; Professor H. P. Bowditch, M.D.;
Professor W. Watson; Professor C. S. Minot, M.D. ; Professor Hyatt;
:Mr. Scudder; and Mr. Hodges, hon. sec.
Dr Bowditch is a physiologist of European repute; he is Dean of
the Harvard Medical School and Professor of Physiology. Professor
W. Watson, the Hon. Sec. of the Academy, kindly allowed all corre-
spondence to be addressed to him at the Acadetny.
The main difficulty seems to be the want, in America., of persons
able and willing to devote their time to the work merely for the work's
sake. To meet this difficulty, one gentleman present offered to give
50Odol. (,£100) towards the payment of a secretary.
Whilst at Boston, I received a telegram from Montreal, stating
arrangements had been made for a meeting at the Windsor Hotel,
Montreal, where I might expect a good audience of those anxious to
hear of the work of the Society for Psychical Research; so I started off
by the night mail, and on arriving found a large room full of people.
After my address, a resolution.was moved that a local committee be
formed to interest theC"",adiam.. public in the work of Psychical Re-
search. An able and ener~ic Odord graduate, a Mr. S. W. Boodle,
Digitized by Google
178 Journal of Society/or PS.1/ckical Reseal·cll.. [Nov•• l.8SI.
agreed to act as hon. sec., and a committee was formed consistingof a
number of influential residents in Montreal.
Undoubtedly the general feeling of those I met with was tha.t of
good will towards us; in some cases rising to an earnest wish to
help us.
In conclusion, let me say I am afraid I have nothing more to show
for my tour in America, than the kindling in new quarters of, I hope.
a frllitful interest in our Society; if any results should accrue from my
visit it will be due, not so much to the sma.u efforts I may have made,
as to the dignity and support which is given to the objects of the
Society by the officers and members of the Society itself, and to the
fearless love d truth which is the motto of the Society.
Mr. F. W. H. l\Iyers then read the first of what is intended to be
a series of two or three papers, "On a Telepathic Explanation o/some so-
called Spirittl4listic Phenomena." This first paper dealt mainly with
cases of automatic writing. where the substance of, what is written,
although not consciously in the writer's mind, is such as may conceivably
have originated in that mind. This led to a description of unconscious
cerebration, to which the speaker was disposed to ascribe a yet further
range of action than had been claimed for it by Dr. Carpenter and
others. The value of the little instrument called "Planchette" was
explained to lie in its enabling feeble impulses to automatic writing to
maDifest themselves without the check which the conscious mind of the
writer imposes when he perceives what is being unconsciously written.
In conclusion, some cases were given where the matter written included
names or allusions which the writer's brain could not be conceived as
supplying. In the instances cited other persons had been present~whose
minds could have furnished these names, &c.; and it was urged that
telepathic influence had here come into play. Further instances of,
this kind were promised in a second paper; the speaker, however,
intimating that there were some still stranger recorded cases where even
the telepathic explanation would scarcely cover the alleged facts.
The practical lesson to be drawn was that a great number of accu-
rate experiments withPlanchette should be forthwith made; the primary
object being to test the existence of telepathic influence on automatic
writing, by trying whether the Planchette can be made to write
words fixed on by other persons present, who are not themselves touching
the Planchette, and who give no hint as to the word which they have
chosen. This experiment may have a scientific .value; whereas the
usual aimless questions asked of Planchette, as though some superior
source of intelligence were present, are likely to end only in disappoint-
ment and absurdities.
Digitized by Google
NOY.,l884.] Journal oj Society/or P8ychical Resea,·ck. 179
PIa.nchettes can be procured from 14, Dean's Yard, at 2s. 6d. each,
and reports of experiments therewith should be sent to Mr. F. Yr. H.
Myers, or to the Secretary of the Committee of Thought-traIisference.
Another General Meeting was held at Queen Anne's Mansions, on
Friday, November 14th, at 4.30 p.m., the President in the chair. This
meeting was open to Members and Associates only, no strangers being
admitted. The business was the First Report oj tlUJ Oommittee
on T!UJoBophical P1UJnomena, a portion of which was read by Mr.
F. W. H. Myers.
This Report, as already announced, is to be circulated among
Members and Associates only. The concluding portion is to be read at
a General Meeting (from which strangers will again be excluded), at
Queen Anne's Mansions, on Friday, November 28th, at 4.30 p.m., and
it is hoped that the Report and Appendices will be in the hands of
Members shortly after that date.
The portion of the Report which was read on the 14th was mainly
concerned with the alleged "astral excursions" of Mr. Damodar K.
Mavalankar, one of which had been prominently brought under the
notiCE' of the Society for Psychical Research, at a General Meeting on
May 28th. The sequel to tha.t incident was described at length. Some
alleged English cases of voluntary "projection of the double," or
intentional apparition of one person to another, were also detailed, .and
their analogy with the Indian cases discussed. Some conversation
followed, and the President pointed out the important element which
any evidence of definite intention imports into telepathiQ apparitions.
The conclusion of the Report, to be read on November 28th, will
treat of the alleged apparitions and powers of the Mahatmas. The
Coulomb esclandre will also be discussed.
Digitized by Google
180 Journal Qf Societ!llol" PS!lcltical Researcll. [Nov•• l.8S&.
CAMBRIDGE BRANCH OF THE S.P.R.
Members and Associates
of the Society who have joined the Cambridge Branch.
Professor Sidgwick, LLD., Hillside. Chesterton Road, President.
Mrs. Sidgwick, Hillside, Chesterton Road.
Oscar Browning, M.A., King's College, SeC"t'etat'1J'
F. W. H. Myers, M.A., Leckbampton House.
Mrs. F. W. H. Myers, Leckbampton House.
R. Hodgson, B.A., St. John's College.
W. W. R. Ball, M.A., Trinity College.
Professor Adams, The Observatory.
Mrs. Adams, The Observatory.
J. J. Thomson, M.A., F.R.S., Trinity College.
W. Bateson, B.A., St. John's College;
Miss Johnson, Llanda.1f House, Regent Street.
W. E. Johnson, B.A., Llandaff House, Regent Street.
J. P. Postgate, M.A., Trinity College.
H. T. Stearn, M.A., King's College.
E. C. Perry, M.A., King's College.
G. Bidder, Trinity College.
Mrs. Passingham, Milton.
Rev. W. Cunningham, M.A., 2, St. Paul's Road.
The Hon. Mrs. Lyttelton, Selwyn College.
Dr. Cunningham, 2, King's Parade.
Professor Macalister, M.D., F.R.S., 5, Harvey Road.
A. Paschkoff, Trinity College.
D. N. Pollock, King's College.
H. N. G. Bushby, Trinity College.
G. E. Wherry, M.B., M.C., Corpus Buildings.
C. S. Kenny, M.L., Downing College.
R. W. Hogg, B.A., St. John's College, 'l'recuure-;' and Librarian.
W. P. Workman, B.A., Trinity College.
S. L. Hart, lI.A., St. John's College.
Mrs. Latham, 17, TrumpingtonStreet.
E. R. Debenham, Trinity College.
P. A. Robin, B.A., St. John's College.
R. N. Goodman, B.A., St. John's College.
G. F. Stout, B.A., St. John's College.
/ Mrs. Eaden, Little Shelford.
J. Cox, M.A., Cavendish College.
Miss C. J ebb, Girton College.
Miss L. Jones, Girton College.
Digitized by Google
Nov., 18M.] Journal Qf Society lor P81Jchical Ruef,,·ch. 181
Miss Morris, Girton College.
G. H. Milnes, M.B., Addenbrooke's Hospital.
J. J. Withers, King's College.
A. G. Stevenson, Trinity College.
Rev. Dr. Lumby, Grantchester.
Affiliated Members of the Cambridge Branch.
Mrs. Prothero, 63, Trumpington Street.
M. R. James, King's College.
G. L. Dickinson, B.A., King's College.
Rev. J. Southward, M.A., St. Catharine's College.
C. R. Ashbee, King's College.
G. W. Hodgson, Trinity College.
H. C. Goodhart, M.A., Trinity College.
Rev. W. J. Ball, M.A., 6, Pemberton Terrace.
W. H. Stone, King's College.
H. H. Daniells, King's College.
J. Brough, B.A., Downing College.
W. B. Ransom, B.A., Trinity College.
A. V. Baillie, Trinity College.
W. H. T. Gwatkin, B.A., King's College.
R. J. Lucas, Trinity College.
Sir John Stirling Maxwell, Trinity College.
L. R. Holland, King's College.
Sidney de Vere Beauclerk, Trinity College.
C. Whitbread, Trinity College.
J. G. Owen, B.A., Corpus Christi College.
Miss B. Lindsay, Fenl Cottage, Huntingdon Road.
H. Walford, Trinity College.
T. W. Arnold, Magdalene ,college.
Hameed Ullah, Christ's College.
Meetings are held once a. fortnight during tenn. They are open:
to Members and Associates of the Parent Society who have joined the-
branch, and to Affilia.ted Members. These last are elected by Members.
only, and pay a subscription of.five shillings per tenn. GrouPil may be
fonned under the direction of the Parent Society for purposes of
experiment.
Digitized by Google
182 Journal Qf Sociefyfor P8.Plckienl Re8earch. [Nov., 1884.
------------------------------------------------
SPECIMENS OF THE CLASSIFICATION OF CASES FOR
"PHANTASMS OF THE LIVING."
VII.
In the preceding papers we have made a rapid survey of the classes
of cases where a phanta.sm. has been perceptible to one person only,-
individual, or particular, cases. We have styled those cases individual
where the nature of the impression itself was such that there was no
antecedent probability that it would be shared by others, even admitting
that it had an objective basis. We styled those cases particular where
the percipient's experience, if in any sense objective, might have been
-expected to be shared by certain other persons present, but was not so
shared.
The logical correlative to these particular cases will consist of
.collective cases; where the experience is, in fact, shared by all the
persons who might be expected to share it if it represented an objective
fact.
But before we reach the collective cases we have to deal with a large
mass of cases which cannot be classed either as particular or as collective,
because we do not know whether other persons besides the actual
percipient would have perceived the phantasm or not, the percipient
having been alone at the time.
These we will call neutral cases. And it will plainly be right to
include amongst them the cases 'where some other persons were present
indeed, but asleep, or occupied in such a way that it is doubtful
whether the phantasm (had it been a real human voice, or an ordinary
intruder) would have attracted their attention.
Now in the first place we must observe that these neutral cases are
very numerous in proportion either to particular cases or to collective
-cases. Among 530 cases analysed in our Provisional Index No. I
there were about 250 neutral cases to 40 particular cases, and 100 col-
lective. That is to say, out of every eight of these quasi-objective
phantasms, five are alleged to havemanifested themselves when the per-
-cipient was alone; two to have been seen or heard by several per-
.(:ipients together; and one to have been perceived by one person, but
not by others who were present. Now if this proportion depended
simply on the number of liours of solitude per diem in ordinary lives,
it would give us fifteen solitary hours out of the twenty-four, a
number probably larger than the real average.
To judge, then, by this statistical indication, it would seem as
though these phantasms occurred more readily to persons alone and
quiet than to persons in company. And this is what we might
-expect a priori on the telepathic theory. For we have shown
that it is probable that our veridical hallucinations will, as far
Digitized by Google
Nov., 1884.] JOUl·llal of Society for P8ychical Re8earch. 183
as possible, follow the ordinary laws of mere illusive halluci-
nations, and these latter certainly occur most readily when the
percipient is alone. To a certain extent, however, this argument cuts
Doth ways. For if (as we must suppose probable) some of our alleged
cases are cases of pure illusive hallucination, decked out by subsequent
im&eaination into an appearance of having been veridical, then these mal-
recollections would probably group themselves around some solita"J
moment, and so would swell the list of neutral cases. It is easier, that
is to say, to fancy that one saw a ghost when one was lying in bed in a
lonely room than to fancy that one saw a ghost when one was sitting
at dinner. Many of our neutral cases, in short, are nocturnal cases;
and night is the time for false apparitions as well as for true ones.
But there is another point which seems to indicate that solitude
and quiet afford real facilities for the presentation of the truth-telling
pbaD.tasms with which we are concerned. There are a good many cases
,vhere the phantasm is observed some time after the apparent death
of the agent,-we may even say some little time after his actual bodily
death. Now in these cases the phantasm seems almost always to await
a quiet moment,-generally at night,-for its appearance; and it seems
plausible to suppose that the impression, received perhaps at the
moment of the friend's death, has gone through a period of incubation
in some sub-conscious region of the percipient's mental activity, and is
developed or externalised as soon as the stimuli of active existence have
ceased to engross the brain. But the force of this argument again
is somewhat weakened by our ignorance as to the true nature of these
apparently post-mortem appearances. We are at present dealing with
apparitions of the living only (including persons at the moment of
death) ; and we have good reasons for thinking this a prudent limit to
draw, inasmuch as this evidence for apparitions of the living is in several
ways stronger than the evidence for post-mortem apparitions. But we
must remember that this limit is an arbitrary one, fixed by ourselves;
and that while we are treating death as the limiting point of appari-
tions, it may be merely the point of maximum frequency of appari-
tions; and the phantoms seen a few hours after death may be not
the mere developed images of the death moment, but images freshly
excited by some cause which has come into operation since the death
moment. We must not, in short, base negative conclusions on a mere
working hypothesis. We must remember that death may have not
only a momentary, but persistent phantasmogenetic efficacy. Here
again, in short, as so often before, we are made to feel that, although a.
definite demarcation of our subject into many provinces is practically
indispensable, we can never hope to master anyone province until we
have widely explored the rest.
Digitized by Google
184 Journal qf Society for Psychical Re&earch. [Nov., 1884.
But to whatever causes this accumulation of our so-called" neutml "
cases is due, it has at any mte this convenience, that it enables us to
cnter with fairly abundant material on a classification of phantasms in
one way more minute than any which we have as yet attempted. We
shall armnge them in a serie::; which will have reference partly to their
ahsolute simplicity or complexity,andpartly totheplausibility with which
their details can be referred to the percipient's mind rather than the
agent's. We shall begin with what may be called the phantasm reduced
to its elements-the rudimentary, unrecognisable sound or sight which
has no obvious connection with.any given person whatever, and needs
an appeal to a precise time-coincidence to show its veridical chamcter.
That is to say, if A hears a loud inexplicable noise, there is nothing to
make him think of B; but if B is found to have died at that very
moment, a time-coincidllllCe is established which renders the possibility
of a causal connection worth considering. Beginning, then, with these
rudimentary, unrecognisible phantasms, we shall take first th& auditory
instances, as mnking in a certain sense below the visual; since among
mere morbid hallucinations those of hearing are so much the
commonest.
But we shall soon find that in our perplexing subject, simplicity
from one aspect by no means implies simplicity from other aspects as
well. Considered as a mere sensory percept, nothing can well be much
simpler than the cmck of a whip. But considered as a psychical
phenomenon, its various analogies, and the circumstances under which
it is alleged to have been observed, render it perplexing in a high degree.
We will begin with an instance illustmting the way in which this
sound apparently occurs as a form of death-wraith. The name of our
correspondent must be withheld, as his mother is still living in great
age and infirmity.
In the autumn of 1874 my elder brother, W.M., resided in Edinburgh
with his wife and family. Taking advantage of the temporary absence of
his household on a Tisit to Gla.gow, htl went to stay for a few days with a.
married sister who lived in the country, 18 miles east from town. Prel'ious
to this time he had been subject, at irregular intervals, to attacks of illness
of a severe character, but, at the date at which I write, was in fair health,
and attending to business. Two or three days after his arrival at our sister's
house he was quite unexpectedly seized, late one evening, with serious ill-
ness, hematemesis supervened, and within two or three hours from the first
seizure he was a corpse. The late hour, and distance from the railway station,
prevented any communication during the night with our household in
Edinburgh. My brother's wife being also expected to join him in the country
next day, it was judged Rdvisable to convey the intelligence to her en route,
in case after receipt of it she might be unable to make the jourlley. I men.
tion these latter facts to show that on the night when my brother's death
Nov., 1884.] Journal ofSocidtl/ for P8yckical Re8earcll. 186
actually occurred, no intelligence of it could pouibly have reached our
Edinburgh house, where my &Iled father and mother at that tinle were
reaiding, and also, for the night, my brother's wife on her way from
Glasgow.
Between 11 and 12 o'clock that night my mother, aged tllen 72, but
aetive and vigorous in body and mind, as indeed IIhe is still, was alone in
her bedroom and in the act of undrcBBing. She occupied this room alone,
and it was the only sleeping apartment on the dining·room fiat which was in
use that nigbt, the only other bedroom there being the adjoining room,
then untenanted, owing to my own absence in the North. My father, eldest
brother, and sister·in·law occupied rooms on the fiat above. 'l'he servants'
accommodation was in the under, or sunk fiat beneath, shut off from tho
upper by a swing door at the foot of a ftight of steps. A small dog, the
oBly other inmate of the house, slept that night, and indeed always, in the
kitchen. My mother was in her usual good health, her faculties perfectly
preserved, and her mind untroubled with any apprehensions of evil tidings.
She had read, as usual, " portion of her Bible, and was in the act of un·
dreBBing, when she was suddenly startled by a most extraordinary noise at
the door of her room, which opened directly into the inner lobby. It was
as if made by a person standing directly outside and close to the door, but
it was utterly unlike any ordinary summons or alarm. In her own words
it was"like nothing so much as the noise of someone hastily and imperiously
lashing the door with a heavy riding whip, demanding admittance. It was
loud, and repeated three or four times, as if insisting on attention, with brief
intervals between. Then it ceased.
1\-ly mother, though pOBBeBBed of considerable coolness, was startled, but
with a resolution which many might envy, she proceeded to light a candle,
knowing the hall lights were extinguished, the whole of the inmates having
before retired for the night, and went to the door. "I knew," she said,
"that it was no one in the house seeking admission. Such an imperative
summons would never have been made at my door." On opening it nothing
was visiblo, the various doors opening on the lobby were closed, and the
fastening of the front door undisturbed. Much surprised, though retaining
aelf'possession, my mother debated with herself a8 to rousing the other memo
bers of the family, but ultimately resolved not to do so unless the sound was
repeated, which it was not. It was about midnight, but my mother did not
note the precise hour and minute, Early next forenoon, my father and
sister.in·law having left, the news came that my brother had expired at
midnight, 18 miles off by road from Edinburjlh.
It may be noted that nothing near or in the door could possibly havo
occasioned the noise in question, the material being old, well·sessoned
timber not liable to warp or crack. It afterwards appeared that the noise
in question had not been heard by anyone in the house save by my mother,
which no ooe will wonder at who knows how perfectly" deafened old-
fashioned stone houses in Edinburgh invariably are.
Speaking for my own part, I would not have placed so much reliance 011
the nvrative which I have from my mother's own lips, had it come from
any other person in the house. The others might have been imaginstive or
nervous, or wise after the event, or possibly wholly mistaken. But with my
Digitized by Google
186 Journal oj 8oc~t!/ for P,!/clucal Research. [Nov., 18St.
mother's clear and balanced judgment, little alfected by matters which
powerfolly sway others, I have no room for hesitation whatsoever. I believe,
as firmly &8 I believe in the fact of my own existence, that the circumstances
happened exactly as shenarrated them, and also, in her instinctive feeling. at
the time of their occurrence, that the BOund in question W'AJ not accidental or
catJBeCl by any agency of which we have present cognisance, I believe she
11'88 right.
Now if this case had stood alone, or nearly alone, we might have
been contented to point out the inexplicable bizarrerie of this form of
announcement of death,-if such it be-without attempting to expla.in
it any more than one would attempt to explain the imagery of a casual
dream. But the case does not stand alone. We have printed about a
dozen cases more or less closely analogous. Many such occur in the
existing collections, and we have come across many more, especially
among the poorer cwses, which we have not recorded in detail.
In short, this wl~ip-Bound is almost as common as a call, almost as
common as a drowning man's dripping phantom; and it is surrounded,
moreovt:-r, by a whole range of cognate sounds,-heavy blows on a wall,
bangs on the floor, the rattle of gravel at a window, &c. Now, of
course we are, strictly speaking, entitled to class all these sounds as vary-
ing kinds of summons, externalised in this form by the percipient's
own mind, under the shock of the telepathic impact. But we must
observe that the analogies of morbid hallucinations do not support us.
here; and that, on the other hand, there are new and perplexing
analogies which in any comprehensive view of our subject we cannot
ignore.
In morbid hallucinations a fancied call is a very common thing.
The sound of one's own name is obviously the most likely of all sounds
for a sudden act of attention to summon up. And, again, the morbid
hallucination of the insane often takes the form of an imagined loud
noise ascribed to devils or persecutors. But in these morbid cases there
are probably intra-cranial noises-real hummings and buzzings-which
the diseased mind transforms into an external din. Itwould be hard to
find cases where a single isolated crash or short series of crashing sounds
has been thus morbidly externalised.
On the other hand, there are two directions where phenomena
parallel to these lashings and hangings are frequently attested. The
whip-sounds are one of the commonest alleged occurrences in haunted
houses. And the bangs or rappings seem to pass by continuous grada-
tions into the raps which form the staple phenomenon of Spiritualistic
seances.
This is not the place for any attempt to trace out this parallel in
detail. One instance will suffice to show how hard it may be in con-
crete cases to distinguish. between the phenomena which accompany
Nov., '884.] Journal f!f SociRt!/ lo1' P8ycldc'll Rt'8f'flJ'ch. 181
dissolution and those which are asserted to remain, as it were, adherent
to some special locality.
The narrative-drawn up }'y a daughter of the percipient-is as
follows :-
I cannot, unfortunately, introduce you to a spectre, and it is difficult to
eonvey an accurate impreuion of the mysterious annoyances at myoid home,
which appealed rather to touch and hearing than to sight. They were none the
less real and distreuing. It was difticult for my mother to keep her servants
any length of time, and guests seldom renewed their visits to th~ rectory.
Phantom feet trod the paaaages at night and were heard ascending the
staircases, lOCka turned, doors opened and closed. furniture appea.red to be
dragged about in unoccupied rooms, viewleu hands rustled the bed-curtains
and moved &crou the pillows. Sometimes weird, unearthly screams echoed
through the house j and these manifestations were not confined to the hours
(If night. But these are generalities. I will now state a particular incident
which appean.d to point to influences beyond the ken of our philosophy.
My father was not the incumbent; he was only the curate-in-charge.
The rector, a wealthy country squire of old family, although he drew nearly
£1,200 a-year from the living, resided on his own estate, never did any
ehurch duty, and left the parish entirely in my rather's hands, merely paying
him a friendly visit now and then. On one of these visits, when he came
accompanied by his wife, my mother eagerly invited the opinion of the latter
about the noises which so often disturbed our rest, and proved a constant
source of terror to the servants. "I have no opinion to offer," she replied ;
" all I know is that the house has so long enjoyed the reputation of being
haunted that, in the case of servants, one might suggest superstition, work-
ing on an already excited and expectant imagination; but this easy solution
is, of course, inapplicable either to strong-minded persons like yourself snd
Mr_ V---, or to those who had never heard the reports, like your visitors.
One of the "current legends you may some day have the opportunity of
verifying, though I trust that that day is far distant. According to this
tradition, no sooner does a rector of B--- die, than a strange, incompre-
hensible sound proceeds from the landing of the front staircase. This noise,
I am told, has been compared tothe slashes of a cart-whip falling on a metal
tube." This unromantic comparison excited more merriment than credulity,
and the matter was soon forgotten.
A good many montha had elapsed, when one autumnal evening, about 9
p.m., my mother was startled by a most unusual disturban;:e: the loud
.lashes of a whip on some metallic substance echoed through the paaaage and
down the stairs. Noone was to be aeen anywhere, and the origin of the
sound could not be traced. Two days later, my father received theltidinga of
his rector's sudden death. The day and hour of this quite unexpected event
eoincided with the predicted supernatural warning•.
At the time of the rector's sudden death he W&8 on a visit to "a country
seat at least 50 miles from the rectory. He W&8 apparently in hia usual
health and spirits until the moment of the seizure, which in" half-an-hour
ended fatally. Railways and telegraphs were not, and the place W&8 16
miles from a coach-road.
Digitized by Google
188 JOllrllal of SlJCiet!.1 for P8!lchical Re8earch. LNov., 1884-
We may perhaps suggest that in this case some unconscious anticipa-
tion on l\frs. V.'s part determined the character of the sound in which a.
telepathic impact shaped itself. But if the evideace is to be taken as
it stands, the whip-sound seems closely bound up with the cognate
noises which already distinguished the rectory. Now suppose, on the
other hand, that we give to these loud cracks or slashes their most
obvious interpretation,-as intended simply as a startling mode of
arresting the percipient's attention. May we then still ascribe this
sudden sound to the percipient's own mind, a sub-conscious region of
which has received the telepathic message and seeks instinctively to
externalise that message in a fonn which shall at any rate compel at-
tention 1 We might compare the instinct of the man in a nightmare,
who vaguely tries to knock over a candlestick in order to wake himself
with the clatter. On this view one would expect to find that the noise
was sometimes not meaningless, like a rap or slash, but referred to
some object familiar to the percipient, as the breakage of china and the
like, which might be selected by the percipient's unconscions mind as
likely to find his conscious mind most promptly on the alert. I may
explain my meaning by citing an account given to me by an elderly
woman in her cottage at Little Gransden, near Cambridge. She told
me how, as she was lyiilg in bed one morning, she heard the characteristic
crash of a falling earthenware porringer sounding from her little scullery
or larder, where her provision of milk stood. She leapt out of bed and
rushed to the larder, to find the porringer in its place, as usual. A
near relation died at about that time. I looked round the cottage, and
at t:1e pon'inger still standing in its place, and decided that had I
wished to rouse her suddenly, the oversetting of the porringer from its
shelf on to the stone floor would have been the readiest way:
A few more such cases we have,-mainly among uneducated
persons, ill whose narrow lives the thought of material' objects of this.
kind will often recur. Thus we have the jingling of glasses in a bar,
and the dancing of pots at the death of John Pott, though ill this.
latter case the psychical paronomasia looks a little suspicious.
But what amount of credit-we may as w~ll put the question
here as anywhere-is to be given to uneducated witnesses in matters
of this kind 1 The claSs of persons who send their children to public
elementary schools is officially defined as including six-sevenths of tbe
whole population. Considering the specific fact which is here
selected as defining this large class, it seems hard to brand
this vast majority of our fellow creatures as too uneducated to be
listened to. And in the criminal courts, of course, most of the witnesses
are of this calibre. But although a poor ignorant man's evidence is good
enough to hang his neigh~ur, it is hardly good enough (if I may so.
Digitized by Google
Nov., l884.] Journal of &ciet!/lor P81/ckical Re8etwch. 189
say) to raise him up again. Such, at least, is the view which I am
disposed to ta~e. I attach little weight to cases vouched for by one
uneducated person only; I feel bound to ask for some independent
corroboration by a mind more carefully trained. So long as our aim is
evidential first, and only in the second place theoretical, some such
distinction as this must probably be made. Yet, from the glimpses into
the psychical experiences of the IlumiliorI!J8 which our inquiries have
afforded to us, I venture to say that the genesis of apparitions, &c., is
not likely to be traced with any completeness until "popular super-
stitions" have been sifted far more thoroughly than has as yet been
attempted from any side.
But to return from this slight digression to the topic which
suggested it-namely, the amount of connection between these sudden
phantasmal noises and any such sound of breakage as the unconsciouS'
nrind might conceivably have chosen (so to say) in order to startle the
conscious mind,--our conclusion must be that, except among the poorer
classes, there is not as yet much evidence of any such connection. The-
typical noise of this group of narratives is certainly the apparently mean~
ingless lashings of a whip,or the familiar rappings, which are explained
by some writers as being simply an explosive noise, which is the sound
most easily produced by agencies operating on a " spiritual" or " akAsic "
basis of things. Such theories lie altogether outside our present scope.
But we must in fairness note that any telepathic explanation of these
sounds is pressed with the serious objection that we cannot as yet find
cases where one person has heard these lashings and others have not,.
while, on the other hand, we find many cases where several persons have
been present together, and all have heard the startling sound. Reserving
this constantly-recurring difficulty for later discussion, we may next
inquire whether these arbitrary noises are observed to shade into, or t()
connect themselves with, other forms of message or summons, which
bear a more recognn.able relation--a relation of something more than
mere syncltrtmism--to the catastrophe announced. Assuming, then, that
a loud sound, not directly suggestive of any particular person, is to ba-
the groundwork of the phenomenon, in what way can we imagine that
such sounds might indicate their telepathic origin1 The sounds ea:
hypothesi, must be vague,. but three modes suggest themselves. (1)
They might be vaguely symbolical,. (2) they might be vaguely represen-
tative--repercussive, we may call it, of cries, &c., actually uttered m.
the distant catastrophe; or (3) they might, though themselves meaning_
less, occur in close a8sociatitm. with some more definite phantasm.
And the evidence before us does, in fact, speak to the occurrence of
all these transitional cases. As an instance of incipient symbolism m.
a loud and startling noise we may cite the following case :-
Digitized by Google
190 JourJ,al ofSociety for P8!1qhical Researc". [Nov.,18S1.
Thill account, eent by Mrs. Brietzcke, is bom her aunt.
..August lit, 18~
My mother had been superintending the bathing of her children, and
'had Bent them up to bed. She waahed her handa in the bath they had and
turned half way back, and was drying her hands when ahe heard a great
-/lplarh as if someone had fallen into the bath. She looked round hastily, and
w.. amazed to find not a ripple on the water. She noted the time and date,
and afterwards learned that her brother had been drowned at that very
time, in a storm at se&. ThiB my mother related to me herself, when I was
a girl. R. A-N.
The evidence for this case is second-hand, but it is a daughter's ac
(lount of a brief and distinct incident, narrated by her mother. The
interest to us lies in the possibility that the presence of the bath, the
direction of the percipient's thoughts towards water, may have enabled
the telepathic impact to externalise itself, not in a mere crash or bang,
but in a splashing sound, vaguely symbolical of the actual manner of
death. What one would like to get, to illustrate this point, would be
the hearing of a pistol-shot or rifle-shot at the moment when a friend
was shot dead, or (so as to make sure that it was symbolism and not
psychical repercussion) at the moment when a friend died of the
-effects of a gun-shot wound. We have as yet no case of precisely this
type; but there is a certain interest in noting beforehand the types
which seem theoretically likely to occur.
Next, as to the gradual merging of vague noises into noises which .
reproduce the actual utterance of the agent at the time. The following
<lase seems precisely transitional :-
From Mrs. Purton, Field House, Alcester.
In the autumn of 1859 we were expectmg my youngest brother home
from Australia, after an absence of eight years. He was a passenger on
1I0aM the "Royal Oharter." The night, or rather in the early dawn of
the fatal morning of the wreck of that unhappy vessel, I suddenly started
()ut of my sleep and found myself !Jeizinghold of my busband's arm, horrified
at the most awful wail of agony, which appeared to me to fill the holUle.
Finding my husband still asleep-he was a medical man, and had been out
the whole of the previous night, so was unusually tired-I slipped out of
bed and ~ent round to look at all the children and to the servants'room, but
found all 4nietly sleeping, so thinking it must have been the wind only which
80 disturbed me, I lay dQwn again, bnt could not sleep. I noticed that
Gay was just breaking. In the morning I asked different people if they
had been disturbed by any unusual noise, but no one had heard it. The post
brought a letter from a cousin in Liverpool, telling us the ., Royal Charter"
was telegraphed as having arrived at Queenstown, and we might expect to
see Frank very ahortly. We passed the day in most joyful anticipations of
the meeting. My mcther had hiB room prepared, a good fire burning, and
JUs night-Bhirt and slippers laid out for use, and a nice supper ready. Wheels
Digitized by Google
Nov., 1884.] J()Umal oj Society for P81Jcklcal BuetJ.rck. 191
were heard, but, iDatead of Frank, my cousin appeared. - She, as soon as the
awful news of the wreck reached Liverpool, started oft' herself to bring us the
melancholy tidings. Even then I did not connect the fearful'soundl I heard
with the wreck, but when the newspapers came and I read the accounts of
the eye witnesses of the wreck, and of the screams which rent the air as the
ship broke her back and all on board were overwhelmed in the waves I could
only shudder and exclaim, "Tlu.T was what I heard." It was months be-
fore I could forget the horror which thrilled my very soul at the remembrance
of that awful night. A full month later my poor brother's bodywas recovered
with several others, and was brought home to be laid in the dear little
churchyard at KinWartoD. FlUlfCBS A. PURTON.
March 16tk.
In answer to inquiries, Mrs. Pnrton adds :-
I never have had, at any other time than the one I mentioned to you, a
vivid dream of death, or an auditory hallucination of any kind.
The following is an account from a letter written to Mrs. Purton by her
daughter, Miu Sarah Sophia Parton, who was about 12 years old at the
time:- .
I distinctly rememberyourspeakingofthecry of distreuyouheard when the
" Royal Charter" was lost. My remembrance of it is that you woke with
this cry ringing in your ears, and got up at once, quietly, without disturbing
my father, who had been out late somewhere to a patient. You found it waa
about 3 o'clock. You then went to the nursery and to each room where
anyone was sleeping, but finding all quiet and right you went back to bed.
I fancy you inquired next morning if anyone had heard the sound which
disturbed you, but could not swear to this.
The following evening came the letter from Alice telling of the wreck,
Aunt Jane having come from Birkenbead to break the news.
It may be remarked in passing that (as this narrative indicates)
there is often nothing to be learnt as to the subjective or objective
character of a noise, or other nocturnal disturbance, from the fact that
of two sleepers one is awakened by it and one is not. In this case the
tired man who was not awakened even by a grasp of his arm, would
probably not have been aroused had the shriek been real. On such
occasions the excited waker sometimes fancies that the companion's
stolid repose is in itself supernatural; but it is difficult to place limits to
that intensity of somnolence which has allowed so many sleepers to be
robbed, murdered, and burnt in their beds.
We shall find that the cry thus vaguely heard on the confines of sleep
and waking, and suggesting no definite catastrophe, no well-known voice,
reappears with clearer and clearer significance in other narratives, till
it is recognised, though still inarticulate, and gives its message without
need of speech.
Lastly, as regards the combination of a mere arbitrary sound with
other signs of more definite meaning, the following case precisely
illustrates my point.
Digitized by Google
192 Journal Of Societyfor P81JcAical Research., [Nov.• 1881.
From Mr. Thomas Hume. 109, Wa.rrender Park Road, Edinburgh.
A ugUIt 19th. 1884.
Daring a night in the year 1812, or thereabouta, 80mewhere about 1 or
2 o'clock, as my mother lay half awake. after her firIIt Bleep, aa it iB termed,
she Was suddenly startled and alarmed by a terrible crash on the window
of the bedroom, by which the whole glaaa was apparently shivered to pieces
in a moment j and immediately thereafter. as if in the diBtance, a low,
melancholy wail, though quite diBtinct, of "0 Vale, Vale." My mother. in·
great trepidation, inatantly awoke my father, and informed him that the
whole window waa smashed to pieces, so strongly waa the circumstance im-
preased on her mind, begging him to procure a light instantly and ascertain
what was wrong. for there was aome one outaide in terrible diBtresa. My
father immediately proceeded to make the neceaaary inveatigation and found
aa perhaps he somewhat ftxpected, the window quite intaet, nor was there
any storm,. the night being comparatively calm, to account for the delusion
under which my mother was labouring. She was, howevftr, terribly agitated
and inaiBted that inquiry should be mad" in the morning of the wife of thl'
csptain of a little veBBel in which they were all intereated, and who lived in
the town about a mile diBtant. Now, to underatand properly the full bearing
of all the circumatances attending the aingular phenomenon, it will be
neceaaary to relate aome previous circumstances and arrangementa entered
into betwixt m, father and cenain other partiea. My mother had a special
achool companion and friend of the name of "Vale" Fenwick (whatever.
contraction the Chriatian name may indicate) who married a young sailor
who had been employed as a ship captain, buthe had fallen out of employment
after their marriage, and, in order to get him a more lucrative appointment,
my mother, at her friend's instigation, induced my father to join him in pur-
chasing a nice little brig for £900, of which each paid the one-half. Theapeeu-
lation turned out a very satiBfactory one till tho time that the carious little
incident recorded abeve happened. In the morning following the little
epiaode related above, after a aleepleaa night, my mother'a nervoua agitation'
and anxiety for the safety of her early friend'a huaband, were little allayed,
and a meaaenger·Wa8 at once deapatched to inquire of the captain'a wife if she
had had recent intelligence from her husband. She replied that ahe
had had a letter from her huaband a few daya previously, from a port in the
Moray Firth, and that they were all well. Some little time afterwards, on
communicating with the authorities at the port, from which the captain'a Ia.st
letter had been aent, my father was informed that the veaael had sailed
thence, about eleven o'clock, at the flood-tide, without having mipped any
ballast, having only a short diBtance to sail to anotherport, where she was to
load a cargo, and this was ascertained to be on the very night on which my
mother'a singular illusion took place; and it was added that there was lI.
rnmour that a vessel of her size had been sighted by some boats setting out.
for the fishing early in the morning on her beam ends or bottom up, some-
where about 3 or 4 o'clock in the morning, and that she had settled
down before they had lost sight of her, and this was the last that ever was
heard of the ill-fated vessel or her crew. When the melancholy facts were
fairly brought home to the poor wife, she lost her reason for a time, and was
ever after ao nervous that she could never be trusted alone.
There waa no previous circumstance, whaiever, that could form an
aaaociation of ideas, or other connecting link, to account for the apparition,
or rather, telepathic (1) influence. Of conrae, my evidence is, in a manner,
aecond-hand, but as young people have always a hankering after the super-
natural or ghost stories, we induced my mother to relate the circumatances
to us over and over again, and all the minutilB aeemed quite indelible from
her mind, as naturally theloss of the money was a serious conaideration for
the family, even without the vexation for an early friend, sud,denly left in
Digitized by Google
Nov., 1884.] Journal of Society lor Psychical Bes(!Qrcl,. 193
ruin and despair. As these narrations generally took place in my father'.
presence, we had his acquiescence in all the circumstances; and as to my
mother's veracity, no one could possibly stand higher in the opinion of her
family as a lover of the truth.
In reply toinquiries Mr. Hume says :-
1believe the only hallucination of the kind ever experienced by my
mother, was the one of which I furnished you with the particulars..
Mr. Hume is trying to get corroborative evidence. He has ascer-
tained that the name of the ship was the Fingal, and that of the captain,
James Drysdale, anold man-of-war'. man.
If this case, which-though second-hand and somewhat remote-
seems carefully reported, be accepted as substantially true, it would
seem probable that the appalling crash was but a precursive summons
before the still voice of the last farewell.
F. W. H. MYERS.
THE AMERICAN JOURNAL SOIENOE ON PSYCHICAL
RESEARCH.
SCIENCE* is one of the most interesting and ably conducted
scientific journals in America. Though published in the United States,
it contains a lucid and excellent account of the progress made by
European as wl"ll as Transatlantic science, a.nd its typography and
illustrations are all that can be desired. We can heartily com-
mend this journal to those of our readers who wish for clear, succinct
and trustworthy information in various c!epartments Qf science.
To our members the journal is of special interest, as being the first
scientific journal of any position that has had the courage openly to
advoca.te 1(he cause of Psychical Research. In one of the earliest num-
bers of Science there appeanid a lengthy and appreciative review of
the first four parts of the Society's Proceedings, several of the diagrams
on Thought-transference being reproduced in its pages.. Another article
on Psychical Research in America, appeared in its columns on October
17th: the greater portion of this we have reprinted for the benefit of
our readers. The same number also contains .an able, but; we venture to
assert, in some respects wholly fallacious criticism on the work of the
SocietYi by Professor Simon Newcomb, to which our Hon. Secretary
bas replied. .
PSYCHICA L RESEARCH IN AMERICA.t
. ["A MEETING was held in Boston on September23rd,toconsidcr'the advis-
ability of forming an American Society for Psychical Research. Prof. W. F.
Barrett, a vice-president of the English society, was present, and gave au
account of the work in E~land. A committee was appointed to consider
the formation of a society In this country, or in what way it may seem best
to undert!l.ke the work; and at a meeting held last week, steps were taken
for the formation of a society in America, of which we hope soon to report
(he complete organisation."-Seienc6,October lOth'.,l884.]
, TBEadjective "psychical" h~ c~~e, through the use m&de of it by the
English Society·for Psychical Research, to be the' label for a special 01..1 or
* ScUtau PublllhfDg omce, 4, BODd Benet, New York. t Fro... SeW_. for October 1'1t1!, 18M_
Digitized by Google
194 Journal of ~ty f(/l' P,ychical Research. (Nov., 1884.
group of phenomeua, which to the unthinking are outright JD&n'e1lous, eveD
aW8lODle, and to the thoughtful, either intereeting or incredible, according
to the individual mental cut. A few Engliah lCientific men belieyed that
behind all the jugglerJand deception of Spiritualiam there larkd a founda-
tion of reality. perhapa groaly misinterpreted, but atill of reality. That
belief led to the formation of the active society named aboy.. the work of
which baa already been noticed in ~.
The evidence publiahed by this =goes to show that there are a
number of more or I.. rare psychol· eft"ecta which are moat ainguIar,
and 80 nnlike what the orthOdox pa,ychology of the ciay admitll, that no
explanation of them can yet be offered. The effects are mysterious, not only
as to their caD88, but &lao .. to their nature. One of them, hypnotima, 11'&8
lItill acoiFed at by the aeaaible until within a few yean, but ia now, by com-
mon conaent, admitted eYen into the society of the beat phenomena.
Another of them, Thought-tranaference. is IItill bagiDg for a general acknow-
ledgment of ita aood atanding, for there are those who avow their oW'D
wisdom through tne announcement of an unreuoned diabelief in the trans-
miaaion of thought from one penon to another by any except the ordinary
channela: if the transmilaion appear to occur, it is to be explained by 80me
trickery,-ao _y theae persona, and they haye done with the matter. Now,
among others of I.. prejudiced opinion an a number of American lCientific
menof acknowledged abilityand unquestioned integrity,who maintain that the
evidence in regard to this and other paychical phenomena cannot be thus
set aside by a vague general acdaaation, but calla for further and more rigid
inyestigation.
Prompted bythe enthnaiaam and auggestiona ·of Prof88lOr W. F. Barrett,
one of the moat active members of the Engliah society, and aupported by
their conviction of the seriona nature and value of pa,ychical inquiries, the
gentlemeD alluded· to above have decided to form aD American psychical
lOCiety to promote syatematic lItudy of the obaoure and abDormal facta
alleged to exist by trustworthy observers.
They join in this enterprise cautionaly, having previonaly satisfied them-
selves that the testimony is 80good that it mnat be received .. raiaing a aeriea
of problema, to settle which would be interesting and important. The
occurrence of Thought-transference is naturally met at first by sober minds
with incredulity; but, now the evidence on the subject is published, mere
incredulity no longer suffices; either to prove or to disprove the reality of
the tranaference would be eqnally desirable. If it be an error, it should be
unmasked; if it be a reality, the discovery malt appear to ua momentous.
In any case, there is a plain and interesting lCientiio duty to be performed.
* * * * * * •
To those gifted with a clearer intelligence and purer moral sense, there
ia a moral duty inoDe..pactof the proposed studiaL A hope that paychical
research may liberate us from a banef1ilsuperstition is a atimulus to inaugu-
rate the work of the American society ; yet a lCientific maD cannot calculate
all the after-effects of his labour, but must toil for ike truth with blind devo-
tion. It will be the endeavour of the new society to ascertain the truth in
regard to the alleged paychica1 phenomena, by meana of experiments of
unquestionable accuracy, conducted with unprejudiced independeDce; it will
try to steer _fely between the Soylla of acoffing and the Charybdis of
cliarlatan Spiritualism.
The names of the preaent leaden of the movement in America are &
aulicient guaranty that the investigationa will be thorough and aeriona; we
ahall await their outcome with great interest, and we hope, meanwhile, that
the society will receive liberal public support and encouragement.
Digitized by Google
Nov., 1884.] Journal oj Society for P8ychical Re8NWt:h. 195
In #rmoriam.
WALTER R. BROWNE, M.A., F.R.G.S., F.G.S.,
M. Inst. C.E., &c., Late Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge.
As we announced in the last number of the Journal, death
has suddenly removed from our midst a distinguished and valued
member of our Society, Mr. Walter Raleigh Browne. At the
early age of 42, in the midst of active work, he fell a victim to
typhoid fever whilst attending the meeting of the British
Association in Canada, and died in Montreal on September 4th,
1884. Only those who knew Mr. Browne intimately could form
any adequate idea of the wide range of his powers, the activity of
his many-sided mind, the breadth of his sympathies, and the
nobility of his character. The chivalrous consideration which he
showed for others, and his loyalty to truth led him to inquire into
and espouse movements that appeared to be unfairly dealt with
by the leaders of public opinion. It was this spirit that animated
his thoughtful and temperate speech on "Spiritualism," be-
fore the Church Congress at Newcastle in 1881. Invited to
attend the Conference which led to the formation of the Society
for Psychical Research, he came, and consenting to act on the
Provisional Committee gave much time to the organisation of
our Society. It was, indeed, a matter for congratulation that
from the outset the Society had the benefit of his wise judgment
and willing services, both on the Council, of which he was a
member from the foundation, and on the Physical Phenomena
and other Committees. ..
A few words on Mr. W. R. Browne's career may be of interest
to our readers. He won a Foundation Scholarship at Trinity
College, Cambridge, in 1863, graduated in 1865 as 19th wrangler
and 10th Classic, obtaining the Wrangham and Leigh gold
medal, and the Dealtry and College Prize for Greek Testament,
and finally gained his Fellowship of Trinity in 1867. After this
he studied engineering, and gained the Telford premium, and
subsequently the Telford gold medal and premium for important
original papers contributed to tae Institution of Civil Engineers,
and throughout the United Kingdom he was everywhere known
and highly esteemed by his professional brethren. In addition
to his engineering monographs, he contributed original papers
196 Journal of Society for Psychical Re.gearcA. {Nov., 1884.
to the Royal Society; the Physical Society, and the French
Academy. He also translated Clausius' classical work on the
"Mechanical Theory of Heat," and other foreign works, be-
sides writing and publishing two important engineering text
books of his own. Outside his professional work he found time
to contribute to numerous reviews and periodicals, to take an
active part in the Philological, the Physical, the Aristotelian
Societies, and the Alpine Club. besides our OW:t;l Society.
And as if this were not enough to tax his energies and
far-reaching interests, he threw himself heartily into the question
of emigration and of aid to discharged prisoners. Nor did this
exhaust the philanthropic and religious side of his nature; a book
on the" Inspiration of the New Testament," pApers to the Church
Congress, active work on, and lecturing for, the Christian Evi-
dence Society. the conception and organisation of the' important
conference of leading scientific men which met at Lambeth
Palace in 1881, under the presidency of the late Archbishop of
Canterbury. and the literary work that followed therefrom.-
these were some of the varied products of Walter Browne's zealous
and consistent Christian life. The·Guardian, in its hearty
. tribute to the memory of our friend, speaks of his other religious
activities, and the outstretching influence of his life. To his
wife and family we offer our sincere and respectful sympathy;
to them. and to all who knew him, his name will be ever enshrined
as that of a
"Just and faithful knight of God."
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
The /oZlotoing additiom haf76 been made aince Za8t month.
PROPlIBcms (German Popular) An Article in Blackwood's Editl.burqlr.
Magazine for May ...•................................•.......................... 185()'1!o
ZOIST ('rhe) A Journal of Cerebral Philosophy and Mesmerism.
13 vol. (A second copy.)...••••.•...•.....•........•.•.........London. 1844-56
BAUTY(Dr.) Force NeuriqueRayonnante. (pamphlet.)...•.....Pam. 1882
Yt1KG (illmile) Le Sommeil Normal et Ie Sommeil Pathologique
Pam. 1883
PUTT (Dr. Maximilian) Die sichtbare und die unsichtbare Welt
. Leipzig. 1881
SU?nA~:e)~~~::.~:·~.~~~.~~.~~~~..~~~.!~~~~~~~..~~.l~.~~~~~~u~:~; 1864
·Preeented by t.hd~ey. W. White&r.
Digitized by Google
