{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1958__betiero___nedoure_priestess_of_the_magi.pdf","mytitle":"Nedoure Priestess Of The Magi","mylang":"de"}
NEDOURE
PRIESTESS
of the
MAGI
or
BLAZING STAR
An HistoricalRomance Based on Records Elucidating
the ConflictBetween White and Black Magic;
Togetherwith Much of the Teachings
and Practicesof Both
By DR. J. T. BETIERO
FormerSupremeGrand Preceptorof theMagi
Introduction and Notes by
R. Swmnumn Curmzn, M.D.
Present Supreme Grand Maxter
Published by the
PHILOSOPHICAL PUBLISHING COMPANY
"BEVERLY HALL"
Quakertown, Penna.
Copyrighted 1958
BY BEVERLY HALL CORPORATION
“BEVERLY HALL”
Quakettown,Penna.
All Rights to Notes and Esoteric TeachingsReserved
NEWS E. WOOD, A. M., M. D.
THE HOLY PENTAGRAM‘
STAR OF THE MAGI
The Holy Pentagram or Star of the Magi, ac-
cording to Elphas Levi, the Great Initiate of
France,was known to theGnostic School as the
BLAZING STAR (L’Etolie flamhoyante); the
sign of the Intellectual Omnipotent Autocracy,
or SpirimallyenlightenedMatters.
The STAR OF THE MAGI is the Word Made Flesh, and ac-
cording to the direction of its rays, this absolute symbol repre-
sents Good or Evil; Order or Disorder; the Saving Lamb of
Ormund and Saint John, or the accursed Goat of Mendes.
It symbolizesInitiation or profanation.It is at once Lucifer
or Vesper, the Morning or Evening Star.
It is Mary or Lilith,victory or death, light or darkness.
When the Pentagram elevates two of its points, it, like the
reversed Triangle,represents Satan, or the Goat of the Mys-
teries; when it elevates the one point, it is theSTAR OF LIGHT;
representing theSaviour; goodness,virtue, adoration,reverence.
The Pentagram is the figure of the human body, with its
four limbs and a single point, representing the head.
The human figure with the head downward, naturally
represents a demon; intellectual overturning; misuse of the
intellect; disorder and final insanity. In the Magic of theMagi,
the Hidden Science of the Occultist, it is the veritable Law of
1 In the language of the Initiates, the Pentagram is also
known as theStar of Light when it represents or symbolizes the
regenerateman or Initiate.
8 NEDOURE
the three worlds. The Pentagram is an ABSOLUTEsign, old as
history, and more than history, exercises an incalculable in~
fluence over Souls.
The sign of the Pentagram is also called the sign of the
Macrocosm, and represents what the Kabbalists called Micro-
prorpos.
A complete understandingof thePentagramoffers man the
“key” to the two worlds. It is the absolute in philosophyand
science.
The Ancient Magi drew thesign of thePentagramon their
doorsteps to protect them against evils and to seek the help of
all thatis good.
The "G” which Ancient Freemasons placed in the center
of theBlazingStar signifiedtheGNOs1s and Generation.It also
symbolized the two Sacred Words; at the same time having
reference to the Grand Architect or UNIVERSAL BUILDER.All
the Mysteries of the Magi; all the symbols of the GNOSIS, all
the figures of Occultism, all the Kabbalistic keys of prophecy,
are summed up in the sign of the Pentagram, which was pro-
nounced by Paracelsusthegreatest and most potent of all signs.
Those who paid little heed to the sign of the Cross, trembled
at thesight of the Star of the Microcosm.
The whole revolutionarywork of modern times was sym-
bolicallyembracedby theNapoleonicsubstitution of theStar of
Honor for the Cross of Saint Louis. It was the Pentagramsub-
stituted for the Labarum, the reinstatement of the symbol of
Light, the Masonicresurrection of Az1orz—(/Idem‘) Hiram.
A once popular amulet had on one side theengravedCeles-
tial Mother of the Sohar, the Iris of Egypt, the Venn: Uranic
of thePlatonists, and theMary of theChristians, standingupon
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 9
theworld and setting one foot on thehead of theMagic Serpent
(theuzpraised serpent). She extended her two hands so thatthey
formed a triangle,whereof thehead of the woman is the apex;
her hands open and emittingrays, which made of thema double
triangle, symbol of the PERFECT man, when the rays are all
directed toward the earth, representing the final emancipation
of the intelligenceof honest labor.
On the reverse side was engraved the double Tau of the
Egyptian Hierophant, the Lingam in the double weir, or the
triple Phallus supported with the interlacing and a double in-
sertion of the Kabbalistic and Masonic M, representing in turn
the square between two columns, Jachin and Boaz, but orig-
inally beingthe figures (in Primitive Masonry) of a man and
woman standing upright; above placed on a level were two
hearts—loving and suffering.
10 NBDOURE “
Introduction
By therepublicationof Dr. ThomasJ. Betiero’s
12 NEDOURB
My acquaintancewithDr. Wood beganalmost immediately
upon my admittance as a student in theCollegeof Medicineand
Surgery.
At that period there was an intense, almost universal re-
vival of interest by the many, in Hypnosis, and to a lesser
number in the Arcane, Esoteric and Occult Science. Almost all
of those interested in the Occult were also more or less
interested in Hypnotism, especially so in the trance induceable
by Hypnotism. A great deal of this interest in the trance state
could be traced to Dr. P. B. Randolph's book RAVALETIE,
then widely read.
Dr. Wood was an activeProfessor of Surgery in theCollege
of Medicine and Surgery. Whiledeeply interested in theTeach-
ings of the Occult, he was less so in Hypnotismotherthanas a
Therapeutic agent in the relief of the ill, especially those af-
flictedwithsome form of mental ailmentnot readilyresponding
to theusual form of treatment. It was perhaps in thisfieldthatI
becamemore or less deeply associatedwithhim in the effort to
help thosewithobscure ailments. It was as a result of thisasso-
ciation thatI becamefamiliarwithall phasesof trance, natural
and associated, and withthe great, almost unbelievablefield it
opened up of what appeared almost miraculous cures, and also
the equally great harm that could follow in the wake of this
power ignorantlyor maliciouslyemployed.
Natural trance states were few and to all appearance were
self-protective, and probablysome form of what we now know
as brain-shock (self-induced). Induced trances either were by
means of self-hypnotismor by proficienthypnotists workingon
hypnotic subjects, who opened up all the horrors of hell itself
in those entranced, and brought before their vision all the
PRIBSTESS OF THE MAGI 13
memories of their past evil, vicious, misspent lives, often re-
sulting in what appeared to be, and was generallydiagnosed as
Insanity,thoughit was not actuallysuch.
As was natural for the time, and still occasionally occurs,
there were many notoriety seekers, mostly pure fakers, who
posed as trance subjects, professing to be able to not only read
their own past lives, but those of others as well. Many of those
who professed this abilityactuallyentered a type of trance state
to “r "
the lives of others, who were themselves extreme
negatives, mostly Neurotics-—a term then generally unknown
—while others suffered from some form of sex infraction so
frequentin women of thistype.
Wimessing, as we did, the results of trance states induced
by perfectly legitimate means——then considered as quackery
and not recognizedby physiciansand dentists of any schools as
legitimate—we induced the writer of NBDOURE to deal ex-
tensivelywiththis subject. It was known thatin the practiceof
Black Magic by degenerates and renegades of Occult Science,
theyalmost invariablyconcerned themselves withsuch women
as their subjects, becauseof the ease with which theycould be
influencedand throwninto the trance state.
However, even in the legitimatepracticeof Occult Science
and theArcane thereare instances wherein theNeophyte,either
by accidentor as a result of impatience,falls in thetrance state.
Since these have not eliminated or transmuted their evilor un-
regeneratedesires, theyare unpreparedto meet thevisions of the
horrors symbolizingtheseevilsof theirmisspent lives and unless
of strong Willtheywillsuffer greatlyas was so well illustrated
in ZANONI by the master writer on the subject, Lord Bulwer
Lytton. If, however, they, as Neophytes, have been patient,
14 NEDOURE
practiceobedienceand effort, they will eliminate the causative
evils, and the Temple,i.e., mind and body, will be cleansed of
theevils.
In NEDOURE, Dr. Betiero took great pains to explain the
results of becoming entranced by accident or without intent.’
If, when this happens, the evils within have been transmuted,
no evil or damage results.
In orderly legitimate, guided training of Neophytes all
instructions are followed and nothing added to, or subtracted
from them.SUCH TRANCE IS NEVER PERMITTED.Thedevelop-
ment follows a natural process, and is normal as a result of the
gradual awakening of the Spiritual principle hidden, imbedded
(under a bushel) in all men who are normal in nature. This
Principleis known as theDivine Spark,the Christos, or theun-
conscious Spiritual self; theDivine Spark becomingby gradual
stages a Light—the STAR OF THE MAGI—and brought into
outer manifestation by Arcane practices and then Rnflected to
WITHIN the self where the Great Center of the Light will be
developed and OPENED UP.
By means of this process, man become: the “Templeof the
Living God,” Biblicallyspeaking, i.e., the receptacleor abiding
placeof theLight which is received by man from God for this
especial purpose. As all preliminary training is for the express
purpose of eliminating all weaknesses, all evil habits, all dis-
ease from body and mind, therefinementand normal develop-
ment of thebody proceeds step by step withthatof theSpiritual
self. Illusions,delusions, shadows, phantoms, irrational reason-
2 This may happen if the Neophyte disobeys his instructions
to relax the body and keep the mind actively alert during his
practicesfor inner Spiritual Development.
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 15
ing and false conceptions are eliminated from the mind, while
thenervous system is normalizedso thatno form of Neurosis is
possible.
This was Betiero’s primary intent for the writing and pub-
lication of NEDOURE for the preparation of the Neophyte to
proceed on the Path. The secondary purpose was to expose
the machinations of the members of what has been known
throughout the ages as the Black Brotherhood—thedeer: of
evil. This is under Natural Law, i.e., that wherever there is
good there is the opposite, evil. It is also the operation of
Action and Rlsaction.A law stated by the Nazarene as: "As ye
sow, so shall ye reap." The destroyer is ultimately himself
destroyed and thereis no power in earth or heaven to save him.
Betiero’s third object was to offer practical, sane, safe instruc-
tions to those interested in the Arcane, Esoteric, and Occult so
that they might proceed in a normal, natural manner to
properly prepare themselves for the greatest benefit to be
derived from their eflorts.
In thenotes every effort is made to offer a new, present day
interpretation of the application of the teachings to meet the
present day guidance of Neophytes; replacingterms familiarto
students of fiftyyears ago, but no longer either practical,appli-
cable or desirable.
Dr. Wood becametheprime mover for therevivificationof
the Supreme Grand Temple. His medical education and long
experience in the care of the physically,mentally ill, and his
knowledge of the Occult from a scientific point of view, had
well prepared him for thisoffice.
Dr. Betiero was less interested in medicine and the treat-
ment of disease by material agents, but fullyprepared to do so
16 NEDOURE
by mental, Spiritualmeans. His interest in Hypnotismwas deep
and sincere; he was a mortal enemy of those who made use of
Hypnotism for other than legitimate purposes.
Dr. Betiero was a natural born teacher of the Occult and
Esoteric Science, and especially of the mental development of
the Will which plays so great a part in thetraining of a Magi.
Without Will, desire, the incentive to effort cannot function,
and man remains a weakling.
Mr. Whitehead, authorof the text THE MYSTIC TI-IESAU-
nus and Editor of Agrippa’sNATURALMAGIC greatlydiffered
from both Drs. Wood and Betiero. His part was to teach the
Science of Natural Magic, the operation of forces generally
considered as unknown, but the results of the application of
which were at times almost miraculous.
Mr. Bonker, the fourth memberof the group forming the
Conclave,was the financial mainstay for thepublicationof the
monthlymagazine: THE STAR or THE MAGI.
As for myself, I was given an important part, much of
which has been revealed in OCCULT Scnancn and THE
MASTERINITIATEAND THE MAID and completed in thepubli-
cation of this edition of NEDOURE, thethird of what has been
called the ARCANB Truo.
The PREAMBLE of the REVIVIFIED Order gave as part of
its purposes:
(1) To demonstrate by one’s life the proof that man in-
herited from the Divine Source certain abilitiesand possibilides
—Biblically—talent.r, which he must ultimately bring into
material manifestation before he will become an entirely free
agent.
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 17
(2)To demonstrate thatman may develophimself into the
TEMPLE or THE LIVING G01), and that GOD, IN HIS I.IGHT,
WILL DWELL TI-IEREIN.
(3) To develop a life leading toward perfection, bringing
about peace and happiness to the mind and comfort, strength
and health to physicalbody.
(4) To form a fraternalUnion, or close associationof those
of like nature and desire, for the perpetuation of the Ancient
Wisdom, the Higher Mysteries, and all thatresults therefrom.
(5) To promote the Biblical “Kingdom of heaven," i.e.,
ALL THINGS may be inherited by man if HE WILL OBEY NAT-
URAL AND DIVINE LAW, and by so doing BECOME an Initiate;
A SON or Gon.
The Order dates backto theremotest past. Its Origin is lost
in Antiquity. It attained its greatest heighthin Egypt beforethe
time of theNazarene. From thetime of the decadence of Egypt
untilthepresent it has continued activein variousforms.
The Supreme Imperial Templepossesses the ritual of the
past and in its Archives are the teachings and instructions
guarded during an unbroken period of time. Sometimes there
were but a few who kept theHolyLight burning, theselection
of its Neophyteshavingbeenmade most carefully.’
In Egypt the men of wisdom in charge of the institutions
of learningand Templesof Initiation, the "wise men" of their
time, were known as the Hierophantsor Initiate Masters. In
3 This is especially true -‘today, more so than for many cen-
turies past. Only those who have been enrolled in, for instance
the Rosy Cross or like Fraternities, and have demonstrated by
theirsincerity,earnestness, steadfastness, application and attain-
ment thattheyare worthy,have been, and are, acceptable.
18 NEDOURE
Persia and Assyria and later in other countries,theywere called
the Magi. It was the Magi, Wise Men of the East, who were
guided bytheStar of theMagi to thebirthplaceof theNazarene,
the new Law-Giver and demonstrator of the Divine Law.
These Holy Emissaries came from the threeknown parts of
the then known world, in homage of the gathered wisdom of
theworld to lay it at His feet and manifest theirwillingnessto
serve.
As mankind became retrograde, the precepts of the Magi
and other Initiates were ignored more and more. The mass
wandered further from the Light through which God mani-
fested Himself to those who were prepared. These Wise Men
beganto belookedupon withsuspicion.As man more and more
became engrossed in the self and in secular affairs, he turned
fartheraway from theSpiritual,untilfinallyhe bestowedalmost
all his thoughtupon thephysical,the temporal, which endures
at best but a few years, and little or none upon thatimperish-
able DIVINE SPARK hidden within himself which is the only
REALITY.
Times have not changed other than that there has been a
gradual retrogration in everything that concerns the Divine
Spark in man and which may be brought into Consciousness.
During the last seventy-fiveyears of the past century until the
end of the century, there was a cycle of great awakening, and
it was my fortune to have beenborn at theheight of thatperiod.
Becoming an Acolyte in the Rosy Cross in 1895, though but
a youth in my teens, my heart and Soul were dedicated to the
Great Work.
In rapid succession, without any volition on my part, I
became acquainted with men of the highest authorityin the
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 19
various Arcane, Esoteric Occult and Spiritual activities and, for
some unexplained reason, rook upon myself more and greater
responsibilitiesand obligations, all of which were to find their
finalconsummationafter fiftyyears of activitiesin almost every
part of theworld.
Followingclosely,almost in conjunctionone withtheother,
I becameacquaintedwithDr. Anderson and theMagi. My com-
mitment and obligationto Dr. Anderson were fulfilledwiththe
publicationof Occult Science.
This period of my connection with the Order of the Magi,
under Dr. Wood, was more of the nature of an advanced
Neophyte than an active official, which was to follow later.
Then began my real activity in the field of the Arcane and
Esoteric in officiatingas an instructor and guide to Neophytes
duringtheConvocationswhich beganin Chicagoand later were
transferred to theSee, BeverlyHall. My obligationand commit-
ment, the fulfillmentof promises, were completed by the prep-
aration of notes and explanations to the book THE MASTER
INITIATE AND THE MAID and its publication. That is self-
explanatory.
When preparations were made for organizing an Inter-
national Association of all authenticArcane, Esoteric, Occult
and Initiatory Orders and Fraternities, culminating in the
formation of the still active Royal Fraternity Association in
1909,Registered. The ORDER or THE MAGI becamea member
withtheunderstandingthatI should becomethefuture Supreme
Grand Master of the Order and republish NEDOURB with addi-
tional notes, within fifty years or so after the original publica-
tion, or to arrange for thisworkwithmy successor. This revised
edition was to harmonize the teachings with the need of the
20 NEDOURE
period. My last obligationwillbe fulfilledwiththepublication
of thepresent Work.
My life in the Great Work throughouthas been a circle of
three. This Circle, a Cycle, is completed. I shall continue to be
active in the Work for the rest of my days and, in Occult parl-
ance, shall expect, and have planned, to beginthe Work anew
on my return from the temporary journey around the Circle
throughthemiddleworld,a journeywhich all must take.
Fraternally,withGreetings to ALL,
R. SwinburneClymer
The SEE
“BeverlyHall"
Quakertown, Penna.
February 25, 1956
CHAPTERONE
The Preceptorand theMaharaja
Whileawaiting thehand of theGreat Transformer,which,
I am given to know, will soon overtake me, I am workingin
feverish haste to record the events of a strange life.
Why am I impelled to write of -things held sacred and
secret in this age I know not. Perchance this papyrus will en-
dure to "theAge ofLigl.wt,”"" thecomingof which has beenfore-
told by the prophet.
My life upon the whole has been a strange one. My child-
hood held mysteries as great as thoseI dailysought to compre-
hend.
My earliest remembrance found me within the walls of
the Ouri Monastery,situated upon the side of the great moun-
tain range thatoverlooks the valleyof Kashmir.
Here I had remained, studying the religion of our fathers,
and reading the sacred manuscripts. A few days after my six-
teenth birthday,in the company of Gobab, my preceptor, we
were bathingin the refreshing waters of the Jhelnm. As we
were about to leave the water, to return to the monastery, we
"'
Literallyhundreds of Neophytes on the Arcane Path who
are, in Occult jargon, seeking Our Lady of Light in the Inner-
most self or Center of Light, will find this statement deeply
interesting. It is a prophesy made more than fifty years ago of
the coming into a cycle of Light, or cycle where those sincerely
interested in things Spiritual will be doubly blessed by the
Divine Law, and the age of gross materialism and atheism will
be relegated to second place; the Children of Light (aide St.
John) beingamong thechosen.
22 NEDOURE
heard the loud blowingof conch shells, mingledwiththe voices
of elegantly dressed messengers, who loudly proclaimed:
“The Maharaja! The Maharaja! Child of Brahma, comes!”
My preceptor, who belongedto theOrder of YellowMonks,
had always treated me with marked courtesy and kindness, yet
as a wholesome precept, no doubt, he maintained, at all times,
a noticeable dignity and reserve.
However, I noted, strange to say, that when he heard the
announcement of the King's approach, his features relaxed
theirproud expression and assumed one of actual fright. Grasp-
ing me by thearm, witha grip thatwas almost painful, he said:
“Comequick; it is late.”
He then seemed to have lost his power of speech, but con-
tinued to make excited gestures, as if our very existence de-
pended upon haste. During this time we were standing in
water up to our arm-pits, comparativelyalone, although but a
little way from us, bothup and down the stream, could be seen
hundreds of bathers of bothsexes. Wherever thearmouncement
of the Maharaja’s coming fell upon their ears, the bathers at
once madepreparationsto leave thewater. Some of themsought
the river bank, others entered the bathhouses, of which hun-
dreds could be seen along the river bank. This was according
to a custom long observed, as I afterward learned.When royalty
desired to bathe,thepeoplewere expected to retire.
The Maharaja,who at this time enjoyed his annual hunting
trip, came rapidly forward in his gorgeous palanquin, sur-
roundedby his tall, dignifiedbody guard. Three servants walked
on either side of the palanquin holding rich shades aloft to
shield the royal occupant from the fiery rays of the afternoon
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 23
sun. All of thisI observed in a hastyglance,as Gobab, who had
now recovered his tongue, fairly yelled:
"Run; Hari,run!”
I rushed out toward the bank with all the agilityof boy-
hood, leavingbehindmy companion who, beingpast theprime
of life, had attained a corpulency which impeded his efforts at
flight.
Upon reaching the shore I turned, laughingly,to mock
him, but the look of terror upon his face at once dispelled all
thoughtsof mirth. Wonderingwhat could have given him such
an unusual shock, I turned around in a confused and absent-
minded manner to seek our robes, which seemed to have van-
ished, as theywere nowhere to be found.
An instant later Gobab, coming out of the water from
behind,seized my hand, and with thesame look of alarm, said:
"Come; we must not meet theKing!"
He then made an attempt to drag me forward, which was,
however, unnecessary, as without awaiting further explanation,
I leaped forward, and togetherwe both bounded, in a state of
nudity,toward the trees which covered the hillside.
Seeing our ludicrous flight up the hillside the Maharaja,
in a spirit of amusement, no doubt, gave orders thatwe were to
be brought before him. As we rushed on and on, heedless of
all surroundings, it soon became apparent that we were being
pursued; between our heavy and tired breaths rapid footsteps
were heard approaching. About this time my corpulent com-
panion, who was well nigh exhausted,stumbled and fell, pull-
ing me over withhim as he rolled upon the ground. I regained
my feet in an instant, and, not being aware of the real cause
24 NEDOURB
for flight, sought to raise my preceptor. While assisting him
to his feet I heard thestern command:
"Halt; in the name of theMaharajawe command."
A few seconds later we were surrounded by half a dozen
tall, handsome men, dressed in long, heavy gowns, with wide,
flowing sleeves, and wearing upon their heads dazzling white
turbans.
Gobab, who had regained his presence of mind, explained
to them,whilewiping the mud from his face and eyes, thatwe
were from the Ouri Monastery which could be seen far up the
mountain side.
Twoof the Maharaja’s servants appeared at thistime, bear-
ing our clothing,which we in our excitement had been seeking
in the wrong place, as they were found a short distance up
stream, where we had disrobed. It required but a moment to
don them,when, as I thought,our sacredcallingwould become
apparent, and we would be allowed to proceed on our way.
But the Maharaja, who was watching us from his palanquin,
a few hundred cubits away, sent a messenger to say:
“His Majesty wishes to give alms to the two monks and
desires their blessing.”
A hasty glanceat Gobab’s face, which, no doubt, appeared
perfectly placidto others, showed to me, quite plainly,that he
would have preferredto forego the alms thanmeet thishaughty
ruler from Kashmir. Yet,as a monarch's wish, once expressed,
immediately becomes a command, we had no recourse other
than to obey.
Withslow and measuredstep our guards, for such theynow
were, conducted us back toward the river bank, where the
Maharaja awaited our coming. As we neared his resting place,
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 25
all our party made low bows or salaams at regular intervals
until within a short distance, when, following the example of
our guides or captors, we all fell upon our faces. We remained
thus in silence until we heard the deep, sonorous voice of the
King, which seemed out of all proportion to his size, bidding
us arise. When we arose, I, beingat that time unaware of the
customs and etiquette in the presence of royalty,dared to look
upon "the Hon of the Ptmjab.”
He had left the royal palanquin, with its hand-worked
cushions, tapestry and curtains, some of the designs of which
must have required theefforts of a lifetime.
As he stood forth he appeared every inch a monarch, al-
thoughinsignificantin stature. He was truly a handsome man,
but smaller than the membersof his suite. His expression was
not unkind, yet when he smiled,displaying two even rows of
beautifulwhite teeth, which contrasted with his dark brown
skin and regular features, therewas thatin it which savored of
contempt and made one feel illat ease, whichwas not dispersed
by his glitteringdark eyes which seemed to possess the power
of penetratingone and laying bare their innermost secrets. His
attire was simpleyet rich, consistingof a short blue gown, girded
at the waist by a beautifulbelt of snakeskin,inlaid with costly
gems. Attached to it, at his side, could be seen a small sword,
whose jewelledhandle his left hand sought absently from time
to time, leaving his right arm, which was unadorned save a
braceletof gold, free to make those gestures which swayed his
attendants as the gentle thoughirresistable winds which sweep
over tall fields of waving grass. Around his neck was sus-
pended a unique chain of gold from which hung a large dia-
mond, that danced and sparkled on its sky blue background
26 NEDOURE
like a huge ball of fire, as with every movement it seemed to
concentrate and disperse the vivid rays of the afternoon sun.
I did little more than glanceat his face,which showed thathe
was a man past the prime of life, when my gaze became
strongly attracted to the diamond attached to his golden neck
chain. The sparkling jewel held me spellbound. Although I
felt certain thathis penetratingeyes were upon me, I was pow-
erless to look either above or below. As I stood gazing abstract-
edly at thisflashinggem, it appeared to grow larger and larger
and, if possible, more brilliant.It finallyassumed the appear-
ance of a huge eye thatrapidlygrew in proportions untilI could
see my own reflection therein.‘ I beheld myself as if looking
1A process of self-involvement or self-Hypnotization. A
very simple example may be cited; one thatfrequentlyhappens
to almost every motorist. When driving on a very long stretch
of straight highway and watching the road without blinking,
as most motorists do, there appears to form a second road
and this image of a road gradually becomes more real than
the real road. Often motorists follow this reflected road and
serious accidents occur.
This could be avoided by merely watching the road, not
glaring at it, or by blinking.The better way is to look at the
road as one would at a beautiful flower, and to blink
occasionally.
Professional hypnotists use a bright object and have their
subject gaze at it without blinking. This gazing gradually
becomes a glare and Hypnosis follows.
In order to avoid this self-involvement one should not
glare at an object for any length of time. If it is necessary,
as it is in many phases of development, to gaze at a given
object, for a given time, the eyes should be centered, but it
should be as one looks at any beautiful object, and not per-
mit the eyes to becomefixed.
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 27
into a mirror. Strange to note, however, I appeared, by reflec-
tion, to be dressed in the identical costume of the Maharaja.
During this state of fascination,my surroundings appeared
dim and changeableas if in a dream. I was conscious of moving
figures and heard thehum of voices as if from afar. How long
I remained thus,or what occurred during my strange trance,’ I
3The classical Occult example of such an experience is
thatof Glyndondescribed in Lord Lytton’s great Occult Novel,
Zanoni. Glyndonwas not satisfied to proceed with his develop-
ment in a slow and normal manner and in obedience to his
Master's instructions, but in direct Disobedience attempted to
open the Door of the Temple,themysterious within, before he
had cleansed thecarnal self.
The personal self was still uppermost and he saw himself
as he really had been and still was, rather than the Spiritual
self which would ultimately have enveloped and guided him
as a result of beingproperly prepared by following the dictates
of his Master teacher.
In the training of a Neophyte to become an Occultist or
Magi, the line of demarcation between self-hypnotization and
self-illuminationis very thin; as finely drawn in fact, as is the
line between the two greatest forces in the life of man: love
and hate. One does not exist without the other; the one being
the positive and the other the negative.
It is for this reason that in the ancient Initiation, Neo-
phytes were required to devote many years to study and self-
purification before they were given Arcane practices, so that
when theDoors of theinner self ultimatelyopened, therewould
be none of the ugly carnal se1f—theTe1ror—(meaningterrified
at the evils then seen) to confront them.
This is also the symbolic story of the Nazarene born in a
stable, illustrating that when the stable, the carnal self is
cleansed, then the Divine self, the Christos, will come to birth.
The older story is thatof the aegean stables.
28 NEDOURE
may never know, as when I returned to consciousness I was
lying on my cot in the little plainly furnished room of the
monastery. Old Gobab was at my side. Save the pained and
troubled look which still clouded his features no explanation
In the properly prepared Neophyte, he who has faithfully
passed through the preliminary training—the temple, i.e., the
inner self—is filledwithLight.
Just as there is twilightbetween day and night, so is there
a twilight—an in-between—in life. The real Neophyte accepts
this and fights through this stage without impatience—by a
prevision of the end results. The weakling defaults and fails
just as he does in all the affairs of life, or attempts to force
results as did Glyndon, and also fails.
The term “Occultism” has, unfortunately,been made to in-
clude and embrace almost every possible manner of practice
which has in view delving into the unknown, the mysterious
and the Spiritual. In this is included Crystal gazing and the
Magic Mirror, supposedly innocent pasttimes. All legitimate
Arcane and Esoteric, including the Magian Societies and all
responsible teachers have warned, time and again, against
such practices except under the direct supervision of a Master
teacher. Their warningshave generallyfallen on barren ground.
“Pooh, wherein can there be danger?” has been the question.
In the very beginning of this text, we have an example.
The crystal, as also the Magic Mirror, have the same possible
effect as the diamond in this instance. If the gaze becomes
“fixed”, as is most frequently the case, it will throw the mental-
physical self into an unconscious state generally known as a
trance.
What is erroneously known as the psychic, but is in fact
the subconscious self with all its immensity of the records of
evils of the past, is thus awakened without preparation or pro-
tection. This may result in insanity, mostly temporal, or a per-
manent Neurosis.
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 29
was given me. In fact,furtherthan a few solicitous queries con-
cerning my condition, he apparently did not desire to discuss
the episode.
My life had again resumed its dreary course, yet I was no
longer contented with the mechanical duties and routine of
study pursued at the monastery. For hours Gobab, the Yellow
Monk, would read to me from thePouranas; which was always
followed by an equal amount of time devoted to the Oupo-
pouranas or commentaries, all of which now seemed to me a
waste of time.
What change had come over me? Had I suddenly become
stupid? Or was my reason impaired? Such queries flitted almost
constantly throughmy mind. From a youthwho had been con-
sidered more than ordinarily bright, I was changed into a
gloomy,day-dreamingman.
If my old preceptor and companion noticed the change, he
evidentlydid not desire to speak of it. He now left me abruptly
after readingthedailylessons withthecommentaries.Whereas,
previously,our greatest mutual pleasurefollowed theprescribed
lesson, as nothinggave me greater pleasure than his personal
narratives concerning the great Cakya-Mouni and his twenty
incarnations; to which I listened withrapt attention.
All was now changed. When the manuscripts were laid
aside he would at once bidme farewell with a strange look of
indecision, doubt, fear and pity in his kindly eyes, and more
than once, as I passed the open door of his plainly furnished
cell, where beside his slowly revolving prayer-wheel he sat
wrapped in theusual meditations,I fanciedhe was about to call
me to him for some explanation,the nature of which I could
not even guess.
30 NEDOURE
We no longer took our accustomedstrolls togetherthrough
the lovely vale of Kashmir; nor did we any more bathein the
refreshing waters of the Jhelum.
Time passed drearily within those gray walls! The quiet
days passed into the still more silent nights, and the nights, in
their turn again, gave place to uneventful days. In my dreary,
trance-like state it made but little difference whether the sun
reigned in the heavens or whether the moon poured upon us
her reflected light. The present was fast becominga blank to
me, as thepast had ever been. I knew nothingof my past and,
as a matter of course, imagined it could not have been very
eventful. From my earliest childhoodI remembered no home
otherthan the monastery, and had known no other friend than
Gobab, who had been as a father. What he knew concerning
my origin could onlybesurmised, as he said nothingconcerning
my past, but he often told me I would one day becomea monk. «
Whether of the Red or Yellow class would depend upon my
inclination and temperament. The former are allowed to take
wives, while the latter must take the vows of celibacy.
But one thingto me was certain. I knew my familymust
have been a good one, for I was permitted to wear upon my
brow the painted emblem which proclaimedme a Brahmin of
the highest caste. By the luxuries that were granted me, and
from a careless remark of Gobab, I felt sure that a sum of
money came at regular intervals from some unknown source.
FurtherthanthatI knew not, nor cared.
One year had passed since meeting the Maharaja on the
banks of the Jhelum. It was the exact anniversary of the un-
certain and, to me, unsatisfactoryevent. For some strange and
unknownreason it had beenthe turningpointin my life. In my
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 31
listless, dreamy condition, the diamond worn by the Monarch
danced almost constantlybeforemy eyes and, on account of this
hallucination,it was impossible for me to becomeinterested in
anythingelse.
There were also strange sounds ringing in my ears, and
whether offering the usual chants to Brahma, or singing the
sacred chants to Ohm, diabolicalshouts of laughterwould shock
my nervous organism. When assisting at the ceremonial rites,
behindthe High Priest I would often see a most horrible grin-
ning face, whose distorted visage always bore a strikingresem-
blance to theMaharajaof Kashmir. At times thegreat sparkling
diamond,thathad so strangelyfascinatedme, dangledupon the
breast of the apparition.At other times this Phantom” appeared
withone eye only,thesocket of the other beingfilledwith the
glitteringgem.
I often wondered if these strange sights and sounds were
detected by eyes and ears other than my own, but I dared not
ask.
So time had slowlymoved on—days, weeks and months-
3 In truth and fact, what Hari did see was actually the
revelation of his real self; the Ego of all that he had ever been,
and all of which was and is recorded on, or in every man's
subconscious self. The authoruses the term “Phantom.” There
is no difference betweenthe“Phantom” and the “Terror.” They
are the un-regenerate self; the self as it really is. In true Train-
ing for the Initiation, through a period of time and sincere
effort under a competent teacher, this inner, unRegenerate self
is graduallychanged or transmuted into theHigher or Spiritual
self in order to be fullyprepared when the“Door” opens and the
Ineffable Light begins to manifest itself. This must always be
brought about in the conscious state, while the mental faculties
are alert, wide awake.
32 NEDOURE
and thesetting of the sun on this particular day would exactly
complete the year, which had wrought so great a change in my
life.
Silencereignedover theold monastery. It was near thehour
of midnight. The monks had long since retired to their cells.
The historic gray walls of the old buildingwere now sur-
rounded by a mantle of darkness, now and then penetrated by
the pale rays of the moon, that peered out ever and anon
throughmountains of sombre clouds.
CHAPTERTWO
TheOurs’ Monastery
The Ouri Monastery had been constructed several hundred
years previous to the time of which we write.
In harmonywith theprevailingcustom its site was selected
high upon themountain side, almost upon the extreme summit,
so as to place both the Neophytes and Initiates in a region of
purest atmospheric conditions, far above the disturbed vibra-
tions continuallyemanatingfrom humanity.
The mountain peak upon which it was thus located formed
a part of the range thatinclosed the beautifuland picturesque
valleyof Kashmir.
That side of the mountain which sloped toward the valley
was thicklycovered with trees and foliage; the other side was,
however,totallybarren of any vegetation.A steep, rugged road,
along which here and there could be seen a vehicle or pedes-
trian, took its course in zig-zag fashion down the steep incline,
toward thevillageof Horis, which was plainlyvisible and about
a dozen milesdistant.
Horis was a small hamlet, containing about four hundred
inhabitants, composed principally of guides and inn-keepers,
who waited in comparativeidleness thegreater part of the year
thattheymight reap a golden harvest in thepilgrimseason.
As the road was part of thegreat highwaywhich led to the
shrine at Mecca, many of thesepious travelers sought shelter at
the monastery, when accommodations could no longer be had
in the town of Horis. The doors of thegloomy building,which
sometimes seemed a prison to me, were always opened to any
weary pilgrimor belated traveler who might apply.
34 NEDOURE
As stated in the previous chapter, it was now past the hour
of midnight, and all were asleep. Did I say all? All, perhaps,
but one. I had prepared to retire more than once, but as many
times refrained. I felt restless, apprehensive and, I might say,
fearful; but fearful of what? That question I was powerless to
answer.
I took from a shelf, suspended against thewall, one volume
after another. First, I tried to decipher some problems from the
Chastras. Failingin this, I endeavored to become interested in
the Pouranas, which treat of law, theology,medicine, of the
creation anddestruction of theworld, etc., but all to no purpose.
When, in disgust, I had replacedthe last of them,an unearthly,
mockinglaughof derision rang in my ears. Such phenomenahad
long since ceased to surprise me, and upon this night I actually
felt defiant.
In a decidedly unpleasant state of mind I turned from the
book shelf and started to again resume my seat at the little
wooden table which stood in the center of my room, when, to
my surprise, I plainly saw what appeared to be my own self
seated in thechair thatI was about to occupy. At any othertime
such an apparition would, undoubtedly,have startled me; but
that shrieking laugh, which even now echoed in my ears, had
awakenedsuch a Spirit of resistance in my nature as would have
given me strengthto defy even Siva, the great destroyer, him-
self. But the mild expression upon the visitor's face,which was
turned full toward me, indicated most plainly that he was not
a destroyer; on the contrary I felt impressed thathe was a mes-
senger of good tidings.
Though sufficiently familiar with my own appearance to
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 35
recognize in this strange beinga double,‘ yet I also felt certain
thatmy facial aspect had never shown such an illuminationas
I saw in theone beforeme.
Thick,massive dark curls fell about his well shaped shoul-
ders and formed an appropriatesetting for thethoughtfulyoung
face, with a forehead of such size as to become the noticeable
feature. The large, expressive dark-brown eyes, small mouth
and full lips, withthedark brown complexionof the Brahmin,
presented a perhaps flatteringlikeness of myself. It may again
beadded thattheexalted expression of thefacewas not mine-—
from it beamed a blissful, contented and happy light, rarely
seen upon this earth.
As I gazed wonderinglyinto thoselarge, liquid eyes, a smile
1This “Double” is the Spiritual duplicate of the material
self and under certain conditions manifests separately from the
material self. In the advanced degree of Spiritual development
this dual existence is not at all difficult. The “double” is always
under perfect control, the evils of the self having been trans-
muted into the Ineffable Light, the Illuminationof the Soul,
or the Light by which, or through which, God has always ap-
peared to mankind. In the unrefined or unregenerated state,
this separation is without control and is always dangerous to
the mind and nervous system of the person.
This “Double,” in the advanced stages of development,
after the Soul has attained Consciousness, is also called the
“Shadow,” it being the generally invisible Spiritual self. The
True Initiate may set this “Shadow” up as a Guardian over
some great, important Spiritual work, for the welfare of man-
kind as he leaves the Earth plane. This “Shadow” or “Double”
will then guard such interests until the individual reincamates
to again take up his Work. Woe unto those who accept such
responsibilitiesand then betray their trust. Biblicallyspeaking,
“It were better they had never been born.”
36 NEDOURE
lit up the features of this being,beyondthe power of words to
portray. At thesame timehe held out his hand assuringlyto me.
Seizing it, I felt a powerful magnetic current flowing up my
arm, and from thenceit pervaded my whole system, as it flowed
up one side of my spinal column to the brain. The most de-
lightful thrillI had ever known permeated my whole frame.
I felt revivified,exhilarated;in short, I was perfectly happy.
WhileI was lost in thisstate of bliss he beganthebeautiful
chant of theUpanishad, in a low, musical voice, which held me
spellbound. The words, as I rememberthem, are:
"Ohm! To Brahm thatIs! All hail!
Ohm! May Brahman of the Sacred Teachings,All in
All, perfect my members-—
Speech, Life, Sight, Hearing,Strength,
As well as all my powers.
May I not becut off from Brahman; Brahman not cut
off from me;
May therebeno cutting; for me no cutting off.
Let all thevirtues in the Sacred Lore repose in me,
Who find my sole delight in thatSelf;
May theyin me repose.
Om! Peace, peace. Harih Om!”
As this bright beingsang an ecstasy took possession of me,
so that when the last of the chant was reached my voice had
unconsciouslyblended withhis own. When thelast sounds had
died away he arose and motioned me to the seat which was, by
theway, theonlystool in theroom. I started to remonstrate, but
he placed his finger to his lips to enjoin silence and again mo-
tioned me to the seat, which I reluctantly accepted. He then
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 37
folded his arms upon his chest and regarded me with a look of
ineffable kindness and love.
He remained thus for a few seconds, but in my state of sus-
pense I thoughtit much longer. Finally,in the same low, musi-
cal voice, he said:
"Brother, as you possess not the knowledge which would
have enabled you to come to me, I have now come to you.”
I essayed to speak and ask him who he was and why he had
favored me withsuch a visit. Though my lips moved no words
came forth; however, he must have read my thoughts, as he
answered:
"I 4122 your /Jigberself, and have come to tell you thatwhich
you should know. You must choose, this night, whether you
will be a king,ruler of men, or a priest, servant of Brahma.”
"I do not know if I entirely comprehend your meaning," I
ventured, hesitatingly. “To begin with, I do not understand
exactlywhat is meant by my ‘higher se .
"Ah,” said he, "thatis as I supposed. Man is and ever will
be in his infancy concerning things of most import. It is for
that reason the great Self incarnates from time to time during
theages of the earth. It is through thegreat Buddhas or reach-
ers thatthewise Creator propagates truth throughouttheworld.
“Man is composed of soul, spirit and matter. Everything,
animate and inanimate, has a Spirit, but man alone, of all the
corporeal creatures, has a Soul.” What you now see before you,
3 Of all of God's creations on earth, man alone has a mind
to think and reason. Because of this possession, he is known
as a four-square being: Body, mind, spirit (the life principle)
and, as a combination or culmination of these three, a Soul
38 NEDOURE
my brother,is your Soul,” clothedin theshell of your mundane
body. Since the time you beheld the sparklinggem upon the
breast of the Maharaja you have existed apart from your own
Soul. You were at thattime entranced, or, in other words, be-
came so negative that the adhesive power of your constitution
was overcome by thelaw of spirit attraction,which is ever strug-
glingbetween theWorld of Causes and the World of Effects.”
"Kind sir,” I said, “may I again expose my ignorance by
admitting I do not know what you mean by the ‘World of
Causes and the World of Effects’.”
"The World of Effects,” he replied, looking at me with a
kindnessakin to pity,
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 39
feminine,thepositive and negative, organic and inorganic. The
difierencebetweenthelatter is not nearlyso complicatedas many
suppose, consisting only of what is called vitality; which is, in
reality, simply the power to retain heat, saturated with light,
indefinitely.The World of Effects is also justlycalled the great
illusion. As no material thing is lasting, it cannot, therefore,
be real. Change is the universal cry of earth; nothingever re-
main: thesame for one minute.
"You would now ask concerningthegreat World of Causes,
all the truths of which you are not at present prepared to re-
ceive. But I may say thatin the World of Causes there is also
an endless chain of transformationsas in the World of Effects.
Castes are also observed in the Spiritual sphere, of which there
are seven grand divisions. Here let me impress upon you the
importance of the number seven, as success will in a measure
depend upon your familiaritywith the properties of this sacred
number,in the studies you willassume later. Know, also, that
thereis a unityprinciplewhich operates in all spheres.”
“Pardon me, one moment,” said I, at thispoint.
"Speak without fear, brother,” said he, “for he who asks
questions and he who answers them are one.”
"You have said thatseven is the number of power; at the
same time you tell me thatthe Unity principle operates in all
spheres.”
“True,” he replied, in the soft, melodious voice, which gave
me confidence and again restored my equilibrium. “It is true
that man has seven principles. The earth has seven ages; the
solar universe contains seven planets, there are seven great
colors, etc. The number seven consists of two trinities with the
unit for a pivot or equalizingprinciple.
40 NEDOURE
"As my visit to you thiseveningis for your enlightenment,I
will begin by instructing you in esoteric addition, so that you
may better comprehend the qualities of the number seven.
When we begin at the unit—l, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7—and add to-
gether thefigures, we have twenty-eightas the sum. If we con-
tinue, and add togetherthe2 and 8, we have 10-—the unit in a
difierent octave; dropping the cypher, we have 1, and thus the
added powers of seven give unity. The process of reducing any
given figure thus is called esoteric addition, which you will do
well to remember,as from the ultimate atom to the Central
Sun of the universe nothingis the result of chance. Everything
vibrates according to the exact law of numbers.
"But, my brother,as I may not converse withyou too long,
perhaps it were better if we discuss those thingsupon which our
future depends.”
He pausedfor a moment and cast his gaze upward. His lips
moved as if uttering a prayer or conversing withsome invisible
being. He then continued:
"Fifteen years ago grief and lamentation filledthe vale of
Kashmir. Bothold and young were ruthlesslystricken down by
thatgreat invisiblemonster, the oriental plague, which is even
now followingits cruel vocation in theland of Cathay.Among
thefirst to fall was RandjidSing,followed by his beautifulwife.
Their bright, orphan child was left in the care of the deceased
King's only brother,Pundit Sing. The surviving brother faith-
fully promised to love and care for the child as his own. With
sacred vows of fidelity and protestations of love he also agreed
to hold thethronefor him in trust until he should arrive at the
proper age to rule.
"Pundit, whose grief seemed deep and sincere, retired
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 41
withinthebeautifulpalaceat Kashmir thathe might exclusively
devote himself to the memorial services for his departed kins-
man. For weeks he denied himself to all visitors, and, as the
plague was still ravaging the land, the royal palacewas placed
in a state of strictest quarantine. No one was allowed to enter
or depart, except messengers on themost important business.
"Althoughthe inhabitants of the valley yet believehim to
be the soul of honor, there are those nearer to him who have
become cognizantof his crafty and cruel nature, which has led
to the darkest crimes that man can conceive. And to-night, as
the Maharaja sits upon the throne,he is to all intents a mur-
derer and perjurer; a slayer of theinfant kinsmanhe had sworn
to protect.
‘When PunditSing, theregent, conceived thedark,tragical
scheme to remove from his paththe innocent child who alone
stood between himself and the throne,he took to his side and
admitted to his confidence one person only—the old royal
physicianwho had assisted at theparturition of both the victim
and destroyer. When informed of the Maharaja’s or regent’s
intention he was sorelyshocked and horrified, as the brutal and
cold-blooded purpose could not be obscured by soft words and
elegant phrases.
"Yetthe old physiciandid not betrayhis wounded feelings
by eitherword or expression. Witha grave brow, his onlyreply
was, ‘Thy will, 0 great Maharaja, is the will of Brahma; so it
shall ever please thy humble servant to do thy bidding most
faithfully.’Sayingwhich,he beggedleaveto retire to his private
apartments.
“As he entered his gorgeously appointed rooms, furnished
withall the elegance thatwealthand a refined mind could sug-
42 NEDOURE
gest, he paused a moment in deep meditation. A wave of
anguish swept over his features and a mist gatheredin his eyes.
Then a halo of light seemed to play,for an instant, around his
venerable brow; the air moved, as though disturbed by an
invisible presence, and shook an embroidered hanging at the
furtherend of the apartment. He smiled,nodded his head, and,
approachingthe still swaying silk,he drew it aside. Now was
disclosed a beingof frightful mien, who, with upraised sword
of glisteningsteel, seemed to start half throughthegildedwall,
ready to sn-ike any rash beingwho should unveil him.
“Drawingthe hanging to behindhim, thevenerable physi-
cian reached his left hand upwards and grasped the fist closed
around the hilt of steel; then,with his right hand, he pressed
upon a littlesash ornament over theleft breast of themenacing
figure.
"The image here moved noiselessy backward and aside,
its body straightened, and its sword came to a salute. ‘Ah! my
sentinel,’ murmured the royal physician, ‘how well you have
guarded my secret placeall these years; would thatI could be
as calm and unfeeling as you when I am as terrible.’ Releasing
his hold on the figure, it again assumed its menacingattitude
and moved swiftlyaround to its former place.
“Stepping from a niche into which he had retreated on re-
leasing the guarding image, a flightof narrow stairs presented
themselves,down which he passed. Opening a massive door, by
means of a secret spring, he entered his secret laboratory. This
hidden retreat appeared to be cut out of the living rock on
which the palace of Kashmir had been built. Absolute quiet
here reigned supreme. Its ample dimensions were lit up by a
swinging globe,whose oil of gold gave forth a ‘perpetual radi-
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 43
ance, the glory of which disclosed such a multitude of those
wonderful treasures of the secret sciences as would have de-
lighted theheart of the most exactingalchemist.
“V(7alkingslowly over to a row of shelves, he selected a
small, black ebony box. This he carefully carried to a stool,
a small key was brought forth from the seclusion of his robe
with which he soon opened it. Within could be seen half a
dozen small and peculiarly carved horns. Scrutinizing them
closely, he found the one he sought and lifted it from its
resting place.
“As he did so the suspended light of the secret laboratory
grew dim. The flood of sunlike light that filled the spacious
apartment grew to a sicklyred. A cloud of shadow grew upon
the face of a large mirror hung upon the further wall. The
shadow assumed the form of two figures, one bending over
the other. The one above was that of the Maharaja, the other
was bi:own.
“
‘The omen,’ he muttered. ‘I must initiate my successor.’
"Again the golden globeshone with sunlike radiance. He
quickly relocked the ebony box, replaced it, hid the key and
fantastichorn in the deep folds of his robe, and hastened away.
"A few days later it was whispered around that the infant
heir to the throne had been seized with the plague. The child
was isolated in the same old wing of the palace that had wit-
nessed thepassingof his parents. No one was permitted to visit
him save the old trusted physician, Pondichery, and a number
of nurses and attendants. Finally,the sad news was proclaimed
thatyoung Keshavah was no more.
"So dreadful had been the ravages of theplague, however,
that the populace gave but little attention to the event, which
44 NEDOURE
under less distressing circumstances would have called forth
widespreadgrief and sympathy.The perfidious regent appeared
almost overcome by his assumed grief,and after themost osten-
tatious funeral ceremonies had been held over the young heir,
Pundit Sing was proclaimed Maharaja over all Kashmir, and
the royal child was soon forgotten.
CHAPTERTHREE
Keshavah
"The night that followed the funeral services of little
Keshavah was dark and dismal,and but few lights shone in the
stricken city of Kashmir. As midnight approached these began
to vanish, one by one, until it looked almost as gloomyas a city
of thedead.
"Upon the winding road thatled up to the royal sepulchre
on the lonely mountain side the old physician, Pondichery,
might have been seen slowlyascending,bearingupon his shoul-
ders a small coffin which contained the body of a child.
"The solitary guard who walked to and fro in front of the
sepulchre of the royal family,now and then cast an impatient
glancedown the tortuous road. Finallytheold man reached the
city of the dead, where a few words passed betweenhimself and
the guard. An exchange of the small bodies of two boys was
then quickly and carefully made, and, after the bestowal of
a final word of caution, to which the guard nodded his head,
and a handful of gold, thatwas a little eagerly received, Pondi-
chery left thegloomyabode of thedead, bearingupon his shoul-
ders thesame small coffin. But it now contained life instead of
death. When he reached thewide, dusty road, at the foot of the
mountain, he found Gobab awaitinghim, witha cabriolet.
"The narrow box, with its precious contents, was placed
across their knees and, a few seconds later, theywere speeding
away to the Ouri Monastery.”
"What! To thismonastery!” I exclaimed,as I perceived the
overwhelming significance of his words.
"Yes,to thisplace; and as you have already comprehended
46 NEDOURE
the truth, I will confirm your belief that the coffin contained
theinfantMaharaja——your.relf.
“On the way here, Pondichery and his companion ex-
changed but a few words, Gobab contenting himself with
asking:
"
‘How did you manage the guard?’
“
‘His auric color’ caused the mystic pentacle to vibrate,’
Pondicheryreplied,‘thereforea few goldpieceswas all I needed
to use. Have no fear for his silence,for he would not live a day
if the regent had a suspicion, even, of the truth’.”
“What is the mystic pentacle," I asked, “and how did
Pondicheryuse it?”
"The mystic pentacle,”he replied, “is one of the four great
emblems of the most secret book of divine wisdom among the
Magi,or wise men of Egypt. The other threesymbols are a cup,
the Magi’s wand, and a sword. The use of these emblems—in
1
Every thought that man can think;every desire of which
man can become conscious, every feeling of which man is sub-
ject, produces or creates a vibration distinct from all others.
These vibrations,as do all vibrations, produce or create a color,
known in the Occult as an aura. The Initiate, Master Teacher,
or Magi, can read these colors as easilyas he can the alphabet.
The Neophyte under training frequently sees these colors
in the manifested Light but is instructed in a positive manner
to ignore them and pay attention only to the manifest Light.
This is because he is in the process of transition, as are his
colors and within the hour the colors may change.
It is only after a certain degree of development has been
attained that the colors have any meaning or value to him;
before that time they act as guide posts by which the Teacher-
Guide helps his Neophyte along the Path.
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 47
determining the starry spaces, in measuring the interstellar
depthsand distances, in navigatingthedeep to unknownshores,
in evoking and commanding the elementals of earth, air, fire
and water, and in discovering the most secret things of the
triune worlds of Divinity,Man and Nature—is the reward of
the Magi initiate. You have but to choose to obtain this sacred
wisdom.”
"But how was the regent deceived as to the infant Maha-
raja’s death?”I here asked.
"Under pretense of carrying out the murderous design of
the scheming regent, Pondichery administered to the child one
of his secret potions. This patent draught induced a state so
nearly resembling death that the heartless usurper was easily
deceived, and even the old physicianfeared he might have ad-
ministered a drop too much.
“After making arrangements with his old friend Gobab
to receive and care for the young Maharaja, be substituted the
body of a poor child,thathad passed over that day, and which
he had secretly secured for the purpose.
“Arriving at the monastery, Pondichery, in the seclusion
of Gobab’s private apartment, quickly restored the child to
normal life. This accomplished,his face lost its look of haggard
anxiety. His face radiated with satisfaction, and, kneeling by
theside of the infant, he gave thanksto Om thathe had been
enabled to protect and preserve his ‘sacred trust.’
"A short time afterward the great, good and learned Pon-
dichery was secretly executed, or murdered rather, by order of
the usurper, who said to himself that ‘dead men tell no tales.’
He was struck down while making obeisance to the regent—
who had summoned him to a retired room of the royal palace
48 NEDOURE
for the purpose-—and fell at his feet a corpse from one swift
and treacherous blow from behind. Thus was the dread omen
of the secret laboratory fulfilled.
"The concealed assassin did not escape. As the regent
looked down at the lifeless body of his victim, a fearful flash
of blue light pervaded the apartment. The swordsman fell
dead beneathits stroke. With a cry of mortal fear the regent
fainted and fell across Pondichery’s bleeding body and the
sword of the executioner. Again the blue lightning flashed,
and indelibly imprinted on the flesh of the regent a vivid
pictureof the sword and the wound it had made. The sight of
this, which be carefully conceals, has ever filled the regent’s
heart with fear, and he would gladly give his throne to be
rid of it.
"Before his tragic end, Pondichery, with his usual fore-
thought, had placed a suflicient sum of money in the care of
Gobab for the education and proper maintenance of the royal
child.
“He charged the faithful monk not to impart to the boy,
for some years, any information concerning his royal birth;
and, as a necessary precaution,you were renamed Hari in place
of Keshavah.”
He paused a moment and then continued:
“Now you know all. You are therightful ruler of Kashmir.
Proofs are now in the possession of Gobab and others, and
witnesses are also at hand, to place you upon the throne. This
will, of course, give you earthlypower. Yet, as I said before,
you are to choose this night whether you will become a ruler
of men or a servant of God. To-morrow the Lama will arrive
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 49
and you have already been decided upon as the chela selected
for initiation in theEgyptian mysteries.”
After giving out this unusual information, which, strange
to say, neither startled not surprised me, my visitor stood silent
and regarded me with a look of mute appeal. I felt sure that
he wished me to spurn the kingly honors. After reflecting a
moment, I asked:
"What benefits will one receive by initiation into the
Egyptian mysteries?”
“He will learn the hidden laws of Nature? He will learn
how the worlds are constructed. He will come to know the
manifestations of Universal Life; of what man is composed,
whence he came, why he is here, and whence he goeth. One
will also learn how to develop the soul.
Cannot one learn to develop without so much preliminary
study?
“One may walk around the base of a buildingand closely
examine the materials, yet such an inspection, alone, will give
him no knowledge of the general form of the structure. He
may, on the other hand, view the structure from some neigh-
boringeminence; he will thenhave an idea of its form, but no
knowledge of its materials. To know the secret of an atom is
to know the secret of God. Hence to become an initiate you
must learn the hidden law: of life and creation. To attempt a
use of the great force: of Nature without knowledge rerultr
only in destroying the ignorant operator. One who enters the
domain of occultism must becomeeither a Magus or a Sorcerer.
The former understands the forces evoked and knows the re-
sults, while the latter is like a child playingwith fire.”
As my higher self continued to talk in a low, musical voice,
50 NEDOURE
with scarcely any change in his position, I began to feel an
indefinable sensation creeping over me, and to feel a love for
this beingthatwords are powerless to express. I also became
filledwithan abhorence for the throneand its attendant power
and pleasures. Nor did I find in my heart a desire for revenge.
I experienced,instead, a feelingof compassion and pity.
As I sat thus reflecting,my visitor made a movement as if
to depart, when I impulsively rose to my feet and cried out in
a voice thatsounded strange and husky:
“Stay! Do not leave me!”
He smiled sweetly and sadly as he again motioned me to
my seat.
“Brother,it is not my desire to go hence from you. I have
longed for you every day, every hour and each minute since
our separation.”
‘Why, then, did you leave me?” I asked.
“Because, as beforestated, you had not the necessary power
of cohesion. It is dangerous for one to enter such a negative
state without the assistance of a strong guiding spirit. The
human body is but an incompatiblecompound, held together
by vitality.When this vitality or life departs the physical body
soon returns to the elements from which it came. But this is
not all; man consists of other principles,among which may be
found the Spiritual, that is ever seeking separation from the
physical.”
“Where, then, 0 mysterious one, have you been during
these months of absence?”
"Ah!” said he, the question was not unexpected. Though
separated from you, in one sense, I was and am still attached
by the invisible silver thread.
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 51
“To begin with, everything upon the earth has a spirit.
As thereis an ascendingscale upon the physical plane, so will
the same be found upon thespiritual. Some make the error of
dividingthingsinto animate and inanimateforms of existence.
The correct terms of difierentiationare organic and inorganic,
as everythinghas life, varying only in degree.
"As man consists of the most perfect physical form, so the
perfect man has also a superior spiritual essence. Thus it is
possible for the developed man to hold intercourse upon the
two planes. The ordinary mortal develops the physical only;
he is, therefore,restricted to thephysicalplane alone. Yet there
are those who develop their Spiritual sense while yet in their
earth life, and are thus enabled to receive knowledge from
the Universal Spirit.
“Since our separation I have dwelt in companionship with
such Spiritual mortals, and their harmonious chain of vibration
gave me strengthto exist apart from you.”
“Tell me more of them, I pray,” said I, hardly able to
suppress my great interest; for I had often meditated upon
that part of earth life of which we have so little knowledge.
“Before you can comprehend much concerning them, dear
brother, you must know more of Self; you will then realize
the One Great Self that embraces all. Though we cannot go
beyond that first inconceivable beginning,we may study and
comprehend the immutable laws that follow its manifestation.
"In the study of occultism we shall find that a few general
laws apply to a vast number of facts. Man works during the
day and tests at night. So, also, after a great period of creative
energy, the Universal Creative Principle tests. At all tbingr
are only visible by vibration, when that ceases they merge
52 NEDOURE
again into thegreat invisiblematrix. Such a period of inactivity
is called theNight of Brahm. Then manifestationbeginsagain.
The first motion is produced by the Unity dividing itself and
again seeking reunion.
"The first, or active Unity-principle, is represented by the
number One, and is called Intelligence.
“The second principle, resulting from this division, is
passive, and may be represented by the number Two. It is
called Matter.
“The action of these two principlesupon one another gives
birth to a third, and represented by the number Three. This
principle is called Force.
"These principles form the Sacred Trinityof the Infinite,
andare furtherexpressed as theFather,Son and HolySpirit. 2
“TheUniverse of mightysuns and planets,stars and worlds,
came forthfrom thewomb of thisgreat Intelligent First Cause.
“As man is but an infinitesimal miniature of the Great
Father,he, also, is a trinity."
’-‘In the Ancient Arcane this was Osiris, Isis and Horns;
i.e., Father,Mother and Son on both the physicaland Spiritual
planes.In theEsoteric, it was God, the Father,themother (Love
personified) and the Son, or Spiritual offspring. In the later
Arcane it was The Father,Love was the Conceiver and mani-
fester, Christos, the Son made manifest—the Christ, incarnate
and manifest Spark from God.
This was later changed by the orthodox to Father, Son
and Holy Ghost. The mother or love nature was discarded,
themasculineenthroned;feelingwas supplantedby creed. Hence
the gradual decay of the Spiritual, and the manifestation of a
materially dominated world.
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 53
"Tell me more of thesegreat truths,”said I, as he appeared
about to cease.
"No one can learn much in a single lifetime,” he gravely
replied, “and few can learn all the great lessons of Self in
many incarnations. In my present free and untrammeled state
I can look back over the vista of past incarnation and recall
the teachings of all ages, but, as yet, I am no more than a
neophyte.
"In my present state, however, no earthly considerations
can compare with knowledge. I desire nothing so much as
that light of truth which will hasten my return to the Father.
When you and I are again reunited, the lucidity of my vision,
and my knowledge of right and wrong, will be entirely sub-
servient to your active mind. I will be able to manifest my
desire and guide you through the faculty known as your con-
science. Yet,my dear brother,I look forward to the time when
we may again contemplate each other. Such a time will come
when you enter the inner circle of Light in the Brotherhoodof
the Magi.
“The life of a true Magus is a brilliant,shining light for
men. He reflects the light of the Creator as the Moon refleccs
the life giving rays of the Sun. The choice now remains with
you."
My decision was formed long before he ceased speaking,
and I promptly responded to his appeal:
"I choose to becomeone of the Magi.”
"Well said!” he exclaimed,with joyful emotion. "You have
chosen the reality instead of the illusion. I am with you now
to part no more," saying which he threw himself into my
arms.
54 NEDOURE
A feeling of inexpressiblehappiness stole over me, my eye-
lids became heavy as if under the influenceof some powerful
soporific, and I remembered no more as I sank into a deep
and peaceful sleep.
CHAPTERFOUR
Instnwtiom
Early the next morning I was awakened by the usual rap
upon my door.
While resting one elbow upon the small table beside me
and wonderinglyrubbingmy still drowsy eyes, I tried to recall
to my mind the strange and occult circumstances that had
caused me to go to sleep in my chair in this unusual manner.
As I mechanically extinguished the still burning candle the
events of the previous night began to flit through my brain
like the memory of a realistic dream. Arising, a stilfness was
observed in my limbs. A few rapid strides up and down the
small room did much to arouse me, and I began to feel a vigor
of body and clearness of mind to which I had been a stranger
for many months.
"Peace be with you, Hari, my boy; you are looking well,
and I see, for once, that you have arranged your room before
breakfast,” said Gobab, as he appeared at the door and cast a
glance of friendlygreeting at me and then another of surprise
toward my undisturbed cot. "You must have known that our
great master, theLama, comes to-day,” continued the corpulent
littlemonk,as he rubbedhis hands slowlytogetherand fastened
his thoughtful eyes upon the floor. He seemed about to say
something more, but he suddenly turned about and walked
away, down the corridor, while my mind had been so active
thatI neglected to make reply to his remarks,though I should
have liked to hear somethingmore about the Lama's visit.
It was the custom of the Dalai Lama to visit the various
monasteries of India and Thibetonce in every seven years. At
56 NEDOURE
such times he selected seven of the most promising chelas for
initiation into the order of the Magi. Such selections were
regarded as rewards of merit and, as such, were highly prized
by the students. The selected neophytes were then assigned to
one or other of the seven great temples of the world.
As I pondered over his coming I was happy and sad by
turns. Later in theday I found myself strolling down the road
that led past the house. The morning sun charged my system
withmagneticenergy,as I stood upon an elevated knoll, by the
side of the road, and gazed admiringly upon the picturesque
valley below. Its settings of wooded mountains and green
covered hills sloped grandlydownward to the junction of the
Indus and theJhelum, whose placidwaters here joined to flow
away southward to finallybecome lost in the Arabian Sea.
The valleyof Kashmir is about eighty-five miles in length,
and dotted here and there along the river, as far as the eye
can see, by beautifulhamlets and villages. It formed, thatday,
a picture that would have delighted the eye of an artist.
As if to complete the natural beautyof the scene, scores
of many-colored boats and floating houses, in which whole
families resided, lined the river.
As I stood thus, silentlyadmiring the scene, I was touched
lightly upon the shoulder. Turning,I beheld the sad yet kind
face of Gobab, who said, as he placed in my hand a sealed roll
of manuscript:
“Take this, my son and master, for of right you are my
master, though the hand of fate made you my son. You will
soon be called to the higher walks of life and must leave your
humble friend and servant, who loves you as a father. I may
add thatit will,perhaps, befor thebest if you do not read these
documents until you have attained the illumination.
PRIES'I'ESS OF THE MAGI 57
“Hari, my son," he continued, as tears began to dim the
old man’s eyes, “when you are far away beyond those great
mountains, I hope you will think,sometimes,of your old friend
and servant, Gobab. Send to me an occasional thoughtof love
and strengthand I will be happy.”
Although I had not before admitted it, this honest and
faithful old monk, who had been to me tutor, companion and
father,held a strong placein my heart. As I contemplated his
genuine griefit was hard to restrain the tears thatinvoluntarily
welled up in my eyes. Before I was scarcely aware of it I had
thrown my arms around him, saying:
“Dear Gobab, I shall never forget you. Although I know
not all you may have done for me, yet enough is understood
of the past to make you my best and dearest friend."
"Say no more, Hari,I am happy. Yours is a peculiar nature
thatshows neither love not hate, which is correct according to
the Master. But your kind words have made me happy in the
midst of my loneliness."
Thus happily understanding each other we wandered for
hours about thevale, conversing as only dear friendscan before
a long and uncertain separation. He spoke with less reserve
than usual. Though known to all as a man of great learning,
especially in regard to religion and the science of life, few, if
any, had ever guessed the profundity of his knowledge.
It was past middaywhen we returned to the monastery. As
we entered we knew by the strange servants about that the
Dalai Lama had arrived.
Three days afterwards found me on my way to the home
of theMagi—Egypt, the land of Mystic Light.
58' NEDT
”
ot-mi:
CHAPTERFIVE
InitiatoryStudies
Six years quicklypassed, during which time I studied hard
in order to master the preparatory studies for initiation into
the great Egyptian Mysteries. Although even more secluded
than before, time passed quickly,as under the tutelage of that
world-famed instructor, Pheros, and in the company of half a
dozen other neophytes, my mind had reached that degree of
unfoldmentwherein I realized thata long lifewas far too short
for one who would delve into the wisdom of infinity.
In the great enclosed gardens of the temple, myriads of
strange plants were cultivated, whose virtues were known only
to the student of occult science.
In fact, a lifetime might alone be spent in studying the
secret virtues of herbs and plants.‘ In the basement of the
1 It must be constantlyrememberedthat during thisperiod
of the world’s history, all, without exception, who were to be-
come teachers, priests and rulers, were compelled by the Priest-
hood and the Laws of the country, to enter the Secret Schools,
the Labyrinthsof the Greater Mysteries at an early age, and all
education was conducted by Acolytes and Initiates.
After a certain period of instructions the Neophyte was
not only given certain details to master, but also duties to
perform; he became both student-Neophyte and teacher.
To begin with, it was agriculture, because food had to be
raised for the members and Neophytes in the temple; then it
was medicine or the herbs and plants of value to the human
creature; experiments in Alchemy followed, which gradually
led into chemistry, at single instance being the fact that these
men of the School had, by experiments, learned to harden cop-
per to a temper equal to steel; a secret not yet rediscovered.
60 NEDOURE
grand Templeof Edfou, where both my days and nights were
so interestingly spent, was the most perfectly appointed lab-
oratory for alchemical experiments in the known world.
At the time of which I write, 527 B. C., Thebes was not
only the beautiful pearl of the upper Nile but was also the
grand repository of art and science.
Surrounded by a great wall, adorned with many gates,
over each of which towered that handiwork of the sculptor
which immortalized heroes, the great city extended, on both
sides of the river, from mountain to mountain, and with suf-
ficient length, from north to south, to form a perfect square.
On the eastern side of the river Nile, amid gorgeous palaces
and princely homes, towering stately in their magnificence
were the temples of Edfou and Medinet-Abou. To the west-
ward, amid architecture scarcely less grand, were the famous
temples of Luxor and Carnac.
Edfou and Medinet-Abouwere for the exclusive use of the
Magi, while those on the western banks of the Nile were for
the use of the pagan priests.
The day had arrived for our initiation into the first degree
of the mysteries.
Following behind our beloved instructor, Pheros, and
This period of study and probation continued until the
Neophytehad become an Initiate, a Priest, a Lawgiver, a Legis-
lator, a King or Emperor. In some instances, this required
twenty-one years. To fail in becoming an Initiate or reaching
Soul Consciousness, was to die. Once the Acolyte entered the
Mystery Schools he was dead to the world untilhe had attained
to consciousness or had brought about his own undoing. No
,
Authoritycould interfere withthe action of thegoverningLaw.
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 61
dressed in the plain white robes and peculiarlyconstructed caps
of the neophytes, six in number, we stepped lightly,yet with
apprehension, into the graceful river-boat that awaited us at
the foot of the wide stone stairway that led from the temple
gate to the waters edge.
Mindful of thewholesome advice of Pheros, each neophyte
felt himself imbued with sufficient courage to meet with bold-
ness any unknown horror that might await us in the dread
initiation of Medinet-Abou.
The Sun was about to sink behind the great Libyan
mountain range, to the westward, as the six powerful Nubian
boatmen dipped their oars, like a single man, into the placid
waters of the Nile. As the boat sped lightly over the water the
oarsmen burst forth into a rude barbaric chant that seemed to
soothe and calm the suppressed excitement which filled each
student's breast. As they warmed to their work their great
muscular cords playedunder thesurfaceof their blackskins like
entwined serpents.
On the raised deck at the stern sat a tall, morose Egyptian
withhis hand upon thelong polerudder withwhich he guided
the boat as it threadedits way through the maze of craft that
filled the stream.
As we sat around in the open cabins all, save one, held
within his bosom a flutteringheart. Pheros alone was devoid
of excitement. Tall, thin and angular, he towered like a giant
above his students. With a small head, black hair, and eyes
that glittered and contrasted strangely with his sallow com-
plexion and thin lips, he looked anything but the genius he
reallywas.
Totallydevoid of beard; his facelooked much like an aged
62 NEDOURE
mummy. It was left for theeyes alone to express theintelligence
withwhich that small but powerful brain was stored.
As our boat glided on its way, each member of our party
maintained an outward silence, being content to listen to the
din of noises that rose at times above the monotonous river
song of our boatmen. YetI,for one, spent the time in a mental
catechism of myself.
When we had passed the most crowded portion of the
river and found ourselves comparatively alone, Pheros, whose
keen eyes had been swiftly moving from one to the other of
us, said abruptly:
"My dear boys, though I cannot go with you through the
mysteries that confront you, I hope that each of you will bear
in mind my parting advice and caution. To KNOW, to DARE
and to KEEP SILENT are the watchwords of the Magi.”
At these last words he fastened his glittering black eyes
upon us as if he would burn these thoughts into our very souls.
Continuing,he said:
“Where theprofaneare content to study physics,theMagus
proceeds into the realm of Natural Magic and metaphysics.
The former ends with chemistry, while you progress through
alchemy and Hermetic philosophy. The uninitiated study
natural history only, whereas you investigate still further into
livingNature and her higher principles.The profane may learn
physiology,or even psychology, but you soar into the realms
of Psychurgy and Theurgy. Where one is content with the
shadow the other demands the reality.
"With Souls filledwith faith, hope and courage, you will
be honored, and I will be made supremely happy. Nothing
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 63
will give me more pleasure than to salute you as brothers
Pastophoris.” (First degree.)
As each neophyte bowed a mute reply of thanks our boat
swept with a majestic curve into the canal which led to the
temple of Medinet-Abou.
On each side of the canal could be seen wide promenades,
constructed of large, smooth stones, interspersed at short
intervals by gateways that led down, by broad stone steps, to
the water of the canal.
Along the promenades a vast concourse of people walked
slowly to and fro, gravely discussing the temple discourse, to
which theyhad just listened.
Richlydressed men and women mingledwith plainly clad
sages, and formed a throng that extended back within the
temple gates.
The ceremonies during theday were public, but the night
services were reserved exclusively for the Initiates and their
sacred and solemn rites.
With our preceptor in the lead, we left the boat and
ascended the stone steps from the landing, and continued on-
ward until we reached the imposing gateway leading to the
temple of Medinet-Abou.
This great, massive structure was built in the form of an
immense oblong. Around it, constructed so as to form a perfect
square, was a stone wall about twenty cubits in height. Pursuing
our way through the vast throng we soon reached the wall’s
outer gateway. On each side of this entrance stood two tall
pillars of pyramidal form. Entering the open gateway we
found ourselves in a spacious paved avenue, about sixty cubits
in breadth by two hundred in length.
64 NEDOURE
"This is the sacred dromos of Anubis,” remarked Pheros.
Through thewhole lengthof thedromos, and on each side
of it, sphinxes were placed, facing each other, at a distance of
six cubits apart.
As we followed along the avenue of Sphinxes, our master,
who rarely omitted an opportunity of imparting knowledge to
his pupils, stopped suddenly in front of one of them and, with
a wave of thehand,said in his ratherharsh voice:
"Observe that this mystic emblem, the Sphinx, combines
the characteristics of an angel, an eagle, a lion and a bull. It
has the claws of a lion, the flanks of a bull, the wings of an
eagleand the head and breasts of a woman.
“The head is to know, the claws are to dare, the flanks to
desire, and thewings to keep silent.
“The symbol of the Unity is expressed by the combination
of all these strange forms in one.
“Truthis indicatedby the head, or knowledgebeingplaced
above the lower elements.
“The symbol of the Absolute is shown by the mystic
quartenary.”
After leaving the avenue of Sphinxes we passed through
three propylaewhen the grandeur of the temple, proper, burst
upon us.
On eachside of thegreat doorwaywere two tall, artistically
carved pillars,extendingthefull height of the structure. As we
stepped upon a huge marble slab the ponderous doors swung
slowly open. Continuing, we passed through a vestibule with
six richlycarved marble pillarson each side. With Pheros still
in the lead, we silently entered a large rotunda, filled with
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 65
priests and other high functionaries, who were divided into
groups, conversingin low but earnest voices.
An oflicer, who was apparently expecting us, moved
quicklyover to the side of Pheros and after a short whispered
consultation, made a sign for me to follow him. I glanced
hurriedly toward my preceptor who, with a look of assurance,
advanced and gave my hand a farewell pressure. Then,without
speaking a word, I set forth upon my unknown mission.
Followingmy conductor up many flights of stone stairs, we
finallyarrived in front of a pair of closed doors, upon theupper
floor of the temple.
After a few peculiar knocks the doors silentlyswung open
and we were admitted.
66 NEDOURE
CHAPTERSIX
The Halls of theMagi
Thescene thatnow met my eyes was a most impressiveone.
Around the onyx-covered walls of the spacious room, which
embraced the entire upper floor of the temple, were seated
hundreds of the Magi. With their white robes and many
colored faces theyformed a truly strange picture.
Extending the full lengthof the room, on bothsides, were
a numberof sandstonepillars,so ingeniouslystreaked with red
thattheygave forth a rich glowingtint. On each of the walls,
graven upon their huge slabs of onyx, numerous astrological
emblems were pictured in magnificent designs of gold and
silver.
At the eastern end of thehall was a most realistic represen-
tation of the Sun, wrought in solid gold. In the center of this
gorgeous emblem was a round white light of such power and
brilliancythatthe eye was powerless to look upon it. On each
side of this great central light two gigantic prisms were so
placedthata flood of many colored lights streamed forth to the
adjacentwalls.
The gorgeous rainbow effects were not onlygrand but awe-
inspiring, and filled me with a holy respect for these men of
wisdom and a thirstfor thegreat divineprinciplesso beautifully
symbolized.
At an altar, a short distance in front of thegreat light, was
seated the Grand Magus.
Similaraltars were also located in thewest and south.These
were incrusted with precious stones.
Through the center of this great hall, amid an impressive
68 NEDOURE
silence,I was led to the officer at thesouth altar who recorded
my name, age, experience, and other personal matters upon
P3PYl'“3-
From thenceI was conducted to the officer at thewest altar.
He questioned me as to whether or not I had any friend or
acquaintance in the order who would be willingto act as my
Sponsor or God-Father! On being answered in the negative he
began to scan a long list of names.
I was then brought before the Grand Magus. He paid but
little attention to me; in fact, he seemed hardly aware of my
presence. As I stood thus motionless before the old man the
officer of the south arose and read, in a loud voice, the data
concerning me. This was followed by the officer of the west
crying out:
"Moeris, Sponsor!”
As my eyes wandered around they fell upon one I had
hitherto unobserved. A beingfar surpassing in beautythemost
extravagant dream, sat, like one entranced, to the left and a
little behind the Grand Magus. She appeared more like an
angel than a beingof earth. Withher perfect features and skin
of alabaster whiteness, surrounded by a profusion of golden
hair that fell about her exquisitely moulded shoulders, she
presented a picture whose fascinatingloveliness I cannot hope
to describe.
Instead of beingslight and fragile, like the few women I
had seen in my country, she was of large and generous propor-
tions, yet perfectlyformed.
As I gazed upon her, enraptured and lost in admiration,
she slowlyraised her large brown eyes and looked curiously at
me for a moment and then, assuming her former abstracted
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 69
pose, she again appeared to continue a train of thought that,
seemingly,bore her far away from her mystical surroundings.
During the moment that this transcendental beautyturned
upon me her great, expressive brown eyes, half hidden by their
marvelous drooping eyelashes, I felt as if electrified or raised
up. Though I turned my eyes in every direction, save toward
her, I found it utterly impossible to banish the dream of love-
liness that had imprinted itself upon my now whirling brain.
This sudden apparitionof beautywas for me most inoppor-
tune, as it filled me with a strange confusion at what was,
withoutdoubt, themost important moment of my life.
With the desperation of despair I looked full into the eyes
of the old Magus who sat thoughtfullybeforeme, but her large,
lustrous eyes and face of classical beautycould not beso readily
banished from my impressionable mind. Though I dared not
look toward her again, now and then I felt a strange tremor
that made me aware of her gaze.
In the meantime the old Magus, whose kindly face was
framed in a profusion of gray hair, fastened his keen eyes upon
me for several minutes, as if he was reading my past, present
and future. He was, no doubt, awaiting the arrival of my
Sponsor.
Presently a dignified looking Magus came forward and,
without noticing me, bowed low before the old man, saying:
"Most revered Master, your servant, Moeris, was hastily
called away to Heliopolis."
“It is well,” repliedtheGrand Magus: "then must Nedoure
assume the care of this young neophyte.”
With another low bow the brother retired.
The Grand Magus then straightened himself in his seat,
70 NEDOURE
and, while his eyes assumed a preternaturalbrightness,he gave
threeloud raps upon thealtar witha smalliron gavel.
This was followed, at once, by absolute silence.
Then, in a clear, strong voice, he said:
“Brethren, extend your aid to the neophyte, who is about
to travel the rough and narrow pa
”
At thispoint he leaned backin his chair, closed his eyes and
appeared to go into a self-induced sleep.
As I stood therealone in front of thisstrange old man and
beautifulwoman, with my conductor standing at a respectful
distance, I exerted all my will power to maintain a serene
demeanor, though I was unable to forget the vision of the
lovely creature near me.
Presently I felt myself lifted, or raised as it were, into the
air. Yetno hands could be felt upon any part of my person. It
was as if I was yielding to some irresistible attraction. During
this time my mind or inner self also underwent a change; I
grew strong, hopeful and fearless.
Although this experience, which resulted from powerful
concentration, as manifested through the great magnetic chain
of thebrotherhood,lasted less thanone minute, it seemed much
longer, when I was again, by themutual desire of thebrothers,
returned to the floor. The old Magus aroused himself,looked
around in a satisfied manner, and, turning to the beautiful
young woman, said:
"Nedoure, fair Priestess of the Magi, you will now impose
the sacred and terrible oaths upon the humble neophyte.”
Thus bidden, the beautifulPriestess arose and approached,
witha lithe and gracefulstep, to theside of the Magus. As she
stood there, draped in spotless white, and wearing upon her
PRIES'I'ESS OF THE MAGI 71
bosom a small bouquet of lotus flowers-——one blue and two
white——het incomparable loveliness grew more pure and
majesticthanmy soul had ever pictured Isis, the Great Mother.
After she had read the binding oaths, which I am not
permitted to record, she remained standing by the side of the
old man, who proceeded as follows:
“The primordial doctrine of our esoteric religion is the real
essential unity of the Divine Nature.
"There is one sole producer of all things, both of heaven
and earth—Himselfnot produced by any—the only true and
livingGod, self-originated,who exists from thebeginning,who
has made all things,but has not, Himself,been made.
"The name of thisgreat beingit is unlawful to pronounce
or write. He is not graven in marble. He is not beheld; and
vain are all representations. His commencement is from the
beginning;He is theGod who has existed from all time. There
is no God withoutHim. No mother bore Him; no fatherhath
begotten Him. He is a God-Goddess, created from Himself.
All gods came into existence when He began.
“Thoughmany gods are worshiped in this land, theInitiate
recognizes in them naught but the attributes of the Supreme
Deity. Num represents the creative mind; Phtah, the creative
hand, or act of creating; Maut represents matter; Ra, the Sun;
Khons, themoon; Set, the earth; Khem, the generativepowers
of Nature; Nut, the upper hemisphere of the heavens; Athor,
the lower world. Thoth, personifies the Divine Wisdom;
Ammon,theDivineMysteries,and Osiris, theDivine Goodness.
These gods are but symbolical of the One. '
"In the mysteries of our order we must first recognize the
great TripleGradation:
72 NEDOURE
“First, the infinitedomain of Facts;
"Second,therestricted domain of Laws, or secondary causes;
“Third, the restricted domain of Principles.
“Following this gradation,man is but a relative unit, con-
tained in the absolute Unity of the great whole; and, like the
universal ternary, contains three modifying principles of Body,
Soul and Spirit.
“The Soul is what contains the passions, and presents, in
its turn, three divisions—the rational soul, the irascible soul,
and thesoul of appetite.
The appetite facultyof thesoul consists of intemperance or
avarice.
“The facultyof irascibilityof the soul consists of cowardice.
“The facultyof the soul's reason consists of folly.
“In this degree, 0 untried Neophyte, it must be your aim
to banish all cowardice from your nature.
“Each of the four physical elements—Fire, Earth, Air and
Water—embrace within themselves myriads of Elementary
Spirits. These beings willinglybecome the servant of the man
who has bothcourage and wisdom.
“In order to control the Gnomes,or the elementals of the
earth, he must descend to the bottom of some dangerous pit.
To control theUndines,theelementals of water, he must swim
through a whirlpool, or do somethingequally as daring. He
must, in fact, show an utter contempt for the elements before
he can hope to control any class of their spirits.
“As you go forth in your search for knowledgemany real
dangers will beset your path.None, however, will be so great
that you cannot overcome them with a strong Will and
undauntedcourage. But he who hesitates is lost. Bear in mind
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 73
thatwhen you enter thegate thatswings ever inward, therecan
be no turning back. Death await: the unfortunate one who
would retrace his steps.”
The Grand Magus here ceased speaking for a moment and
whispered a few words to Nedoure, who gravely bowed her
assent. Then, fixing his bright black eyes full upon me, he
resumed:
"Henceforthyou will be known to the brothers as Althos,
and my daughter, Nedoure, the Priestess of our order, will be
your physicalsponsor—-your Spiritual guru will be met on your
journey to thegoal.”
Notwithstanding the dangers implied by his words of
warning and advice, I am proud to record thatI felt no appre-
hension where many neophytes become frightened and
withdraw.
At thismoment thelovelyNedoure stepped to my side and,
grasping my hand, gave me a look of encouragement as she
said:
“Althos,my dear brother,be brave and strong; you cannot
fail. Remember,I await your return. Spurn all temptation and
look ever forward to thegoal.”
Then withoutwaitingfor a replyshe again took her position
by her father'sside.
The features of the Grand Magus now relaxed and he
regarded me, for the first time, with a kind expression, and, in
a lower and more kindlyvoice, said:
“Althos,you are now aware of thedangers of therough and
narrow way and thetrials and perilsthatwill beset you therein.
Do you still desire to go forward, or would you rather retire?”
All the assembly seemed, from the silence that followed
76 NEDOURE
faintlythroughtheperfumed air and gave evidenceof an inner
83Y¢tY-
Following these soft, enchanting sounds, one would have
been led to the "Palace of Diversion," a large and spacious
one-story structure situated a short distance from the King's
palace, which latter was known and designated as the “Home
of theHeaven-Born.”
Fierce looking guards, some lounging in careless attitudes
and others standing erect, with their short, curved swords at
theirsides, were stationedat regularintervals alongthebrilliant-
ly lighted balcony, which extended the entire length of the
building.
Entering thegreat marblehall, a scene of Oriental splendor
and gayety met the eye. A sumptuous repast had long since
given place to the hookah pipes, which had been enjoyed in
speciallyconstructed dens. The court nobles and their beautiful
ladies had returned to witness theterpsichorean feats of dancing
girls, drawn by thepleasure loving Maharaja from all parts of
the world.
The arched roof of this great pleasure palace had been
newlypainted and decorated by Egypt's most famous artists, and
had cost the lavish monarch but little less than the two rows
of marble pillars that extended down each side of the great
room. Though these fancy carved pillars were in themselves
works of art, they were almost hidden by glittering gems of
fabulous value.
At the farther end of the hall, seated upon a gorgeous
throneand surrounded by his richlyappareled courtiers, sat the
Maharaja. Blazing forth from his crown, with an unrivaled
splendor,could be seen theKoh-i-Nur, or “Mountain of Light,”
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 77
thefamous gem thatonce ornamented the sword of Afraesiab,
who lived 3,000 years B. C., and which was afterward taken
from Shah Shuya of Persia by the redoubtable Randjid Sing.
On either side the Maharaja was surrounded by nobles
whose proud lineageextendedbackto theage of theSurya-Bans.
He, however, far outshone them all in the splendor of his
dress. In fact, his long robe, of indigo color, was almost com-
pletelyhidden by its lavish profusionof blazingjewels.
Presently, at the loud blast of a conch shell, all became
silent. A moment later three of Persia’s most famous dancing
girls appeared.
As theyissued from a curtained nook, in theside of thehall,
all eyes were turned upon them. Though beautiful,their faces
were almost expressionless. Each wore upon thehead a garland
of bright colored flowers that contrasted strangely with their
rich black tresses which hung down below the waist.
They were of uniform size, and each possessed a faultless
figure. As they came forward, in single file, the dark eyes of
themonarch fairlyglistenedwithpleasurableanticipation.
When thedancers arrived directlyin front of theMaharaja
they gracefullybowed until their foreheads touched the floor.
As theyarose themusic began. Inspiring strains came from an
invisible orchestra, hidden in an arbor of tropical plants.
With the brightest of smiles, and eyes that looked every-
where, yet saw no one, theybeganwiththeremarkableOriental
march. Every muscle of their developed frames moved in
rhythmicharmony to the weird music.
As they proceeded with their sensuous evolutions they
seemed to lose consciousness of their surroundings. Their
dreamyeyes and poeticmotions showed that,for a time at least,
78 NEDOURE
they had entered that fairy realm of idealation that all true
artists seek. Their souls were responding to the harmonies of
music.
Afterhavingbeen called and recalled by royal approbation,
each of the fair dancers retired, with bows, bearing huge
bouquets, to each of which was appended a beautifuljeweled
ring. They had scored a great triumph.
The next announcement was that of the magicians, better
known as fakirs. The gay throng again became breathlessly
quiet. By preconcerted arrangement all the lights were lowered
until the great hall was in almost total darkness. While the
spectators awaited, with suppressed excitement, the arrival of
the fakirs, a bright ring of light began to manifest itself over
the spot latelyheld by the dancers. It rapidly formed at about
theheight of a man. It at first assumed a bright red color. This
was, a few seconds later, interspersed with rays of vivid blue;
the red then became brighter and brighter, until scintillations
of green appeared.
Suddenly a loud, hoarse shout burst forth from the center
of thisuncannyaura. As a flash,the lights assumedat once their
former brightness; when lo! before the astounded audience
stood seven great stalwart men, draped in long, flowing black
robes,bound at thewaist by belts composed of brightlypolished
ivory rings. As theystood thus,silentand immovable,withtheir
gloomyblackfaces, theylooked like veritable statues of ebony.
Withoutspeaking or moving theykept their eyes steadilyfixed
upon their leader, who alone possessed a black,curly beard and
wore over his shoulders a robe.Stepping from thehuman circle,
the latter gravely bowed, and holding up both hands to the
Maharaja,withseven fingers outstretched, he motioned toward
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 79
his assistants. Then he again held forth his hands with only
six fingers extended.
Then turning suddenly about, his dark features relaxed
theirgravity and assumed a wild and somewhat terrible aspect
as he shouted loudly to his followers in a strange tongue.
Whereupon, withhimselfin thelead, theybeganmarching,
countermarching, and intermingling as in a drill. They thus
moved to and fro so rapidly that it was well nigh impossible
for the eye to follow their intricate evolutions. In a few
moments theycame to an abruptstandstillwhen, to thesurprise
of all, onlysix fakirs could beseen.
Then, holdingaloft theextended fingers of one hand only,
the leader of this strange body of Black Tantrikas turned
quickly, as before, and uttered his peculiar exclamation or
command. They executed a similarmarch, as before, and again
came to a sudden halt, when only five remained. Althoughthe
spectators had often seen similarexhibitions,it was none theless
marvelous. These strange marches were repeated untilonly two
remained. The interest and expectation of the audience was
now at fever heat, as word had been whispered around that
Tantras, the gigantic leader of the mystics,‘ held a surprise in
store for them.
1The term “mystic” was almost altogether employed by
writers on the subject of the Arcane, Esoteric and Occult until
about 1900. It is a misrepresenting term. Mystics are what the
term indicates: Mediators, Spiritual dreamers, those given to
inner comtemplation, but never to those who are positive of
mind, actors, doers; those who command or “bring about.”
The men here mentioned were Occultists, but they were
of the dark school, usually called “Black Magicians." They
used the power and forces they had developed within them-
80 NEDOURE
As thetwo Tantrikasstood lookingsternlyat eachother,like
ancient gladiators,their heavy breathingcould be plainlyheard
above thesubdued murmurs of admiration.
Then while the other, with a meek attitude, let his eyes
drop to the floor, Tantras, looking upward and extending
both arms aloft, uttered in a low voice some mystic prayer or
invocation. A moment later he gave vent to a deep guttural
gnmt of sadsfactionas he caught a large black born that came
from theapparentlyempty space above. Withouteven a glance
toward the spectators he then seized his companion in no easy
manner withone hand around theneck, and from the uplifted
horn in the other began to pour over him a dark, ill-smelling
oil or mixture. At this his companion sank to the floor, when
Tantras at once covered himwithhis own robe.The lights again
becamedim yet thegreat figureof themagiciancould beplainly
seen bendingover the prostrate form. The room became still
darker, for a moment, when the lights again blazed forth with
their usual brilliancy.
To the surprise and horror of all, Tantras was seen seated
upon a small but richly-caparisoned elephant. A smile of
approval from the Maharaja called forth a tremendous burst of
selves, and of which they were masters, for evil, i.e., mislead-
ing and degenerating, or destructive purposes.
As an example, we may designate two physicians, both
educated and trained in the same school, both of the same
ability. Both fully understand the component parts of the
poisonous remedies, Aconite or Belladonna. Both have full
knowledge of their use and abuse. One of them employs them
to relieve the ill; the other to destroy for selfish purposes. They
are trained alike; theyemploy the same agent, but for diametri-
cally opposite purposes.
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 81
applause.With a bow and thefirst smilethathad appeared on
his face during the evening, the magician rode forth from the
building.Even in theland of mysteries, Tantras had by his last
feat called forth the admiration and wonder of all.
82
CHAPTEREIGHT
The Maharaja
A few hours after the dispersion of the gay assemblage,
quietreignedsupreme throughoutthepalaces.The royal village
was in general darkness, although here and there a faint
glimmer of light, escaping through the folds of rich Syrian
curtains, indicated thatsome notable stillcontinued to burn the
midnight oil.
However the Maharaja had not retired, nor did he intend
so doing. With petulant impatience he had dismissed the
members of his numerous retinue, and alone with his trusty
chamberlain retired to his luxurious cbambre a coucbe. The
chamberlain,noticing a tired and nervous expression upon the
face of the ruler, knew at once what was expected, and so
proceeded to arrange the opium layout upon a gorgeous divan.
After assisting the profligaremonarch to disrobe he began
to prepare the enticing fumes. For about an hour they lay
silently,one preparing and theother inhaling the only known
poison thatsoothes and at thesame time stimulates. When the
pupils of his eyes had contracted and the desires of habit had
been appeased, theMaharajasaid:
“Gudakesha, my faithful servant, what thinkest thou of
thy master?”
‘'0 Light of the World, who maketh the ‘Mountain of
Light" to look pale, thyservant knowethwell thatthoustandest
alone, without equal.”
1This term is applicable only to those who have attained
to Philosophic Initiation, having by sincere desire, and long
continued effort, opened and developed the great center of
84 NEDOURE
So saying, the chamberlain again extended the seductive
pipe, made of rarest horn and tipped with purest ivory. With
a strange, thoughtful expression the Maharaja consumed the
portion with one long inhalation, replying,as he returned the
pipe to be replenished:
“Dost thou think,0 wise servant, thatI am happy?”
"If thouart not happy,0 Ruler of all Kashmir, thoucanst
easilybecomeso. For who upon thisearthcould refuse to obey
thy commands, or withstand thymighty arm?”
“True. But knowest thou not, 0 Gudakesha, son of my
father'sservant, thatthe world hath treasures thatmay neither
be taken by arms, not purchased withgold?"
“Even so, great heaven-born monarch; that which cannot
be purchased with gold not taken by arms, whatsoever it may
be,can certainlybesecured by thystrategicbrain, 0 my master.”
“Good!” said themonarch, witha smileof genuinesatisfac-
tion. "Thy fertile brain, 0 loyal servant, tempts me to speak
plainly with thee.
"Perchance thou recallest our visit to Egypt a few moons
past, thatwe might see and know more of our friend and ally,
Amasis. Thou mayest also recall the houri of paradise, with
hair of gold and large brown eyes like the gazelle—thebeauty
whose loveliness was only equaled by her great wisdom. She
was the priestess in some strange order, the name of which
comes not at present to our mind. Her own name cannot be
forgotten-—it was Nedoure~—Nedoute—Nedoure.”
light. According to John and other Biblical references, they
are the Brethren of Light, and as such would destroy them-
selves if they employed the Light for other than constructive
and Spiritual purposes.
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 85
The monarch closed his opium bedimmed eyes and con-
tinued to murmur, witha blissful smile,"Nedoure-—Nedoure-—
thoushalt, indeed, bemine——Nedoure.”
The chamberlain made no reply but worked silentlywith
'
a long needle-like instrument, preparing the narcotic for his
royalmaster. In a moment theMaharaja awoke from his dream-
like state, and witha frown, terrible to behold,said in an angry
manner‘
"Speak, slave! Why dost thou not give reply to the query
of thymaster?”
“0 great and undeteriorating one, terror of foes, my
diminutive brain can see no reason why thy desires can be
thwarted—— least of all by a woman. Canst not thygreat ma-
gicians give aid unto thee, when theyare able to set at naught
the known laws of Nature?”
"Greatmind,penetratingintellect, withthycunning reason
thouhastgivenme strengthto carry our designs alreadyformed!
'I'hou mayest leave me now, 0 Gudakesha, and may thydreams
be happy, as thou hast rendered a favor to thy master which
will be repaid ere the setting of to-morrow’s sun.”
At these words of dismissal the Chamberlain silently
gatheredup the paraphernaliaof the opium layout, and, after
carefully replacing it in a locker, he walked backward to the
door, bowed low and was gone.
Left alone, the Maharaja's eyes assumed a feverish bright-
ness as he rushed into an adjoining room from which he
returned, a moment later, dressed in a long blackgown, bound
at thewaist witha beltsimilarto thoseworn by theperforming
fakirs of the evening. Casting his eyes furtively around the
room, he moved from one door to another, carefully trying all
86 NEDOURE
the bolts. Apparently satisfied, he moved toward a frescoed
panel in thewall and pressing a spring,hidden amid thedecora-
tions, caused an unsuspected door to swing noiselessly upon its
bearings. As the secretive monarch was familiar with it and
thedarkpassage thatit concealed,he entered withouthesitation,
seized a small lamp from its convenient niche near the secret
door and slowlydecended a narrow and almost perpendicular
stairway. At thebottom he foundhimself in a smallroom, about
threecubitssquare, withno other furniture thana solitarystool.
He looked neither to the right not left, but proceeded at once
to unlock a pondetous door, the only visible exit from this
underground chamber. As he opened it a strong gust of air
almost extinguished his light.
Shading his lamp with his hand, he entered a passage of
sufficient height to enable him to walk erect, but so narrow
that not more than two persons could advance through it side
byside.
This narrow tunnel had apparently been hewn through
solid rock. That it was seldom used was evident by the thick
layerof accumulateddust which layupon thefloor.
Yet theMaharaja proceeded on his way withouthesitation.
Continuingfor some time, he came abruptly into a large cham-
berthatappeared to betheterminus. He stopped for a moment,
raised the light above his head and looked as though seeking
someone.
Standing almost directly opposite him on the other side of
the room he beheld, motionless and gloomy, the great fakir,
Tantras.
"Ah, my good Tantras, as thou seest, I am here."
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 87
Placing the tips of his fingers to his forehead, the fakir
made a low bow and replied:
“True, 0 bold Maharaja; as thou hast come thus far, there
can be no doubt that thouwill go still farther.”
Advancing,withhis glitteringblackeyes fastenedupon the
fakir as if he would read his very soul, theMaharaja, withgrim
determination,repliedzz
"Where thougoest, O Tantras, there shall I follow.”
“Your majesty hath, indeed, no knowledge of fear?”
"Whyshouldst I fear, 0 Tantras? I cannot lose more than
life, and life without Nedoure were not worth the living! As
thy great power hath more than once caused her image to
appear before me in the magicmirror, so verilyI believethou
canst bring her here by thy powerful chatrns and secret
influence.”
Without appearing to note his last observation, Tantras
replied:
“Those engaged in the employment of Occult forces and
powers for other than Spiritual or Humanitarian purposes,
recognize neither God, king, emperor, moral, Spiritual or any
other power. To them there is but one reality—the greatest of
all unrealities—power.
Life without power has no meaning to them, hence their
willingnessto forfeit life itself in their pursuit if that becomes
necessary. If those seeking the Path of Life were as ready and
as willingto make the same Spiritual effort, many gods would
be walking this beautifulearth and peace would reign. Black
Magicians have destroyed all sense of fear, and “what is man
but a god afraid,” or a devil incarnate? Lack of fear gives man
complete freedom of action even to his own destruction, or, on
the other hand, the attainment of Godhood.
88 NEDOURE
“If thou art prepared, 0 mighty Maharaja, to go further,
you will meet the Prince Upadan, before whom my power is
no more than the shadow to an object.”
“I have decided to go whither thou leadest.”
"Good,” replied Tanrras, “and may your majesty be found
wanting in naught. Our mystic work requires only a strong
arm and a strong heart, inviolate secrecy and a blind willing-
ness to obey.
“Forget, then, 0 great Maharaja, that thou art my king,
for while in the realm of the Black Tantrikas, we are hence-
forth brothers only.”
Then, extendinga small flask that he had evidentlypicked
from the floor, he added:
“Drink, 0 royal brother,that thou mayest cross the thres-
hold.”
Without hesitation, the desperate monatch placed it to his
lips and drank long and deep. As he returned thehorn, Tantras
seized the light from the hands of the Maharaja,’ and then
quicklyextinguished it, leaving them both in total darkness.
CHAPTERNINE
Tantras, The BlackMagician
As the light was extinguished a cloak was thrown over the
Maharaja’s head, and strong arms seized him from all sides.
He felt himself raised up and hurriedly borne away;
whither or by whom he knew not, nor did he care as he had
firmly decided upon joining the “Brotherhood of the Lett.”
He could form no idea of the direction in which he was
carried. He might have been borne in a straight line, through
a winding passage, or he might have been simply carried
around the room in a circle.
After a short time, with his vision still obscured, he was
seated upon the ground.
If he could not see he could at least hear, and the sound
of a numberof voices, united in a weird chant, reachedhis ears.
Presently the covering was raised from his head. Looking
around he found himself seated on the bare ground in what
appeared to be a natural cavern. The rough, bare walls of
jutting stone were covered with a film of greenish slime. By
theflickeringlight of threelarge blackcandleshe saw a number
of almost nude forms.
Standing amid the candles, in the center of three large
circles of undressed kid skin, he saw Tantras.
Near the black magician, on either side, stood two dark
taciturn assistants. In the outer circle were to be seen three
more of the dark brotherhood. Each wore about the loins a
cloth of brightest red, and upon the head turbans of dark
green. Otherwisetheywere entirelydevoid of clothing.Directly
90 NEDOURE
in front of Tantras stood an earthen vessel filledwith burning
red coals and ill-smellingincense.
As the Maharaja, seated on the outer edge of the circle,
looked upon these strange chanting devotees, Tantras, with
uplifted hands, began in a low voice and strange tongue, to
call upon invisible entities. At first his face bore the usual
lack of expression, but as he became more and more excited
with his unintelligible appeals, his eyes began to glitter like
those of an insane man, whilehis huge body began to sway in
unison with the chant, in which all joined.
As the incantation became louder and louder his muscles
stood forth in knots beneath his shining skin. Louder and
louder grew his hoarse, discordant voice, while great drops of
perspiration rolled down his heated limbs. At times he assumed
a tone of command, at others the ring of an appeal sounded
in his voice.
During this time one of his assistants constantly fed the
fire withvile smellingfumes. However, the Maharaia seemed
surprised at nothingbut remained seated upon the ground, a
silent but interested spectator of this weird scene.
Finally,as if in answer to thebeseechingshouts of Tantras,
a low, ominous, rumbling sound was heard, mingled with
heart-tendinggroans. It was as if the gates of the inferno had
been opened and the ears of mortals were permitted to hear
the agonizing wails of the damned. These sounds, not unlike
the muttering of thunder, approached nearer and nearer until
theyseemed to surround or envelop thelittle band of Tantrikas.
Like an atmospheric disturbance that precedes a tropical
storm, the whole of the underground room became gradually
illuminated.The air grew brighter and brighter until it seemed
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 91
transformed into a bright, glowingred light thatshone weirdly
upon the awful scene.
At this moment a terrific roar, as of a thousand lions, fell
upon the air. The earth shook and trembled beneath these
unearthlyvibrations.
The actors in thisstrange proceedingwere as yet indiflerent,
incense was thrown upon the live coals even more profusely,
while Tantras continued his exhortation with even more ardor
than before.
The roaring and rumbling now ceased; nothing could be
heard save the voice of the daring fakir.
Presently the red light that had so vividly illuminatedthe
scene appeared to roll itself up like a scroll, continuing its
circular motion until naughtbut a huge ball of fire appeared,
in the darkness, slowlymoving at the height of a man's head
around theouter circle. Suddenly this large, revolving ball of
fire dropped to the ground, bursting with a loud report and
sending up great clouds of sulphurous ‘fumes.
This was followed by a cool draught of air that quickly
wafted away the noxious vapors.
When the dark green smoke was blown aside a new at-
rival was observed——a small, pleasant appearing man, dressed
in the robe of a red monk, stood before them. He had a long
mustache, waxed fastidiously at the ends, and whiskers artis-
ticallytrained to a point. Upon his head he wore a small, red
cap. The lower part of his body could not be seen, as it was
obscured by the rising vapors.
"Lo! I am here. For what cause hast thou disturbed me?"
he asked in a soft and pleasant voice.
"Great Upadan, O my master,” said Tantras, falling upon
92 NEDOURE
his knees and extendinghis arms irnploringly,“I have brought
him; he whom thou hast long desired.”
"Ah! good servant! I am well pleased. Let him be brought
forth," he commanded, with a strange smile.
At a sign from Tantras, one of the assistants walked over
to the corner where the Maharaja had retreated, presumably
to escape the smoke. Whispering a few words of assurance in
his ear, he gently seized his arm and brought him forward.
As theMaharaja,tremblingwithfear,came into thestrange
presence of Prince Upadan, one would have hardly recognized,
in the abject, bleary-eyed spectacle that he presented, the im-
perious ruler of Kashmir.
To his confusion, the evil one fastened his keen eyes upon
him. After regarding him for a few moments Upadan said,
with a low bow of mock humility:
“O divine Maharaja, Child of Brahma, thy presence here
gives me great pleasure. As I am unknown to thee,thoumayest
call me Upadan. First, may I ask why thou hast defied the
perils to seek me?”
"0 great Prince Upadan, I came to seek aid and power,
which rumor sayest thou alone canst give.”
“Strange, that thou seekest aid and power when thou
already hast many servants, brave warriors and confiding sub-
jects? Hast thou not also health, wealth and a comely form?
What more couldst thou desire, 0 great Maharaja?”
"Though thou hast spoken truly, 0 most powerful of
princes, yet am I unhappy. I have looked upon the fair light
of Egypt, I love‘ her with all my heart, my life and my
1 The error most of humanity has fallen into is themistake
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 93
treasure. She loves me not; yet, all would I give for the fair
Nedoure.”
"Where and when hast thou seen this beauty of whom
thou speakest?” asked Upadan, as he twirled in his fingers a
curiously wrought cane.
"Once only have I looked upon her in the flesh. It is now
four months since my visit to the Egyptian King, Amasis;
there, in the Temple of Phtah, did I meet my fate. In her
haughty pride she didst even refuse to accept a present from
the Maharaja of Kashmir. But, alas! my heart has been sad
ever since. The beautiful Nedoure has been my daily study
and nightly dream. By the mystic” art of thyservant Tantras
her image has_ been brought many times before me. But re-
flection or phantasm will no longer satisfy a monarch whose
of believinggross passion or carnality to he love. Here is an
example of this. Those who truly feel the Divine passion do
not seek to gain possession by force, but by winning the ideal
by worth.
Love awakens in the human breast by the power of at-
traction just as the sun rises in the east to give life on earth,
or at the silent command of the magnetic attraction of the
earth, that the two may give life to life. The “love” he thought
he felt in his heart, was not in his heart, but deep in his baser
element; a destroying fire devouring the Soul itself. “Love
giveth all, demandeth nothing.” The true lover brings the ob-
ject of his love the thingshe believes will please her. Profane
love brings gifts to betray,withno thoughtto uplift.
3Not “mystic” art, but the diabolical art resulting from a
reversal, misapplication or misdirection of the/a Divine Art.
Mysticism has nothing whatever to do with the direction of
such forces; only with the peaceful satisfaction of the self.
Mysticism is self-effacement.
94 NEDOURE
every wish has been a command, and whose desire is regarded
as law. So I am come, 0 great prince, hoping that thoumayest
receive me into the order that confers more than physical
power upon thy servants.”
"Thou hast spokenwell! And if thou art ready and willing
to sign the compact of blood, gladly wilt thou be received as
one of us.
“First, I require, in exchange for earthly power, absolute
secrecy; second, implicit,yea, even blind obedience, and, lastly,
thy Soul is required of thee.’ In exchange, I will grant thee
thy wish, give forty years more of life, power beyond mortal
man, and provide thee with a trusty servant who shall be ever
near thee to do thybidding. Before thou givest reply,remem-
ber, thyanswer is forever and aye.”
"I am willing,” replied the Maharaja, with feverish
anxiety.
"Forever and aye!” came the response from the dark
brothers who had hitherto remained silent.
Upadan then plunged his staff into the earth so that it
stood erect in front of the Maharaja. It appeared to possess
an afiinityfor the sulphurous fumes, as theygathered about its
base and rose around it in such a manner that the staff was
soon obscured. Presently,through the vapors, could be seen
3Bib1ica1ly,“The Soul that sinneth it shall die.” This Law
is here illustrated. He who is willing to degrade that within
him, which, under proper conditions, would become the Christ,
thereby destroys his Soul. More correctly, he destroys the per-
sonality—his personal self—the vehicle into whose care the
Divine Law placed a Soul for the gaining of experience, and
thebecomingof a Son of the Light.
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 95
a horrid, moving head, that began to inflate until it looked
like a many-colored bag! All eyes were now directed to this
swaying, bag-like object, and as its tongue began to protrude,
and its eyes glisten, it was easy to recognize in it the dread
hooded cobra.‘
Upadan, who had heretofore maintained a suave manner
and pleasantvoice, now assumed a stern expression thatwould
have struck terror to an ordinary mortal, but as the Maharaja’s
eyes were curiously bent upon the menacing serpent he took
no notice of the former's change of appearance. Intoxicated
as he was with selfish anticipation, and at the ease with which
he had been received into the ranks of the Tantrikas, he was
hardly prepared for the quick, sharp command uttered a mo-
ment later by Upadan, as he pointed unmistakably toward the
cobra.
"Step forward! and clasp thou the brother,at once. Delay
not a moment.”
Though somewhat surprised at the change of tone, Kash-
mir’s proud ruler advanced,withbloodless lips and outstretched
arms, toward the spotted monster. As his arms were about to
close around the reptile, such music as he had never before
4 From time immemorial the serpent, unless upraised upon
the “cross,” has been the symbol of carnality, of debasement,
betrayal, of leading man into the realm of the damned. In
various periods of history—like those of Nineveh, Babylonia,
Sodom—entire nations were destroyed by this degeneracy. Such
a period, with degenerates everywhere in high places and ac-
cepted by respectables-is upon us once more; a period with
decadent countries legalizing homosexuality. Once this most
vicious of all “creature” has man in his toils thereis little chance
of escape.
96 NEDOURE
heard burst forth in enchanting strains, and lo! behold! instead
of thehorriblecobra, he held in his arms thebeautifulNedoure.
When the Maharaja next realized consciousness he was
standing alone in the little apartment that connected by the
narrow stairway with his bed-chamber. Tantras, gloomy and
silent as ever, was standing beside him.
As he looked around in a confused manner, occasionally
rubbing his eyes and placing his hands to his head, a bright
light of intelligence lit up his features as he began to recall
the events of the night. Presently a smile of anticipation
appeared upon his lips.
“O Tantras, thou hast this night made for thyself an
eternal friend in the ruler of Kashmir.”
"And, I may hope, a brother as well, 0 mighty Ma-
haraja.”
"Of a verity, did the prince promise, by the aid of his
power, to secure for me the lovely Nedoure?"
"Silence,my master,” said Tantras,holding aloft a warning
finger. "If thouwouldst have success thoumust speak of naught
thou hast seen and heard. Prince Upadan will call upon thee,
and bids his servant give to the Maharaja this list of time."
The Maharaja took from thehand of Tantras a smallpiece
of parchment upon which was written in bold characters the
following:
“To THE ROYAL BROTHER or THE LEFT: Prince Upadan
will call at thybedside, for converse, on Moonday,at the third
hour of night; Mars~day, fourth hour of night; on the day of
Mercury at the fifthhour. Observe these times, which I hope
will suit thyroyal pleasure, and I will not fail thee.
UPADAN."
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 97
The two then took leave of each other, the Maharaja
ascending to his princely quarters, and the other returning to
the cavern.
Three days later, in pursuance of their scheme to secure
Nedoure, Priestess of the Magi, Tantras, with two attendants,
set forth upon a journey to Egypt.
-NEDOURB» .
CHAPTERTEN
Results of EvilPassions
Slowly the platform upon which I stood continued to
descend. Glancingaround, my eyes fell upon the four barren
walls of the chute. Roughly hewn white stone inclosed me
upon all sides.
For a short while the reflected light from above made it
possible for me to see quite plainly,but as I was slowly and
noiselessly borne downward, I soon found myself in stygian
darkness.
Looking upward through the open top of the unique ele-
vator, nothingcould be seen but inky darkness, as a covering
had evidently been placed over the aperture through which I
had sank from view of the brotherhood.
Continuing downward I became aware of a strange per-
fume thatwas beginningto pervade the air. At first the effect
was stimulating. I laughedaloud as fantastic shapes, conjured
by my exalted imagination,began to fillthe air around me.
This ecstatic sensation endured but a moment, however, as
my knees beganto grow weak and tremblinglysmote together.
Then, too, the mental creations around me began to change
from smiling, winged seraphs to horrid, threatening images
of beasts.
The fumes were becomingstronger, and my faculties were
surely yielding to their depressing effects. My body became
numb, and my. ears were filledwith a roaring, ringing sound,
as if standing near a great, roaring cataract.
Suddenly all became indistinct,consciousness was lost, and
100 NEDOURE
I sank, limp and helpless, to the floor of the platform upon
which I stood.
Presently the elevator came to a standstill; the change
from motion to quiet partially aroused me. I tried to open my
eyes but could not; I sought to move my limbs but they re-
sponded not.
Thus I lay in a dreamy state of semi—consciousness. While
resting thus, upon the floor of some one of the underground
apartments of the temple, a new horror suddenly appeared-
whether a dream or nightmare my mind is not certain, even
to thisday. A cold, clammy creature slowlyencircled my neck!
I tried to scream and raise my hand but no sound came forth
nor muscle responded to my semi-endormed will. In fact, it
were better so, as had I been in possession of full sensibilityto
pain and emotion, my blood might have congealed in my veins.
As it was, under thestupefying efiects of thefumes, terror gave
place to listless, dreamy indifference.
But the horrible serpent about my neck did not long re-
main inactive, as it began to tighten its coils around my un-
protected throat, as if intent upon crushing out my life, and
then, as if cognizantof my helpless state, it would relax—like
the confident cat plays with a helpless mouse.
Althoughthe facultiesof sight and motion were suspended,
the sense of hearing was keenly alert, being the last to yield
to the paralyzing fumes.
Whilelyingthus,at themercy of a cruel reptile for which
I had felt a special antipathyall my life, the sound of voices
reached me, as if from afar. I caught the words:
"Dost thou think the neophyte will travel the road with
safety?”
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 101
“Aye! of a verity, he will,” came the reply, "I have seen,
as thou knowest, many candidates, but never a better physical
form; and tumor sayest that even Pheros was often surprised
at his strengthof Will and developmentof spirit.”
I then felt myself raised, by tender hands, and conveyed a
short distance, when I was deposited upon a soft and com-
fortable bed.
How long I lay thusis not known to me as I at once lapsed
into a state of unconscious sleep.
AfterawhileI awoke to find myself in a strange apartment.
A hasty glance assured me that it was the laboratory of an
alchemist. However, I was not permitted to examine it closely,
as my eyes were almost immediately attracted to the three
serious looking Magi who surrounded my couch——one at my
feet and one on either side.
They regarded me with a calm scrutiny for a few seconds,
when the suffocating pressure of the serpent attracted my
attention, as if to impress upon me the fact that it was,yet
with me.
I sought in vain to clutch the creature, and finding my
limbs were motionless, tried to cry out, but without effect.
“As thou hast, no doubt, realized,0 Neophyte, thou art at
present unable to aid thyself,"said the majestic personage at
my right, as he fastened upon me his dark benevolenteyes.
I endeavored to reply, but still found myself unable to
utter a word.
At this moment the terrible thingaround my throatbegan
to tighten his coils so fiercely thatall grew dark before me, so
thatI could no longer see theMagus and thatbuzzing,ringing
sound which precedes unconsciousness began to return. Just
102 NEDOURE
as I thoughtthe end was near, the old Magus upon my right
calmly continued:
“That which thou thinkesta serpent is but the manifesta-
tion of thine own passions and desires.’ It remains for thee to
free thyselfbypurificationof thineinner self.”
Yet while this self-possessed brother talked in his low,
harmonious voice, thecreature from theplaneof illusion again
made a most determined effort to choke me. As physical effort
was useless, I concentrated mentally upon Nedoure and re-
quested her to aid me in banishing the icy monster, but alas!
the cold bands of the creature only inclosed my throat with a
firmer clasp.
It was with dismay that I observed the result of this, for
my regard for the High Priestess was surely above the plane
of mere passion and desire.
1At all times and throughout every
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 103
The brotheron the right appeared to divine the nature of
what was passing in my mind as, with a significant glance to-
ward his two companions, he addressed me in slow, measured
tones, whilea faint smileof compassion lit up his face:
“Neophyte, thou art, for the time, helpless. At least, thou
art not strong enough to free thyself from the evils of thine
own creation. In thy present negative state thou art at the
mercy of thosedestructive vibrationswhich first emanated from
thine own untrained mind. Learn, then, that vibration is a
motion to and fro in a medium, always proceeding from a
cause.’ Thus each vibration must, at some time, return to its
startingpoint.’ Therefore, as eachimpulse tends to construction
or destruction, to life or to death, thou seest how important it
is for the true Magus to understand vibration.”
At this point he must have noted the convulsive shudder
which shook my frame, as the serpent again tightened his coils
about my throat, but he did not appear to observe it. Contin-
uing in his mild voice he said:
‘Thisis theuniversal Law of “actionand reaction,”of “cause
and effect." The Nazarene taughtit in themost simplelanguage:
“As ye sow so shall ye reap.” Every thought, desire and act
produces a vibration; these vibrations are sent out into the
ether automatically,and “like bread cast upon the waters,”
return after many days.
So long as there are carnal, evil, undesirable thoughts and
desires, they create vibrations; these vibrations leave, but re-
turn, binding the creator as with chains of iron. Exalting
thoughts and desires loosen these chains and ultimately free
the victim. This is true equally of every human creature. No
one can escape the action of the law, though it is felt less se-
verely by theprofane-thenon-seeker; he being less conscious.
104 NEDOURE
“We should not send forth thatwhich may rebound to the
injury or destruction of the first active cause. Evil is but the
result of ignorance, for how can 4 man he wise and generate
those force: which will dertroy him?“
Pausinga moment he took my hands in bothhis own while
his eyes were still directed toward mine. At the moment he
seized my hands the astral entity fled. Like a flash it vanished,
as evil will always vanish in the presence of righteousness.
Continuing he said:
“Yet, in thy pitiable state, thou hast found friends, 0
Neophyte, even among strangers. But those strangers who
extended aid to you were of the Brotherhood. So forget not
this event in thy future life; remember the time when thou
wert at the mercy of destructive forces, save for the aid of the
Brothers. Bear also in mind, 0 Neophyte, that when thou
mayest be seemingly alone, a brother will be ready to extend
the hand of fellowship. So, when thou hast received the signs
and grip of thePastophoris,when thouhast been fully initiated
into the wisdom of thedegree, turn not a deaf ear to a brother
who calls upon theefor aid. Thyduty is first to thegreat Father,
next to the Brotherhood of the Magi, and third, to the great
brotherhood of humanity.“
3 This is not altogethera fact. One may he possessed of the
knowledge but too weak to resist the temptation of wanting
thatwhich he has not yet earned. Onlyexperienceand attendant
suffering will graduallyawaken man to the futilityof attempt-
ing to evade the Law or to benefit without effort.
‘Times change, conditions change, hence the application
of the Law also changes. In modern times and under the Laws
of a New Age, this demands: Duty,reverence, adoration to God,
first. Respect, obedienceand reverance to parents, second. Duty
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 105
At this he made a sign to his two companions who had,
during his admonition, stood silent and motionless. They at
once drew closer around me, waving their arms in an im-
pressive manner, all thewhilekeeping their eyes riveted upon
mine, with such an intensity thatI found myself powerless to
longer withstand their gaze. At this point my eyelids became
heavy and slowly closed.
As I was about to pass into the trance or magnetic sleep,
the threevoices united in one harmonious chorus and sang out,
"Obedienceis the law of the three worlds.” Cool streams of
magnetic fluid could be felt coursing down my face and body
as a feeling of bliss stole over me, and I knew no more.
to family,third. Duty to country, fourth, except in emergency
when duty to country may become second, but ever under the
Laws of theDivine, first. Obedienceto the Divine Law is all-in-
clusive and embraces all Laws. The dictates of men are all too
frequentlycommands to evade God’s Laws for someone’s selfish
benefit,and usuallybecauseof a desire for power temporal, and
not Spiritual, in its nature; hence it becomes a personal illusion.
ms
CHAPTERELEVEN
The Temple
Afterwhat seemed an age of pleasant dreams, if such they
were, I awoke, but with such a strange feeling of lightness.
Such a thrillof freedom pervaded my being as I had never
known before. I felt an almost irresistible impulse to soar away
heavenward. Yielding to the desire I attempted to rise, but
found myself bound by a silvery,’ thread-likeappendage. But
to what was it attached? Turning,to find its source, imagine
my surprise as I beheld, extended beforeme on the couch, my
own physical body. Why this transformation? Had I crossed
the valley of death? No; this could not be death, it was a
change from restricted life to Spiritual freedom. My mind was
clear and active and I felt an exhilaration that was simply
divine. I stood for a moment, ponderingupon deluded human-
ity, who mistczhe the gross physicalhody for the real man. All
through life I have been thankful for that experience, which
taught me that all upon the physical plane is but delusion.
The real man, the ego, is seldom seen, and the physical body
is but a temporary tenement.
Strange to say, I could see nothing else in the room save
my own body, to which I was attached. As it was impossible
to sever theconnection, I had nothingto do but remain quietly
1 An ancient Occult term. Body and Soul are bound together
by a thread, and though the Soul may have far vision and see
into the near or distant future, it can never during life leave
the body. If it did, the silvery cord would be severed as is the
cord between mother and child, separating them, and death
would be the result.
PRIBSTESS OF THE MAGI 109
remaining one in yellow. The altar consisted of a long table
of elegantly polished cedar. In the center, spread our, face
downward, was a snow-white, undressed kid’s skin.
Upon the center of the kid's skin was a thin slab of
smoothlypolished marble, upon which, graven in pure gold,
could beseen themost potent of all talismans—thefive-pointed
star of pentagram.‘
At each corner of the table were placedthe representations
of the Word—Yod-He-Vau-He. Yod, the symbol of light, was
represented by a lamp so constructed as to project a powerful
ray of whitest light. At the same end of the table, on the
opposite corner, stood the vessel for perfumes. At the other
end of the table could be seen the other two emblems of the
Word—Sa1t and Water.
Fastened upon a frameof gold, stood a great magic mirror,
close beside the pot of perfumes, so arranged that it reflected
the rising smoke from the incense, through which the light
from the lamp streamed in spectacular beauty. As I began to
move noiselessly around the room, it soon became apparent
that I was invisible to the engrossed brothers. Presently I
I'\Aal'A flan not-na A1-‘rune .-.11..-I ainnpd To urns an-.¢.a.;J J-.-....
108 NEDOURE
beside the corporeal, pondering upon the constitution of man.
Presentlythe sound of voices reached me. A moment later
the dim outlines of threefigures could be seen. The Magus who
had previously addressed me was now repeating the awful
rituals of invocation,whiletheother two were casting perfumes
into an earthen jar. As the fumes continued to rise my sur-
roundings became more and more distinct.
Upon one side of the spacious chamber lay my own body
upon a richly trimmed couch. The room was illuminated by
seven massive lamps, which cast a soft radiance over the
smoothlypolished floorof granite slabs. The walls were almost
hidden by rich Indian tapestry. Everywhere the colors of red,
lemon and yellow predominated. These, I afterward learned,
were in harmony with my spiritual colors.”
But the most interesting of all was the superb altar of in-
vocation,” which stood in the center of the room, and around
which thethreeMagi were performing theirmystical rites. One
was dressed in a robe of bright red, the other in lemon, the
2 The colors of the vibrations of the then state or degree
of the development Hari had attained.
Although well advanced in his studies and development
and ready to undergo the ordeals at that period, it was only
then that he learned the meaning of the colors and the signif-
cance of them as they concerned him.
“The Magean Invocation as described is still part of the
ritual of the inner circle. However, it has partially lost its
potent influence in the fact thatNeophytes of the present day
do not possess the faith of Neophytes at the period when their
study and training lasted as many as twenty-one years and
all of theirtime, not merely a small part of it, as at thepresent
time. The methodof traininghad to be changed during thepass-
ing centuries due to changing conditions of life.
110 NEDOURE
his two assistants. The three were peering intently into the
dark concave surface of the mirror.
As I appeared before the mirror, I could plainly see the
reflectionof my spiritual self thelight therein,notwithstanding
it was at times obscured by thelight curls of ascendingsmoke.
That the three Magi also saw what the mirror gave forth
was apparent by the expression of satisfaction which lit up
theirfeatures. Theydrew nearer, carefullyinspected the image‘
and, a moment later, I was dismissed and ordered to return
again to my physicalbody.‘ This command I was loth to obey
as, having once tasted the freedom of a liberated bird, it was
extremely unpleasant to return to the cage. The unrestrained
life of the astral was pleasing to me as I seemed to be in that
realm of ideality for which I had often longed.
Yet as the commands were repeated with an intensity
which shook my body, there was no alternative but to obey.
Thus, I slowly turned toward my physical. But what did I
see? It was as if all thehorrors of creation had been liberated
‘This does not imply that during this experience the Soul
Lall than l'|l\l‘l! AF was noun:-at‘ ‘warn 3! ‘nut that do: Gilt"! In-annn
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 103
The brotheron the right appeared to divine the nature of
what was passing in my mind as, with a significant glance to-
ward his two companions, he addressed me in slow, measured
tones, whilea faint smileof compassion lit up his face:
"Neophyte, thou art, for the time, helpless. At least, thou
art not strong enough to free thyself from the evils of thine
own creation. In thy present negative state thou art at the
mercy of thosedestructive vibrationswhich first emanated from
thine own untrained mind. Learn, then, that vibration is a
motion to and fro in a medium, always proceeding from a
cause.” Thus each vibration must, at some time, return to its
startingpoint.” Therefore,as eachimpulse tends to construction
or destruction, to life or to death, thou seest how important it
is for thetrue Magus to understand vibration.”
At this point he must have noted the convulsive shudder
which shook my frame, as the serpent again tightened his coils
about my throat, but he did not appear to observe it. Contin-
uing in his mild voice he said:
3Thisis theuniversal Law of “actionand reaction,”of “cause
and effect.” The Nazarene taughtit in themost simplelanguage:
"As ye sow so shall ye reap.” Every thought, desire and act
produces a vibration; these vibrations are sent out into the
ether automatically,and “like bread cast upon the waters,”
return after many days.
So long as there are carnal, evil, undesirable thoughts and
desires, they create vibrations; these vibrations leave, but re-
turn, binding the creator as with chains of iron. Exalting
thoughts and desires loosen these chains and ultimately free
the victim. This is true equally of every human creature. No
one can escape the action of the law, though it is felt less se-
verely by theprofane—thenon-seeker; he beingless conscious.
104 NEDOURE
“We should not send forth thatwhich may rebound to the
injury or destruction of the first active cause. Evil is but the
result of ignorance, for how can a man be wise and generate
tbore force: which will destroy /Jim?”‘
Pausinga moment he took my hands in bothhis own while
his eyes were still directed toward mine. At the moment he
seized my hands the astral entity fled. Like a flash it vanished,
as evil will always vanish in the presence of righteousness.
Continuing he said:
"Yet, in thy pitiable state, thou hast found friends, 0
Neophyte, even among strangers. But those strangers who
extended aid to you were of the Brotherhood. So forget not
this event in thy future life; remember the time when thou
wert at the mercy of destructive forces, save for the aid of the
Brothers. Bear also in mind, 0 Neophyte, that when thou
mayest be seemingly alone, a brother will be ready to extend
the hand of fellowship. So, when thou hast received the signs
and grip of thePastophoris,when thouhast been fully initiated
into thewisdom of thedegree, turn not a deaf ear to a brother
who calls upon theefor aid. Thyduty is first to thegreat Father,
next to the Brotherhood of the Magi, and third, to the great
brotherhood of humanity.“
3 This is not altogethera fact. One may he possessed of the
knowledge but too weak to resist the temptation of wanting
thatwhich he has not yet earned. Onlyexperienceand attendant
suffering will graduallyawaken man to the futilityof attempt-
ing to evade the Law or to benefit without effort.
‘Times change, conditions change, hence the application
of the Law also changes. In modern times and under the Laws
of a New Age, thisdemands: Duty,reverence, adoration to God,
first. Respect, obedienceand reverance to parents, second. Duty
PRIBSTESS OF THE MAGI 105
At this he made a sign to his two companions who had,
during his admonition, stood silent and motionless. They at
once drew closer around me, waving their arms in an im-
pressive manner, all thewhilekeeping their eyes riveted upon
mine, with such an intensity that I found myself powerless to
longer withstand their gaze. At this point my eyelids became
heavy and slowly closed.
As I was about to pass into the trance or magnetic sleep,
the threevoices united in one harmonious chorus and sang out,
"Obedienceis the law of the three worlds.” Cool streams of
magnetic fluid could be felt coursing down my face and body
as a feeling of bliss stole over me, and I knew no more.
to family,third. Duty to country, fourth, except in emergency
when duty to country may become second, but ever under the
Laws of theDivine, first. Obedienceto the Divine Law is all-in-
clusive and embraces all Laws. The dictates of men are all too
frequentlycommands to evade God's Laws for sorneone’s selfish
benefit,and usuallybecauseof a desire for power temporal, and
not Spiritual, in its nature; hence it becomes a personal illusion.
105 NEUOURE
PRIBSTESS OF THE MAGI 109
remaining one in yellow. The altar consisted of a long table
of elegantly polished cedar. In the center, spread out, face
downward, was a snow-white, undressed kid's skin.
Upon the center of the kid's skin was a thin slab of
smoothlypolished marble, upon which, graven in pure gold,
could beseen themost potent of all talismans—thefive-pointed
star of pentagram.‘
At each corner of the table were placed the representations
of the Word—Yod-He-Vau-He. Yod, the symbol of light, was
represented by a lamp so constructed as to project a powerful
ray of whitest light. At the same end of the table, on the
opposite corner, stood the vessel for perfumes. At the other
end of the table could be seen the other two emblems of the
Word—Salt and Water.
Fastened upon a frame of gold, stood a great magic mirror,
close beside the pot of perfumes, so arranged that it reflected
the rising smoke from the incense, through which the light
from the lamp streamed in spectacular beauty. As I began to
move noiselessly around the room, it soon became apparent
that I was invisible to the engrossed brothers. Presently I
heard the name Athos, called aloud. It was repeated three
times, followed by the stern command that I appear before
the magic mirror, which stood near the altar of invocations.
Drawn by an impulse which was irresistible, I mechanically
approached the mirror.
The brother who had previously addressed me, and who
was now dressed in the robe of yellow, stood directly in front
of themirror, and a short distance to thefront, near him, stood
‘Refer to the Chapter The Pentagram, Star of Light, in
the forepart of the present volume.
110 NEDOURE
his two assistants. The three were peering intently into the
dark concave surface of the mirror.
As I appeared before the mirror, I could plainly see the
reflectionof my spiritual self the light therein,notwithstanding
it was at times obscured by thelight curls of ascending smoke.
That the three Magi also saw what the mirror gave forth
was apparent by the expression of satisfaction which lit up
theirfeatures. Theydrew nearer, carefullyinspected the image“
and, a moment later, I was dismissed and ordered to return
again to my physicalbody.‘ This command I was loth to obey
as, having once tasted the freedom of a liberated bird, it was
extremely unpleasant to return to the cage. The unrestrained
life of the astral was pleasing to me as I seemed to be in that
realm of ideality for which I had often longed.
Yet as the commands were repeated with an intensity
which shook my body, there was no alternative but to obey.
Thus, I slowly turned toward my physical. But what did I
see? It was as if all the horrors of creation had been liberated
‘This does not imply that during this experience the Soul
left the body or was severed from it, but that in such trance
the Soul could stand separate from the body and not only view
the body, but also become fully conscious of the many evils
and weaknesses of thebody. This can be illustratedby a simple
example: We do this to a degree when we gaze into a mirror
and see ourselves reflected therein. Our “Shadow,” but only of
thephysicalself, is there.
In exactly the same manner, the Soul in a trance, or,’ as
in our days, by means of the “shiel ”
can view the Spiritual
self. The command of the old philosophers: “Man, know thy-
self,” had this in mind. We cannot actually know ourselves
unless and until we see ourselves—with all our weaknesses—as
we actuallyare withinour inmost self.
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 111
in a body.“ I found myself surrounded by horrid, grinning
faces; heads floated about me without bodies; enormous bats
and fierce tigers glaredat me.
There stood, also, the formidable Astaroth,with the head
of a bull, motionless but threatening. There, also, was to be
seen the great horror of horrors, which my pen even now
refuses to describe,Nahash, the dragon of the threshold.
Monsters’ with forms such as have never been seen by
3 As a fact, all the evils of creation are a part of our being
because the ego that is our real self has passed through, or
taken on, these evils, and they remain a part of the self until
such time as they have been transmuted by desire and Will,
and the gross self has become exalted.
This is a step by step process and fortunately for the
modern Neophyte, proceeding as he does in gradual degrees
of development, he is not compelled to witness these horrors
unless he is foolish enough to force himself into a realm of ex-
perience for which he has not prepared himself, and where
he has no right to be.
The great Master, the Nazarene, taught and trained in
Egypt and among the Essenes—the Ancient School—was very
familiarwith this,hence his precepts relative to trying to “take
the kingdom of heaven by storm,” i.e., entering into, or open»
ing up, the inner secret self before being properly prepared.
"The “dragon,” the “monster,” and the “Terror” are one
and the same and is the dread and paralyzing “fear” that is
aroused or awakened in thosewho have failedto attain a proper
concept of God, their Spiritual self and the Low, but proceed
blindlyand without guidance and unprepared.
Under present conditions and the system of training fol-
lowed for many centuries, these experiences are all sidestepped
by the Neophyte who follows instructions and is faithful in his
practice.
112 NEDOURE
mortals—imperfect, hideous creatures-gatheredabout me on
all sides. Neither the furnishings of the room not any of its
occupants could now be seen, but lying motionless amid these
dreaded beings could be seen my physical body, which I was
now anxious to reach. What had a few moments previous
appeared like an unwelcome prison, was now regarded as a
haven of safety, and my greatest desire was now to enter its
protecting domain. But betweenmy Spiritual and physicalcould
be seen the most terrible and ferocious of the evil emanations.
Their number was legion, and far off on the outer circle of
these phantoms could be discerned myriads of the invisible
races.
All were evidently attracted by the powerful invocations
in conjunction with the iron will of a trained operator. That
the disturbance had awakened their anger was also to be seen.
Surrounded thus by all the terrors of the il1usionary—self-
created world, I felt perfectly safe as they were powerless to
harm me so longas I yielded not to fear. In thismoment of trial
I recalled the wholesome advice and teaching of Pheros, and
rememberedalso thewords of encouragementwhispered by the
lovelyNedoure.
Then, with a supreme effort of the Wfll, I commanded
them to depart, throwinginto the mental effort all the con-
centrated nerve energy of which I was capable.
Theyyieldedbut slowly,however, and as I pressed forward
toward my physical they turned and began to close in around
me with their long exposed teeth and monstrous claws. This
shook my courage as it led me to infer thatan element of fear
was creeping into my nature.
Yet I felt confident of the protection of the brotherhood,
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 113
and also of esoteric assistance from the fair Nedoure, as I had
a strong impression thatshe could not have attained her exalted
position unless she had long since developed a strong and
determined Wfll. The memory of her kindlyglance of interest
made me feel that she would not now forsake me.
For some reason I also felt impressed that the subtile per-
fumes and mighty invocations had attracted more of the astral
denizens thanusual.
Then, with the thoughtof God, of the Magi, and of Ne-
doure, and withall thepower and intensity thatI could master,
I again commanded these phantom forms to leave me. But
even as I did so, whilestaringinto their relentless eyes, a faint
shadow of doubt’ arose in my mind as to its eficiency,which
would have been fatal to me had not an unexpected event
occurred.
These monstrous astral entities, being perfectly en rapport
3Doubt is a destroyer. It causes every force to become inert.
Well did the Nazarene say in substance that those with even a
little faithwould be able to move mountains.
Faith in conjunction with desire, induces effort. Effort is
action. Action brings about a reaction, and the reaction is in
harmony with the action. By action with its reaction, man be-
comes thatwhich he truly desires.
Those possessed of little faith,but withgreat desire, will be
able to gradually build up their faith by persistently making
effort in harmony with their desire.
This knowledge, based on an Absolute Law should become
firmlyimpressed upon theconsciousness, so thatit will becomea
part of the Neophyte’s mental and Spiritual self; as well as the
fact that with clear intent of the purpose in mind there is no-
thingto fear except fear itself. Fear is the demon, the terror of
the Threshold.
1 14 NEDOURE
witheverythingon theirplane—likebirds of the air, thatsense
a comingstorm; or fish, thatknow thedirection to quietwaters,
suitable for spawn—<:ould easilysense the vibrations of doubt
which I tried so hard to conceal. At first they retreated, as
before, while I continued to draw nearer my physical.
A short distance only now intervened.
But suddenly the dark, towering object which I most
dreaded, whose many arms and legs extended in all directions,
forced itself between me and the body I so longed to reach,
with a great irregularlyformed head from which glittered and
sparkledwithundyinghatred three great luminous eyes, which
seemed to transfix me. As this repulsive astra, cyclops barred
the passage and began to wave its long tentacle-like limbs
around me, I felt that the end had come.
Suddenly, with a harsh, grating sound, that remotely re-
sembled a human voice, the following words were slowly
uttered:
“Move not! doomed mortal who hast dared to enter the
forbidden realm. Nahash, the guardian of the threshold, com-
mands!”
As thesewords were uttered, withthethreegreat malignant
eyes bentupon me, I becameas one paralyzed. My brain began
to whirl and, with the shrieks of these awful creatures about
me which pierced me with unuttetable horror, I tottered as
if to fall.
CHAPTERTWELVE
The Will. The Sparkof Divinity
At this perilous moment, when it seemed almost certain
destruction to advance to regain possession of my physical
body,’ confronted as I was by Nahash, the dreaded demon of
the threshold,the most beautifulas well as the most welcome
sound of all my life came in clear, ringing tones:
“Be strong, Althos! No harm can come to thee-Agla
commands!”
These words of encouragement, coming at the moment
when hope was all but abandoned, revived me like water to
the lips of a wounded soldier. I could feel my strengthreturn-
ing as I wonderinglyopened my eyes, when, to my relief, I
found the horde of horrible phantoms had fled. Nothing re-
mained to show a trace of them save a dark cloud which was
rapidlydisappearingover the vast expanse of themiddle plane.
Moving toward me in stately grandeur, borne upon the
air, was a beingof indescribable loveliness. As he approached,
1A readily misunderstood statement that might indicate
that the Soul can leave the body. In all trance conditions it is
sometimes extremely difficult for the Spiritual consciousness
to return to physical consciousness, thus a struggle ensues even
though the Spiritual self actuallydesires to return into its nor-
mal sphere. It is for this reason that trance should never be
induced by an outside operator unless that operator is thor-
oughly conversant with every phase of hypnotism, the inducing
of physicalsleep and be of thehighest moral character. In self-
induced trance the return to physicalconsciousness is frequently
even more difficult than when the subject is under the control
of theoperator.
116 NEDOURE
his clear cut features could be seen, illuminated with large,
brilliantblue eyes, surmounted by a long, flowing dark beard,
and locks of hair whose raven blackness contrasted with his
spotless white robe. His face was radiant like a spirit of fire;
love and kindness beamed in every lineament.
The stately bearingof this noble beingshowed the power
and authoritywhich could emanate from the Divinity alone.
As he noiselessly floated toward me, holding out both
hands,he said:
"Brother,thyheart is pure, but thyWill is not strong. Had
thy Will”been trained to the fullest my assistance would not
have been required. I would have come to you ere this, but
thou hast that in thynature, even now, which must be over-
come if thou would ascend to the highest. Hearken well,
brother,to thingswhich are said to thee, for aside from the aid
of the moment, I am to be henceforth thy Guru or Spiritual
instructor.
As I now realized that the threateningdangers were past,
the reaction from so great a mental strain began to manifest
itself. I could make no reply,but stood mutely and imploringly,
regarding this luminous being. Continuing, he said, with a
deprecating wave of the hand:
"No; thankme not. I was drawn to thee by the Will of
‘In the training of a Magi the Will is of first and utmost
importance; even more so than the developmentof the Spiritual
self. It is herein that the becomingof a Magi differs so greatly
from that of developing into a PhilosophicInitiate. the latter
dependingalmost whollyon Spiritualdevelopment; the awaken-
ing of the Inner Light—Dim'ne Spark—theChristos, ratherthan
on the Will.
PRIESTBSS OF THE MAGI 117
one who bears for thee a kindly interest. It was thy future
preceptress, Nedoure.”
At the mention of her name his face becamegrave and his
expression thoughtful. He paused a moment, then, with a
graceful wave of the hand toward my physical body, he con-
tinued:
“Tarry not longer here, my brother, but enter thou into
thy tabernacleof flesh and continue thy journey toward the
Unity.”
Then, as his face lit up with a smileof ineffable brotherly
love, he said:
"Dear brother, as thou hast before heard, I am to be thy
Guru, thoushalt henceforthknow me by the name of Watlan.
Keep thy Soul ever free from aught but Spiritual love and I
will be ever ready to aid thee. But forget not, brother,thatif
perchance thoushouldst fall into thematerial plane, and ignore
the high goal for which thou art now striving, I shall be
powerless to aid thee. When thou requirest my advice and as-
sistance, meditate in silence upon the Creator, and mentally
call the name of Watlan. Perchance thou mayest not see me
with thyphysical eyes, not hear my voice with thine ears, but
answers to thyqueries willbeplainlyimpressed upon thyinner
spirit.”
As he paused, looking kindly toward me, I tried to speak
and found, to my delight, thatI had again come into possession
of the power of speech.
‘'0, great master,” said I, "tell me more of yourself; from
whence thou comest and whitherthouwiltreturn? My life has
thus far been spent in trying to solve the mysteries of the
unknown.”
118 NEDOURE
"When thou wouldst know the mystery of life and death,
look upon the circle—the line without beginningand without
end. Make upon the circle two points of division—the upper
and the lower—the positive and the negative. Everythingin
Nature is represented by the circle. From the ultimate atom
to the great Universe this law holds good. Thus the Universe
may be synthetized by a great circular current, in which the
flow is necessarilyinverse in the two opposing arcs. From the
positive pole to the negative pole the current descends——this
is Involution, or the descent of the Spirit into Matter. From
the negative pole to the positive pole the current re-ascends—
this is Evolution, or the spiritualizationof matter. Thus for the
formation of a human being or of a world the laws are
analogous.
“Man is now on his upward journey, in the ascending arc,
far from the negative pole, since he is at the head of the three
kingdoms of the terrestrial world. He thus belongs to the
visible world of the Universe. He also occupies a prominent
placein the intellectual world; but his doubts, errors and de-
ficienciesin real knowledge,show that he is not the master in
this sphere as he is in the inferior world. In regard to the
divine world, man conceives it and yearns for it, but if he
attain it, it will be by faithrather than by science."
After this explanadonhe stood silentlycontemplatingme.
“But tell me, O learned Guru,” I said, "when man has
passed that change known as death, does he yet live? And, if
so, in what form?"
In slow, measured accents he replied:
“Man dilfersfrom the lower. forms of the animal kingdom
by possessing a Soul. Everythingin the Universe is ‘in motion,
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 119
always tending to a higher and more perfected state. The law
of evolution embracesthe mineral, vegetable and animal king-
doms. In the former the metals are formed from the crude
elements by circulation of the life principle. Continuing to
obey this great law they undergo still further changes. Where
lead could be found a few thousand years ago, gold may be
found now. So it is also in the vegetable kingdom as well as
the animal kingdom. Every element or being must produce
an elementor beingsuperior to itself. As man is the synthetical
representation of perfection in the animal kingdom he must
produce a being superior to the visible man. Thus the seed or
germ of an immortal Soul has been given him by the Creator.
It is his duty to bring forth from this Spark of Divinity’ a
perfected beingsuitable to endure throughtheeternal cycles of
progression. If the Soul is not developed in one life, then
many lives may be necessary. Upon the earth, at all times, can
be found unfortunate and vicious men who have been sep-
arated from their soul.”
“Do you mean to say, 0 exalted one, that a man may lose
his Soul during earthly life?"
“Of that thou mayest rest assured, my brother. In early
life, when the beingis pure, the Soul tries to impress upon the
individual the difference between the right and wrong. This is
realized as the promptings of conscience. When the first evil
deed is committed, the inexperiencedevil-doer feels uncomfort-
able on account of conscience. As he continues to follow the
path of vice the Soul ceases to struggle with him; and if he
3In the newer Western interpretation of the Arcane and
Spiritual science the Soul is named the Divine Spark to har-
monize with the Soul Science of the new age.
120 NEDOURE
pursues still further the downward path,‘ the Soul may, and
often does, take its flight.”
“The man without a Soul could not have eternal life?” I
asked.
"No, my dear brother,”said the Guru. “He lives and dies
as the lower animals, with no higher ambition than the satis-
faction of his animal passions.‘ He still possesses what is
called the animal soul, but is forever separated from the spark
of divinity which permits man to ascend among the Gods.
Thou wilst comprehend my reference to theanimal soul when
thou hast been instructed concerning the seven principles of
man. But, brother,I will see thee anon; thou must return to
the physical plane, and I to my duties elsewhere. So, for the
time, farewell!” saying which he glided away, backward, with
his hand extended toward me in theform of a benediction,and
a bright smileupon his countenance.
Whilewatching thedeparture of thisbeautifulbeingI felt
irresistibly drawn toward my physical, which lay motionless
beforeme. Claspingmy arms around it, I knew no more until
I was awakened to find theMagi bendinganxiously over me.
4 The reason why one evil leads to another,with the down-
ward pathso easy to follow, and retreat so difficult, is because
it requires a strong desire and great effort of the Will to re-
enter the Path toward Spiritual rebirth.
5This has reference to the personal self. Mud: in Occult
literature falsely indicates thattheSoul itself, the Divine Spark,
is destroyed by continued evil acts. The Biblical statement:
“The Soul that sinneth it shall die," is a mistranslation. It is
not the Divine Spark that dies or is destroyed, but the person
into whose possession it is given, who destroys himself by his
evils, releasing the Soul to its freedom.
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 121
The one who had previouslyaddressed me said, as he made
downward passes in front of my face:
“Rest quietly,O Neophyte. Fear not; no harm can come
to thee.”
As he continued to make passes beforemy face,the streams
of magnetic fluid could be distinctly felt; my eyelids became
heavy and I lapsed into a deep sleep. During this sleeppeculiar
dreams or visions“ came to me as related in the next chapter
of my strange story.
*3
Normally,in both induced trance and where it is of self-
volition or accident, the Spiritual self will automaticallylapse
back into a normal sleep and then awaken; ofttimes even the
memory of the incident or experience is lost and only the hen-
fits or damage done, remains.
Trance and visions of this nature are to be discouraged.
They are a detriment and not a means of advancement, except
in the very few instances of greatly advanced Souls who are
to become leaders and teachers in the present incarnation. In
almost all instances of much advertised incidents and self-
laudation,theentire affair is a fake of the most degradingkind,
misleading thousands of people, and should never be taken
seriously. This is a warning, and all who fail to heed it must
pay the penalty. In all instances of true trance where the sub-
ject is not of an advanced Spiritual nature, the horrors of his
evils are portrayed as indicated throughout the present volume,
and in no instance are instructions of an Arcane nature, or past
lives revealed. Whenever anyone professes to have been in such
a trance and thus received instructions, or had past lives re-
vealed, it is a delusion. This statement is based on positive
knowledgeand theexperiencesof more than fiftyyears.
122 -
NED;0URB7
CHAPTERTHIRTEEN
AncientInitiation
Picturesque views of landscape passed before me in mag-
nificent panoramic array for some time. Finally I found my-
self contemplatinga scene of rare beautyand restful peace.
Over thevast expanse of undulatingverdure-clad slopes, a
small flock of sheep browsed contentedly, while a comely
shepherd youth lay upon the green grass of the hillside, with
his head resting upon his elbow, drowsilywatching them. His
face and form appeared familiar to me, as I admiringlynoted
the muscular cords of his other arm, in which he carelessly
clasped a shepherd's stafi. His voice also awakened a train of
indistinct memories as he hummed the words of a rude dance
song. While thus composedly amusing himself, and at the
same time performing lowlyduty, he gave a sudden start and
quickly arose to a sitting posture. With a startled look of sur-
prise, he dropped his stafl‘ and hastilyplacedhis hand over the
right arm, near theelbow. He held it thus for a moment, when
he raised his hand and gazed with horror upon two small red
spots from which the blood was beginning to ooze. He had
been ‘bitten by a snake. As he began to realize the danger his
face blanched, and he cast his eyes hurriedly about to find the
creeping enemy which had mortallywounded him. The serpent
had, however, silentlyescaped throughthe tall grass. Realizing
that no time should be lost, he started rapidly in search of
assistance. But as he proceeded down the decline his gait be-
came uncertain, and his eyes were almost bursting from their
sockets. He stumbled and fell, with a subdued groan, and, a
moment later, expired.
Then the scene of my vision changed suddenly. I was
124 NEDOURE
shown the interior of a room in a great temple. A number of
priests surrounded the bed of one who was about to pass over
to the unknown borderland.
As theserious watchers moved about the room, doing their
last duty for theinvalid,I obtained a full view of the suEerer’s
face. It also seemed strikinglyfamiliar to me. But even as I
looked upon him the end came. He gasped and fell back
into the arms of one of his faithful friends, who was bending
over him.
As the scene vanished I heard the voice of my guiding
brother, saying, “Wake up.” I at once opened my eyes and,
looking around, I saw the same three thoughtful faces. The
one nearest me said, as he made a number of upward passes
before my face:
“Wake up! Be bright and happy, 0 Neophyte.”
As I sat up, rubbingmy eyes and trying to recall my dream,
he said:
"Perchance thou hast had visions during thytrance?”
"True; but of a very sad nature," I replied.
As if anticipatingsuch a reply he exchanged glances with
the other two brothers and answered:
"The two death scenes of which thouwert a witness, were
to thee of great importance. They were visions of thypast in-
carnations. The characters who passed away in thy presence
were the previous forms in which thySoul dwelt.”
Then, after a thoughtful silence of a few moments, he
said, with an expression of relief:
“
’Tis well. Arise, now, fortunate Neophyte, and follow
I)
1.18.
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 125
Then, with a sign to his companions, he led ofi, followed
by them in single file toward the farther end of the room. I
hastily arose and followed
126 NEDOURE
Earth, Air and Water—which, in their turn, epitomize the
living entities called Elementals. The upper point pointing up-
wards or toward “heaven,” symbolizes Spirituality. The Con-
sciousness of Soul which alone can direct the elements, together
with all powers and forces. The design is also emblematicalof
the human body. Each one of the lower points indicates the
membersof the body, 2'. e., thearms and legs. The upper point
represents the head of man, which should always be superior
to the passions.
Then, turning to the six-pointed star, he continued:
“This emblem, known as the Seal of Solomon,” is but the
combinationof the higher and lower trinities; the former posi-
tive, the latter negative. Every series is complete with the
ternary and embracesthe law of seriation——Active, Passive and
Neuter.‘ The lower series is always negative to the superior,
and his double nature. The point up is symbolicof the upward
trend of the Soul—exaltation or exaltedness.
2The double triangle symbolizes the perfect, or equal de-
velopment of the Christos, or Soul of man, with the body. It
is the attainment of a perfect balance between the two. Every
sincere Neophyte, of whatever school, seeks to attain to this
perfection because of its desirability and the ultimate in the
earth life.
3This is also the Law of Action and Reaction, and the
result of the reaction: Father, mother, result—child. This is
God in action in the Universe. God made man and agreed it
was a perfect work, but he was not satisfied. He created woman
out of a part of that which he had already created; the end
result: progeny. Everything created is part of something else.
The weakness of all present day religious concepts since Egypt
has been in the false teaching of the one god—a masculine
God. Since God himself was not satisfied with the one creation,
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 127
from the living cell to the great living Creator.
"This fundamental truth of occultism is allegoricallyrep-
resented in the interlaced double triangles.‘ He who succeeds
in bringing his individual mind into exact harmony with the
Universal Mind has succeeded in reuniting the inner with the
outer sphere, from which he has only become separated by
mistakingillusionfor nuth. He who has succeeded in realizing
thepracticalmeaning of thissymbol has become one with the
Father—he is virtually an adept, as he has then succeeded in
squaring the circle and circling the square.”
He now extended thewand toward me and, withhis pierc-
ing eyes riveted upon mine, said in a louder tone:
“AspiringNeophyte, thoumust first acquirethe knowledge
which shows the goal, and lights thepath leadingthereto.”
The brotherof the south then added:
"Be strong and patientin thywork.”
“Thou must brave all and defend thyselfagainst every in-
ferior force,” came in deep tones from the brother in the west.
the male, the proof of this dissatisfaction is shown by his crea-
tion of the feminine, symbolizing the love nature that alone
can save humanity. One God alone is to be worshiped. To that
extent the one theory is correct. But the creative principle is
cold. There is no reception. In the Love nature alone is found
thematrix for the Conception. That is woman, while the result
is the child. The trinity; the three-in-one—more correctly, the
threein conjunction. This is God in action. Father,the Creator;
woman, the receiver and Reprodueer; the Child, the result;
Father, mother, child. God, the Father; Love, the mother;
Christos, the Son.
4
symbolicallythe same as the Seal of Solomon, except that
the Seal of Solomon is the Work (Word) made perfect.
128 NEDOURE
"Thou must raise thyself toward the transcendent regions,
which thy soul already approaches,” answered the brother of
the east.
On account of thebindingoaths I willconclude this record
of the great initiation into the degree of Pasrophoriby stating
that after receiving instruction that gave the key to many of
Naure’s mysteries, I was, in order no sdll further test my cour-
age, required to traverse a long dark tunnel whose entrance
opened betweenthepaws of theSphinx, and which terminated
in a vast catacombof the dead on the other side of the sacred
Nile,typifying thedescent of theprimitivehuman Monad into
earth under the cosmic waters, suffering an emblematicdeath,
and thence rising to life in the great brotherhood.‘
After enduring much physical suffering from hunger and
thirst, and just three days and nights from the time when I
stood in the presence of the brotherhood, I was proclaimed a
Pastophorisand received withhonor into theOrder of Ancient
Magi.
I also learned that I had been exceedingly fortunate in
meeting my spiritual Guru in the first degree, as but few
neophyteswere thus favored.
As Nedoure had been selected for my earthlyinstructor I
was invited by Netros, her father, to accompany them to Sais,
and to make my home withthem for the ensuing year.
Netros, thefatherof Nedoure, as an Hierophantand Grand
Magus of theAncientOrder, was held in high favor by Amasis,
5 Theremains of thisundergroundpassage of initiationmay
stillbe seen leadingfrom thermns of the temple Medinet-Abou,
under thebed of the river Nile, to the catacombsin the moun-
tains in the west.
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 129
the King,who secretly consulted him concerningall important
affairs of state, and oft-times with regard to his personal
business.
In urgent matters he was aided in divination by his fair
daughter, Nedoure, who had reached that perfect state of de-
velopment, in which she could at will communicate with
superior beings.
After the temple work for the year had been completed
in Thebes, I found myself at the ideal home of Nedoure in
Sais. In the atmosphere of this Palace of Rest, as it might
truthfullybe termed, surely one must be happy and satisfied.
But what was thatstrange sensation of nervousness, unrest and
anxiety? Everythingin thisfairy-likeretreat seemed to partake
of the harmony so apparent in father and daughter; even the
servants were of a superior order. Yet I was not happy, and a
cloud seemed to gather over me.
Upon our arrival at Sais theold Hierophanthad personally
shown me to my apartments; he also led me to his superb
library, which contained the cream of occult productions. As
he started to take leave of me he said:
“Althos,my brother,you are thricewelcome to this house,
which my daughter and I have called home from her earliest
infancy. Her mother passed away, in our eastern home in
Persia, at thetime of Nedoure’s entrance into this world. So it
was the will of Providence that I should possess the love of a
daughter instead of a wife. And perhaps it were better so for,
as you know, the life of a Magus makes it impossible for him
to give much in exchange for that which he, like all other
humans, desires to receive—-the love of a tender and true
woman, such as her mother was.
130 NEDOURE
"If we follow our precepts we can neither love not hate;
all sentiment and passion must yield to, instead of controlling,
theWill.
“A short time after this sad and at the same time happy
event—for in losing my belovedwife I was given a daughter-
I received an invitationfrom KingAmasis to acceptmy present
position at his court. I was also given the choice of a number
of houses from which this one was selected.
“We brought with us the old nurse and Byrene, who was
also then a child, and who now fills the duties of maid and
companion to my daughter.
“As my time is much employed with the magicians and
as advisor at the court, perhaps we shall not meet often, but
rememberthatmy heart is with thee at all times. My Esoteric
influencewillever bedirected for theupliftingof thysoul until
it merges into the great Universal Soul—the Creator."
“Father,"I replied, “thoughnot skillfulin the language of
your land, which has now become mine, I thank you most
sincerely for your expression of kindness and love, as well as
for thegreat honor you have conferred upon me, by admitting
me into the sanctity of your home. I assure you thatmy most
earnest efforts will be directed to becomingworthy of so great
a trust."
“Say no more,” he said, with a kindly wave of the hand.
“I shall leave theeto thecare of my beloveddaughter,Nedoure.
She will give to thee the necessary instruction a certain day in
each week. Though thou knowest much, my brother, I may
yet say thatall depends upon thyself. Let not thymind become
engrossed with thevanities of theworld, which are unreal and
fleeting. Let thygreatest pleasures be in contemplation of the
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 151
One, and in the purification and development of thy God-
nature, or soul. I will send to thee, from the palace, an at-
tendant who is also a neophyte. For the time, my brother, I
will say farewell.”
"May success await you, kind master, and for thykindness
I again thankyou; farewe ”
At this the grand old Magus, after promising to see me a
few days later, left me and pursued his way to the court of
King Amasis.
Left to myself and awaiting the arrival of my attendant, I
wandered about in a rathernervous state of unrest. The feeling
of depression grew upon me so pronounced as to confuse the
ordinarilyeven tenor of my thoughts. Seeking relief I went to
thelibrary,then to the corridor, and from thence to my room.
Yet the depression grew upon me and I found it vain to com-
pose myself. Again I went to the library, where I listlessly
glancedover a rare treatise on philosophy.My vision suddenly
seemed to cloud, the characters on the page seemed imbued
withmotion and formed, to my astonishment,thefaceof an old
physicianwhose eyes looked soberly,for a brief moment, into
my own. With a dissenting gesture the face melted again into
thereadable page beforeme, and I found myself now possessed
with many conflicting thoughts. My mind reverted to the
unpleasant experiences of the last year I had spent in the old
Ouri Monastery when in silence I had alone witnessed the
pranks and gibes of mischievous elementals, and I thought of
my old faithful tutor and companion, Gobab. Deciding that I
was being made sport of by some elementary sprite I turned
again, with some determination, to the volume I held, but, as
I now could not get harmonic vibrationwith the author,it was
reluctantlyreplaced.
132 NEDOURE
Then, as a last resource, I beganto examine theplan of the
house. I found thatit was constructed in such a manner as to
partake equally of both the Greek and Egyptian styles of
architecture. It was a large one-storied buildingand might have
been considered commonplace by one unacquainted with its
splendid interior, with its harmonious blending of Greek art
with Egyptian coloring. At the front entrance were massive
doors opening into a large circular hall, with colonnades
arranged in the form of a semicircle. Between eachpillarwas a
door, opening into one of the various apartments. Thus each
room in this semicircular building overlooked the beautiful
garden and observatory at the rear, beyond which, flowing in
majestic grandeur, could be seen the ancient river Nilus.
A broad, smoothstone walk,enclosed on bothsides by rare
flowers, led down to the banks of this historic stream. The
circular reception hall was well lighted by theSun’s rays, which
entered through a skylightby day, and by many strange-shaped
lamps at night. These lamps were of intricate workmanshipand
represented real and mythicalland and sea monsters.
The floors were covered with rich rugs from the Orient,
which entirelyneutralizedthesound of footsteps. Every appoint-
ment was perfect and superb.
Leaving the hall I again entered my room, and with my
depression now most profound, cast myself onto a low couch
where I lay in despair gazing upward.
My attention was suddenly caught by what seemed to be a
tiny sneak of smoke that rapidly revolved and grew in size as
I watched it. It dropped to
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 133
I sprang to my feet and looked out upon the garden in the
rear. What I saw caused my heart to beatwitha violencenever
beforeexperienced.
‘
_NEDOURE
CHAPTERFOURTEEN
Nedoure, the Priestess
Two beautifulcreatures were busy arranging and trimming
the flower plants which adorned each side of the walk leading
down to theNilus.
As my eyes and Soul drank in the loveliness of the scene,
Nedoure turned her beautifuland intellectual face toward me,
as if in response to some silent unseen attractive force. As
she caughtsight of my wistful gaze, however,she quicklyturned
away and resumed her work.
I was unable to remove my eyes and continued to state in
what must have seemed an ill-bred manner.
A few moments later the two fair creatures made their way,
arm in arm, to thepalace.
This littleincident was followed byseveral hours of nervous
unrest, as I was utterly unable to content myself in any pursuit.
Tryas hard as I might thethoughtful,glorious faceof Nedoure
would always appear before me. While pacing the floor, more
like a wild beast than a student of occultism, a low rap was
heard upon my door. There I encountered a dark, suave,
slightly-builtHindu, bowing gracefully and at the same time
extending his right hand, which contained a roll of papyrus.
Seizingthe communication,and biddinghim enter, I read:
“DEAR BROTHER ALTHOS: This will introduce to you one
of your countrymen, Shandra by name. He has but recently
arrived from Kashmir and has been received into the School
of Royal Magicians.As he is a student withbut little means, he
has cheerfully consented to spend his spare hours in your
136 NEDOURE
employ. Hoping this arrangement will be advantageous to all
parties,I am, Fraternally,
“Nnnros.
“P. S.—He is highly recommended by the Maharajah."
Upon my part, I was much pleasedwith this comelyyoung
man, about twenty years of age and speakingmy own language.
There was no reason to doubt but Shandra would be both a
pleasantand useful addition to thehousehold.
After hastilyperusing thenote I turned to the new arrival.
“So your name is Shandra?” I asked, in my native tongue.
“Yes,Sahib,” he replied,witha peculiar smile.
“My name is Althos,"I said, somewhat coldly,as there was
an inexpressiblesomethingabout this young man's eyes which
caused me to feel a trifle more uneasy than I had previously
been, if such were possible. They seemed to read one’s very
innermost soul.
“At your service, Sahib,” said he, with that strange smile
yet playing over his handsome face, as he made a courtly bow,
holding his Egyptian cap in his hand.
“Have you been long in Egypt?” I asked.
"But a few weeks, Sahib; yet I am already in love with this
beautifulvalley and picturesque river. I love the perfume of
acacias and admire the learned men and beautiful ladies of
this land,which is almost a sister to our own.”
“Egypt is, no doubt, the cradle of advanced thought,” I
replied, a trifle surprised at the beautiful expressions of this
young poet. Nevertheless, I made up my mind to keep him at
arm’s length.
The next morning a message was received from Nedoure,
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 137
stating thatshe would be pleased to receive me after the noon
hour of the following day, to begin my studies in higher
occultism.
My mind had been somewhat calmed by refreshing sleep,
yet no sooner had thehandsomemaid who brought theinscribed
shell retired, than that same unaccountable excitement took
possession of me. One moment I dreaded to meet her, but the
next instant found me longing for the appointed time to come.
Then I would take myself sternly to task for such seeming
vascillation.Why should I fear to meet this lofty being,whose
purity of thoughtand depth of learning were the pride of the
Magi? Time alone would answer.
At the appointed time I found myself in front of thedoor
leadingto her reception room.
The door was slightlyajar, and, as I approached, it swung
silentlyopen.
Byrene, the companion of Nedoure, welcomed me with a
sweet, unaffected smile, and retired to the adjoining room,
where she at once busied herself with the decoration of some
very delicate pottery.
As I entered theroom the queenly Nedoure advanced with
majesticgrace to receive me. A faint trace of a smileillumined
her features for an instant only, when she again resumed that
dreamy look of meditation thatseemed so natural to her. With
a courteous wave of thehand she motionedme to a seat, saying:
‘Thricewelcome,dear brotherAlthos.It is a grandpleasure
to again meet one who has so successfully passed the trying
tests of the Pastophorus. May you be equally victorious in the
coming trials of the Epoptai.
“Fair guardian angel,” I replied, with a how, "were it not
138 NEDOURE
for the esoteric assistance of the brotherhood, success would
scarcely have been mine. And, indeed, had not thy pure and
powerful mind called to my aid the grand being,who is even
now my Guru, this meeting of pupil and preceptress would not
today have been possible.”
“Say not so, Althos.The human Will has great possibilities
and thineown is not theweakest. I have reason to believethat
you have for your spiritual instructor, Watlan, the Atlantean.
True is it not?”
As she uttered thename of this harmoniousbeing,who had
rescued me from the terrible elementals and had so kindly
offered to lead me, her whole manner changed. Her perfect
Chaldean features assumeda blissful expression akin to divinity.
Without awaiting my reply, as she was no doubt for the
momentobliviousof my presence, she claspedher hands together
over her heaving breast and rolled her glorious eyes upward in
sacred adoration as if she even now beheld the glorious form
of Watlan. Her deep respiration caused her purple robe and
goldtrimmings to move in rhythmicunison, whileher magnifi-
cent frame vibrated from head to foot. Her lips moved as if in
prayer.
While she stood thus, as a robed statue, adoring this
inhabitantof a higher realm,I glancedaround at thefurnishings
of theroom, which were rich but simple. The floor was covered
with a rich Indian carpet. In each corner of the room stood
small marble figures, representing the guardian angels of the
four cardinal points. Upon the walls were several paintings of
landscapes, while in the center of the room stood a marble-
covered center-table, upon which stood a beautifulbouquet of
white and blue lotus flowers. This, witha few rolls of papyrus,
completed the furnishings of the room.
PRIESTBSS OF THE MAGI 139
After noting the above with a sweep of the eye, my gaze
rested upon the companion of Nedoure. As she was busily
engaged with her painting, I leisurely surveyed her. She was
in every way the opposite of Nedoure. She had a complexion
of a rich olive tint, with two mild, wondering eyes, not unlike
the gazelle. Her nose was somewhat shorter than those of a
real beauty,but the rich, expressive lips, with-the abundance
of raven tresses, gave to a most delightful ensemble. She was
dressed in a plain, simple robe of dark material, which I was
unable to note further, as I felt the thrillinggaze of Nedoure,
before her musical voice aroused me.
"I beg your pardon, Althos,” she said, "but if you only
knew the rapture awakened by the mention of that one name
I am sure you would excuse my apparent forgetfulness of
your most welcome presence.
"When I am lonelyI thinkof Watlan and I at once have
the company of pleasant thoughts. Should I ever become sad,
the thought of his face ‘brings instant happiness. He is truly
my guiding star, to whom I am attached by the greatest bond
of earth or heaven—Love.”
"Dear teacher,” I said, while trying to repress the pain of
jealousy which had arisen in my heart, "excuse me if I err, but
Ithoughtwe must neither love not hate in this life. My poor
understanding led me to believe thatpassion of any form was
detrimental to progress.”
“We must neither love not hate‘ in the physical plane, as
1Hate must be one of the first of the evil passions to be
eliminated from the Neophyte’s consciousness. Hate is the
direct opposite of Love; hence is as destructive and debasing as
Love is constructive and exalting. Love as generallyunderstood,
140 NEDOURE
to become the slave of any passion here would retard our
upward journey. Yet if we can placeour love upon one higher
than ourselves it can be no harm but a blessing,as it willform
the chain upon which we may ascen ."
A cruel pang permeated my whole nervous system, which
grew stronger as she so innocently discussed the grandeur of
love. Althoughsuch feelings were new to me, whose life had
been spent in monasteries and temples, yet my intuition told
me during thisbrief moment, thatI loved” Nedoure, and at the
same time that my love dawned upon me a feeling of mad
jealousy came with it. I was jealous of a beingwho was so far
above me in purity that it were not right to even thinkof his
sanctifiedname in the same moment withmy own weak self.’
With lightning-likerapidity these analyticalconclusions flirted
cannot be impersonal because it has its object, and that object
is outside of the realm of the Master. Moreover, love makes
demands, and these demands are frequently in conflict with
right and with duty.
To maintain peace between the lover and the loved one,
there is compromise, and compromise is defeat!
*Zanom',thegreat Master-Initiateof Lytton’snovel Zanoni,
is an example. Although he had attained to the highest degree
as a PhilosophicInitiate, by loving and compromising between
his love for the woman and his allegiance to the Great Work,
he lost all of his power and became helpless even to help “her,”
except by the ordinary means at the command of all mortals.
“Love is not forbidden the Master because it is love, but
because it demands an exchange; exchange is the giving up of
something,and results in weakness. Marriagewithits component
part, however, is forbidden only to Initiates of certain degrees
and certain positions of authorityheld by the Initiate.
“The proper term is not “love” since that can exist only
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 141
throughmy mind as she unconsciouslydefined love to one who
had at this moment awakened to the painful realization of it.
"So you have also seen that most lovable of beings?” I
asked, in a hollow voice, which I tried to control, as I vainly
attempted to swallow the lump which had arisen in my throat.
“Yes;I have seen him,” she repliedin low, measured tones,
“but of late I have been unable to evoke him."
She then uttered a deep sigh, as she seated herself at the
little center-table and absently took up a roll of papyrus.
Withoutraisingher eyes to mine, she continued:
"Brother,it was my strongest wish thathe should aid you.
We have now, in the mutual friendship of Watlan, another
reason for beingthebestof friends.We shall speak more of him
anon. In the meantime, we will begin with our studies, which
I hope willserve you as well as the precepts of Pheros.
"To begin with, every series is complete with the Trinity,
or, in other words, each ternary is complete within itself.
"Any addition to it would be the beginning of another
ternary, in a different octave. Each trinity also embraces an
active,passiveand neuter, and thisis called thelaw of the series.
“The Universe consists of three great planes—Physical,
Spiritual, and Divine. Man is divided into three great divisions
—Soul, Spirit, and Body.
“To-day we will consider the Holy Trinity. The Holy
Trinity must have its ‘forth dimension or result,’ and is but
betweenman and woman, but in a sense, the even greater one:
affection. Love makes demands: proofs of love in service; while
true affection is free from selfishness. It gives and though it
should receive in return, it is satisfiedbygiving.
142 NEDOURE
another name for evolution. All things may be formed into
an expression of truth.
"The Holy Trinityis Alchemy,Nature, the alchemist, and
Man, the chemist.
"Nature is thegreat teacher of all. She beginsher workwith
four kingdoms, w'z., Elements, Minerals, Seeds, and Fruits.
"The four great Elements are Fire, Earth, Air, and Water,
which are also known to us as Isis, Issis, Horus, and Osiris, the
gods of fire, water, earth and air.
"With the Hindus, these forces or elements correspond to
Brahma, Vischnu, Siva, and Atma. In physical philosophywe
find themrepresented by sulphur, salt, mercury and tincture.
“As all true occult knowledgemust embracean understand-
ing of sounds, numbers and colors, we will consider, for a
moment, the color of the latter.
"The soul of sulphur is Indian yellow; of salt, ultramarine
blue; and of mercury is vermilion. Tincture is the grey matter
of the brain.
"When the earth was created, "it was without form and
void,’ and darkness was upon the deep. The first element
manifest in creation was fire, in order that there might be
‘light.’
"The fire gases arising came in contact with the colder
ether, forming water by condensation,or the life-givinggas of
hydrogen. Oxygen,the fire, gas, is positive; the earth, nitrogen
gas, is negative; and water, the hydrogen gas, is neutral. Thus
we have our first or Fire Trinity.
"The combination of these gases form the air or fourth
dimension, without which neither animal nor vegetable life
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 143
can exist. These being the first or Fatherforces, we call them
of God theFather,or Osiris, thefirst person in the trinity.
"In the water trinity we find that sulphur corresponds to
fire; as one molecule of sulphur will fuse withone molecule of
oxygen, thus forming the positive in the water trinity. Salt is
theneutral as it possesses thelife-givingproperties of thewater.
Mercury is the negative, as it is the mercurial properties of the
sap thatcauses it to rise in thetree and bringforth fruit.
"Earthsymbolizesthemother,in which the seed is planted.
“Thus the product or fourth dimension of these three is
Electron, and beingderived from the first, it is called Son or
Issis, thesecond person of the trinity.
"As the soul of sulphur is Indian yellow, the soul of salt
ultramarine blue, and the soul of mercury vermilion,we have
theprimarycolors,from which all theother shades are evolved.
“In the earth trinity, man is the positive, sperma corres-
pondingto water, and salt thelife-givingprinciple.The neutral
and female corresponding to earth, and mercury, the mother
principle, the negative. The product of these two gives us the
third,which is Ether,or thehigher life. It is called,in thetrinity,
theHoly Spirit or Horus.
“In order to obtain the fourth dimension and square our
sum, we find that material man is positive; spiritual nature,
the negative; tincture, the neutral. The fourth dimension will
thus be Master; that is to say, when we become master of all
the foregoing elements and forces, then is born in us "I'he
Christos.’ "
At this,Nedoure laid the papyrus upon the center-table in
front of her, and began to pluck absently at one of the lotus
blossoms.
144 NEDOURE
As I remained silent, pondering over the lesson, she con-
tinued thus for a few moments, when she turned slowlytoward
me regarding me intentlywithher luminous eyes, about which
thereappeared a slight suspicionof moisture, and said:
“My dear brother,I suppose you have no difficultyin com-
prehending my humble teachings or, I might better say, these
great philosophicaltruthsas presentedby my humbleself.”
"Dear teacher, I would like to ask why is material man
positive and spiritual nature negative?” I asked.
"Thatcondition is onlyso in thematerial or physicalplane.
In the manifestation of universal law we shall always find the
inferior yields to the superior. A thingmay be positive in one
state or condition; at the same time it may be negative to the
higher plane. For instance, a man is positive to his family,yet
negativeto the laws of his tribeor nation.
"The earth is positive to all things upon its surface, yet
negative to the Sun.
"When a child is young the soul manifests in the form of
conscience, and enters a mild protest to every wrong act.
“Should the physical of the child be developed in undue
proportion to the spiritual, the material nature soon becomes
so strong that the reproval of conscience ceases to attract
attention.
“Thus the positive overcomes the negative.
“On the physical plane, physical nature is positive and
spiritual nature is negative.In the spiritual planeit is positive.”
"Thank you; I thinkI now have a fair idea of the lesson,
and shall devote theinterveningtime betweenour next meeting
to a still further consideration of its teachings."
At this Nedoure arose, and I understood the lesson was
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 145
finished; so, again thankingher for the interest in my progress
and promising to call the next day, I left the apartment.
As I entered my own room all thepent up and conflicting
passions of the last hour now burst upon me with all the fury
of a tornado.
Casting aside the notes which I held in my hand, I paced
the room like a caged wild beast. My life-long desire for the
highest developmentof my body,soul and spirit was now in the
balance, opposed to the love of woman. What was I to do? In
despair I threwmyself face down upon my couch.
While tossing thus the chela, Shandra, entered the room.
His placid,handsome face and courtly manners were soothing
in the extreme. He spoke not a word concerning my perturbed
state of mind, but seating himself beside my couch, took my
hands gently in his own and fastened upon me his fascinating
eyes. A quiet feeling stole over me, and I was soon in a deep
sleep,but thedream thatcame did but little to quietme. Wadan,
my guru, appeared holding in his arms the priestess of the
Magi. They made a beautiful picture as they gazed lovingly
into each others eyes. They formed the acme of synthetical
attraction between the male and femaleprinciple.
His face, radiantwiththe happy smileof our first meeting,
appeared to devour her yielding loveliness, while she wore an
expression of supreme happiness that seemed foreign to her
pious nature.
Unable to bear the sight of this tantalizing vision any
longer—I woke with a start!
146
CHAPTERFIFTEEN
The Templeof Ptah
The temple of Ptah stood forth grand and impressive in
its majestic silence.
The effulgent rays of the rising sun were reflected back
from the golden, twelve-rayed sun that adorned its top. All
Nature united to make the scene a most enchanting one. The
great orb of day cast his lifegiving rays upon the dark blue
waters of the Nile as freely as he nourished the blooming
flower-gardens and stately trees in the grove of Hathor. This
beingthe hour of devotion for the Sun-worshipers, not a being
was in sight withoutthe temple. Even thatfavorite promenade,
the avenue of Sphinxes,was for once deserted.
As the Sun completely emerged from the horizon, a loud
and somewhat musical chant burst forth from the priests who
were kneelingin adoration upon the temple roof.
Presently three dark men, who were evidently unfamiliar
with the customs of the Sun-worshipers, which forbade any
intrusion at this sacred moment, came into view, walkingwith
dignifiedmien and conversing in low tones. They were clothed
in longdarkrobes,and wore upon theirheads thebrightcolored
turbans of theOrient.
One, with a gigantic figure and a short curly beard, could
have beenrecognizedas Tantras. His two companions, on either
side might also have been recalled as his assistants.
Althoughtheyhad just arrived in Sais the previous night,
urgent business had caused them to rise earlyin order thatthey
might pay theirvisit to thepriests of the pagan Sun-worship.
As they approached nearer, the sounds of the morning
148 NEDOURE
service fell upon their ears. For an instant theyslackenedtheir
pace, as if in doubt, but the firm, swinginggait of Tantras,who
did not even deign to look back, reassured them and theycon-
tinued onward. Arrivingat the door of the great temple, they
halted before the gigantic statue of Sesostris, where they
removed their turbans and waited respectfully.When the songs
of greeting to the Sun had ceased, a thickset,corpulent priest,
dressed in a red robe, appeared in thedoorway.
Witha hastybow,Tanrras stepped forward and, presenting
a small tablet, said:
"Inform the favored servant of the gods, he who holds the
place of greatest honor, that his royal highness, the Maharaja
of Kashmir, has condescended to convey greetings through his
humble servant Tantras."
With a low bow the priest retired.
Returning shortly he bade Tantras follow him, adding that
Nevo-loo, the high priest of Ptah, had just emerged from the
holyof holies, the inner sanctuary of Rah, the Sun-god.
Bidding his two companions await his return, Tantras
followed thepriest, passing throughthegreat door, over which
hung thesacredwinged-globe.
They then proceeded through the grand entrance chamber,
whose walls and ceiling were covered with hieroglyphicsand
symbolic paintings, traced in the bright colors which the
Egyptians alone used to stamp immortality upon their works.
Turningto the right, between two enormous pillars, they
entered a spacious chamber whose concave ceilingwas painted
a light blue, withgolden representations of the Sun, Moon and
planets.
At thefartherend of thislargehall could beseen a number
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 149
of devotees in an attitude of earnest supplication. The air was
heavy-laden with incense, and now and then, between the
prayers of the officiating priest, came the loud bellowing of
Apis, thesacred bull.
Following closely upon his guide, Tantras passed near the
row of worshipers, arranged in a semi-cirde around the altar.
Entering a low door, which caused him to bend his great
head and neck, Tantras found himself in a brilliantlylighted
sanctuary. His guide, who had preceded him some distance,
stopped at the farther end of the room, and, glancing back,
motioned thegrim Hinduto follow. He then -began the ascent
of thewide staircase. A few moments later theywere bothupon
the gorgeously tiled roof of the temple.
Following the action of his guide, who fell upon his face
in the presence of a shrewd looking old man, who was seated
in a gorgeous chair facing the east, Tantras bowed also his
great frame. Almost at the same instant he heard a clear,
metallic voice addressing him in the language of Hindoostani:
“Arise, great Tantras! For such I know thou art. The gods
have indeed sent us in thee a rare blessing. Nevo-loo bids thee
welcome.”
At this,Tantras arose, bowing low, and handed to the high
priest a large roll of manuscript, bound with the royal ribbon
and seal of the Maharaja of Kashmir.
Nevo-loo was a tall, angular man, with a large forehead,
clear cut nose, small mouth and pointed chin, which were
nationalcharacteristicswiththehigher classes of Egyptians. His
complexion was not unlike old yellow parchment. The oily
secretion of his skin had ceased to perform its function many
years previous. The marks of time were plainly visible about
1 50 NEDOURE
the corners of his mouth,and in the deep furrows of his brow.
The dark depressions under his eyes gave him an expression
thatwould have been mummy-likewere it not for his fish-like
eyes. The eyes are usually called the windows of the soul. But
not so with those of Nevo-loo; he could at will assume an
expression of saint-like sanctity, though at the same time his
mind conceived the most diabolical scheme. His long, grey
locks also added to his benign appearance. The little red cap,
which he always wore, concealed a bald spot of which he was
a triflesensitive. He was dressed according to custom, wearing
a bright robe of scarlet, which was alwaysdonned by the high
priest during the hour of Sun-worship. Across his breast
diagonally he wore a broad band, covered by a number of '
precious stones, similarto theUrim and Thumminof theJewish
high priest.
As Nevo-loo read the letter, Tantras remained standing,
with his head meeklybowed upon his breast. As he continued
to read his eyes sparkledwith undisguised pleasure, and from
time to time a genuine smile of satisfaction flirted over his
murnmy-like countenance. Here was the man he had long
sought.
CHAPTERSIXTEEN
PaganPriests
Tantras, the great magician of India, friend of kings and
ruler of unseen forces, sent, as if by providence, to aid him at
themost critical period of his exciting life, which had been for
years but little more than a continuation of plots, schemes and
struggles to hold the favor of the reigning monarch.
He was the head and representative of the pagan priests,
who were always at swords’ points with the Magians.
First one and then theother would have the ascendency in
affairs of state.
Since Amasis had ascended the throne from the ranks as a
common soldier, he had openly favored the Magi. Though
Nevo-loowas thusthwartedin his desire to completelydominate
theking, he had still certain rights before the law which made
him a personage of some importance.
When his keen perception showed him that Amasis was
slipping from his control, all the amning of his fertile brain
was devoted to winning the respect and esteem of the morose
and melancholy Psamittichus, son of Amasis and successor to
the throne.
The Magi were skilled in reading the stars; the pagan
priests also read the book of the heavens. The former adored
one God, while the latter found a God for every domain of
Nature—pantheism.The Magi were enabled, by the science of
alchemyandpersonaldevelopment,to perform most astounding
miracles.‘ The pagan priests, unable to produce genuine
phenomena, had devised some very ingenious tricks.
1 The word “miracle” is a common error. A miracle would
152 NEDOURE
For instance, when Rah, the Sun-god, delivered his annual
admonitions to his followers, and answered questions in the
oracularmanner, it seemed truly miraculous; yet, had theybeen
permitted to see the secret passage leading to the interior of
the idol, he would have easily discovered one of the sancti-
monious priests hidden within the metallic form.
But here before Nevo-loo stood the great tantrika, whose
fame had been sung by the poets of all lands and the minstrels
of all nations.
When the old priest had finished the epistle he glanced
around hastily to see that he was unobserved, then taking
Tantras by the arm, he said:
"Come, my brother; thou art worthy to enter even the
sanctuaries.Thou shalt partake of our salt, and none shall stand
nearer to Nevo-loo than thou, who comest as the medium of
great powers."
Tantras smiled and bowed with surprising grace, and
replied with mild gravity, as he walked slowly by the side of
the cunning old priest:
"Good Father,I am but thehumble servant of my king and
master. It is to cultivate more friendlyrelations with the wise
men of Egypt thatI have come. At all times your wish shall be
for me a comman .”
be the accomplishmentof an act or deed outside of the Law;
hence an avoidance of theoperation of the Law, or an infringe-
ment upon the Law. If this were possible, chaos in the universe
would result.
CHAPTERSEVENTEEN
The BlackMagicians
Several months had now elapsed since Tantras with his
two darkassistants had arrived in Egypt.
In the eastern wing of thegreat templeof Phtah, in apart-
ments of regal splendor, the Hindu magician with his two
attendants, Gunga and Mohat, were daily consulted by the
nobilityof the land. This gifted but perverse Oriental gave
advice upon all affairs, and sold charms guaranteed to improve
the fortunes of the applicants.
By his great knowledge of strange herbs and potions he
assisted the profligatenobles to wield a strong and vicious in-
fluence over their associates.
With his secret incantations he also aided them in their
ambitious political schemes.
His fame had thus spread throughout the length and
breadth of the land, undl he now found himself consulted
dailyby distinguished devotees from all parts of the kingdom.
Nevo-loo, the high priest, was delighted, as by the occult
power of the tantrika the priesthood of the Sun worshipers
received new prestige. They were now in a position to vie with
the Magi, as the works of Tantras were conceded to be mar-
velous, even by thosewho suspected the source of his power.
It is true that Amasis, the just ruler, still depended upon
Netros and his gifted daughterNedoure in those trying condi-
tions where superhuman knowledge alone could warn him of
impending danger or guide his scepter through the maze of
political intrigue, by which all monarchs are more or less
surrounded.
154 NEDOURE
But not so with Psamittichus, heir to the throneof Egypt.
Being accustomed from his earliest youth to passively oppose
his father in all things,it was but natural that he should also
diifer from him in religious opinion. From childhoodthe cold
nature of Psamittichus had found but one responsive aflinity—
that was Nevo-loo. He had for hours remained alone in the
observatory with no one but the priest-astronomer.
There is nothing in all the world that will bring forth
man’s higher thoughts as the contemplation of Nature in all
her grandeur, and what could be more inspiring than to gaze
upon the myriads of fiery sentinels, some stationary and some
moving upon the azure fields of the Omnipotent.
So in that strange, sad nature of the dreaming prince, a
nature in which the passions which sway humanity were
absent, a firm and enduring attachment sprang up for the
High Priest of Phtah.
The old priest, who was no novice in reading human char-
acter, soon learned that this passionless scion of royalty could
neither be held not dominated by an appeal to either love or
friendship; nor did he possess that enthusiasmfor the various
gods thatwould alwayskeep him by the side of Nevo-loo. But
hold him he must; so the high priest was not long in discover-
ing the keynote of his nature—ambition.
Like all mankind, he had a weakness, if such it may be
called. At an early age he dreamed of forming a vast empire
that extended from the Lybian range to the Euphrates, and
from the shores of the Mediterranean to the great lakes of the
south. As the youth grew into manhood, Nevo-loo fanned the
flickeringlight of youthful ambition into the fierce war spirit
of a gloomy man. To skillfullydrawn pictures of a vast do-
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 155
main thedesigning priest gave promises of divine aid, and cast
horoscopes in which the prince was depicted as the instrument
of predestination,all of which was solemnlyconfirmed by the
oracles. Thus the flame which was weak at first, burst forth
and became the consuming passion of the young priest.
To accomplish such stupendous plans of conquest, Psamit-
tichus required the aid of theGreeks, over the sea to the north,
and the stalwart Nubians of the South. He would then be
able to crush and subjugate his hatred and dangerous rival,
Persia. Among the obstacles which barred the consummation
of such a great ambition was ill health. However, since the
arrival of Tantras, to whom he had been almost a dailyvisitor,
a marvelous change had been wrought in him. His eyes shone
with the brightness of health, and his step became as elastic
as an athlete. In fact, the strange necromancer appeared to
draw out all the warmth of this selfish nature, and tumor cau-
tiously reported that the prince had fallen under the strange
power of fascination attributed to Tantras.
So it was upon this day, as the golden Sun sank to rest
behind the somber Libyan range, after pouring his scorching
rays upon the great Sahara with unusual fierceness. In the
crowded streets of Sais, the Egyptian capitol, gaily dressed
noblemen and tired merchants passed familiarlynear the wan-
dering mendicants, with here and there a priest from some
one of the temples along the Nile.
All seemed intent upon recreation or some form of rest
after a day of enervating heat. The crowd bent its way to the
groves of Hathor. From thence many made their way down
the broad stone steps leading to the banks of the Nile. Here
was a scene of gayety to please the eye and inspire the soul
156 NEDOURE
with reverence for the pleasures rendered possible by the
greatest of all earthly gifts, life.
Entrancing strains of music came from many of the gayly
decorated craft, wafted by the gentle breezes from the north,
which fanned the perspiring brow of noble and mendicant
alike and at the same time served as power to bear the royal
pagodas up the stream.
For this reason the Nile is ever a mute witness to the
wisdom and kindness of providence, for at any time or season
the Nile boatmen will find a favorable norther to beat him
up stream. When he desires to return he has but to depend
upon the current, thatwill return him to any port.
We may now look up another scene. In the east wing of
the temple of Phtah, occupying apartments of regal splendor,
Tantras and his assistants might have been seen. Surrounded
with all the luxury that the oriental mind could conceive, we
find him testing from his labors after an unusually busy day
in which he had been enabled to meet but a small part of the
dignitarieswho desired to consult him. In elegant apartments,
decorated with Grecian statuary, with rugs and curtains from
Persia, with impressive paintings of genii and gods, Tantras
could have been seen dressed in an elaborate robe of indigo
and trimmed with gold, seated upon a gorgeous divan placed
upon an elevated rosuum. Behind him was the mystic alcove,
covered completelywithblacksilk, before which hung a large
sombercurtain of blackvelvet. Fastened over its surface were
a number of strange objects, among which were the skins of
gailycolored serpents, withhere and therea dried road or bar.
It was also decorated with suggestive bits of the human body,
as hair, teeth, dried fingers and the like.
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 157
Stretched at full lengthupon the divan, withhis great arms
extended over his head, Tantras appeared, if possible, in a more
thoughtful state than usual, as now and then a frown would
gather upon his brow as he gazed vacantlyat the decorations
of the ceiling. In the meantime, Gunga and Mohat, his two
companions, or, more properly speaking, his two servants,
moved noiselessly about the apartments.
Presentlythe tinklingof bells sounded throughthe temple
halls. The delicate chimes caused the black magician to sit
erect and turn his head expectantly and assume once more the
stern look of authority,as was his wont.
At this instant two couriers, dressed in exactly the same
manner, pulled aside the rich curtains and announced the
arrival of Prince Psamittichus and then as quietlywithdrew.
At mention of the prince, Tantras arose; at the same time
his two assistants vanished amid the maze of curtains and
tapestry.
In the meantime theheavy tread of soldiers could be heard
along thestone floor of the temple, as theyescorted the prince
to the luxuriant apartments of the sorcerer.
As Psamittichus approached the entrance the curtains
parted, as if drawn aside by invisible hands. But without
apparentlynoticingthis legerdemain, theprince stepped firmly
through the entrance and stood alone in the presence of the
tantrika.
His was withal a queer looking figure, with a body ab-
normally long in proportion to his short legs, and arms of
such lengththathe could stand erect and touch the knees with
his fingertips. To completesuch an unusual appearance, a long,
thin face, with an aquiline nose, wide thin lips and pointed
158 NEDOURE
chin, and two large dreamybrown eyes, which matched his long
brown locks, thathung down to his waist in a somewhat femi-
nine fashion.
His complexionwas of waxen whiteness, and was, perhaps,
the only gift of his Grecian mother.
Jewels were worn in profusion over the front of his bright
red bodice; while over his shoulders hung a bright blue silken
robe
At his entrance Tantras stood erect and looked him full in
the face, making thus an allegorical representation of the lion
and the lamb.
An observer might have also read behind thesmileof the
sorcerer an assurance born of undoubted power.
The prince grew uncomfortable under the scrutinizing
glance of the dark giant and nervously pulled his robe closer
around his ill-shapen -body as he spoke in a low but distinct
tone:
“O most wonderful of beings, for I know not yet, if I
should call you god, man or devil. Hast thou theanswer ready
for which the prince of the realm has come?"
“Yea,mightiest of princes, thegods have vouch-safed reply.
Thou didst seek to know if aughtexisted in the earth or with-
out for the prolongation of thy most valued life. The answer
cometh, ‘Yea,yea, yea .
Pausing for a moment and drawing up his stature to its
full height, the magician continued:
“The royal instrument of the gods shall have years added
unto him like the blades of grass in the fields, if "
“Speak on, great Tantras," interrupted the prince, trem-
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 159
bling with ill-suppressed emotion. “Tell me all, and thy ex-
travagant wish will be thyreward."
"Since thou wert last in my humble abode, great son of
Amasis,neithersleephas come to my eyes, not hast food passed
my lips. I was intrusted with a question from the greatest
mortal to the gods. Had the answer to your highness been
other than favorable I would have gladly laid down my life
rather than be the ‘bearer of evil tidings to the forthcoming
ruler of earth," said Tantras, with a loud sigh.
"Tell me more; tell me all. Hast thou the secret of the
elixir?" queried the prince, feverishly and imploringly.
“Light of the firmament,” said the wily Tantras, falling
upon his knees, “I have it not, for thegreat elixir must be com-
pounded according to the conjunction of the planets. Yet all
the details are now known to thy servant, thanks to the in-
dulgence of the gods, and it shall be made at once if "
Here Tantras paused and remained silent.
“Strange man, what meanest thou by if?" said the prince
impatiently; continuing, as the smoldering fires in his nature
were aroused, he added: “What condition can stand between
our will and the magic liquid? Think well ere thou givest
reply.”
As he spoke he pointed his long bony finger menacingly
toward the sorcerer, who met his fretful temper and implied
threat with a strange glitter in his eyes. While the prince was
still shaking his finger, his eyes suddenly changed their ex-
pression from one of defiance to entreaty, and his words ended
in unintelligible jibber, that was finally terminated by an im-
potent movement of the lips in a vain attempt to speak still
160 NEDOURE
further. While struggling thus to utter further words, Tantras
interrupted him in a harsh, satirical voice:
"Speak thy words louder, 0 prince, if thy servant would
hear thee.”
At this, Psarnittichus looked either frightened or abashed,
as he resumed in a low tone:
“I beg pardon of the gods for speaking hasty, but tell
me, if thoulovest me, when may I drink of the liquid thatwill
give me perpetual life?"
“I shall beginworkon thepotion at once, great prince, but
I know not if thou will grant what is required.”
“Have we not spoken? Thou hast but to make thywish
known and it shall be granted, though all my Greek mercen-
aries were required to aid in fulfilingmy promise.”
“
’Tis well, 0 ruler of men and favorite of the gods. Thy
servant has wherewith to work upon the elixir until the time
when Saturn crosses thefirst house. I shall then call upon thy
greatness for the necessary assistance.”
"Ask what thou will, friend of Nevo-loo and the gods. I
go forth with the happiness of hope, all of which I owe to
thee.”
Psamittichus turned to go, but as if recalling something,
he turned slowly to the sorcerer and asked, as he raised his
hand cautiously:
“Andwhat of the King? Does the grim Saturn still sit in
his first lunar mansion?”
', At this query Tantras clasped his hands and, rolling his
evileyes upward, replied:
“O light of the world and terror of foes, the will of the
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 161
gods is written in letters of fire across theheavens, but darkness
deep and heavy hangs, like a pall, over thyfather's pathway.
“He has turned from the gods of his ancestors. They have
waited with patience to reclaim him. It is now too late.
“He is surrounded by evil advisors, whom thy highness
knows but too well.
“The brightest star of the heavens must be extinguished
thatthe Sun may rise in all its splendor. Before theNew Moon,
theresplendentSun willappear on the horizon.”
At this thinlyveiled prediction of his father's death the
prince bowed in silence and left the apartment of this arch
villainfor thepalaceof Amasis.
Tantras remained for several minutes, standing in his posi-
tion of mock supplication,after thedeparture of Psamittichus.
When therelatingfootsteps of the Greeks had died away in
the corridors, his face assumed a demoniacal expression as he
fiercely stamped his foot for Gunga and Mohat.
In an instant theyappeared.
“Close the doors. Permit no one to enter ere tomorrow's
Sun is on themeridian.Return to me at thefourthhour of night.
Time fliesand we have work to do.”
Dismissing the two brothers of the left with an impatient
wave of thehand, he retired to his private room, evidentlybent
upon somethingterrible.
162
CHAPTER EIGHTEEN
TranceExperience
As I awoke a cold, creeping sensation pervaded my spinal
column, and my hair beganto rise upon end.
During my trance sleep I had been permitted to see the
beautifulthough tantalizing vision of Watlan and Neodure.
But horrors! witheyes wide open what did I now see? Was
I awake or dreaming?
My guru had vanished, yet the astral form of Neodoure
remained before me. Witli one hand at her side and the other
pressed lightly over her heart, she stood in an artistic dreamy
attitude, looking upward as if still following the bright, hand-
some form of Watlan. As she stood thus, an illuminatedexpres-
sion of divine love and confidence shone upon her classic fea-
tures, as she smiledas one can onlydo in thespringtimeof life.
She was utterly oblivious to my presence, so my injured
pride was rendered less humiliatingby the thoughtthatwhat I
now beheldwas onlya vision.
As I gazed,spellbound,upon the etherialcounterpart of my
hopeless love, a dark form came into view,terrible in its aspect
and moving with the rapidity of thought. As it drew nearer I
could plainlydiscern the Maharaja of Kashmir, mounted upon
a strange, hideous creature, withthe body of a huge blackgoat,
and theevil‘,distorted faceof a low-caste Hindu.
The goat and rider were rushing with terrific speed toward
the apparently unconscious Nedoure. My heart stood still as
thishorrid phantomapproached. Quick as a flashthe Maharaja
seized her in his arms and, without reducing his speed, swung
her fair form, now quiet and motionless, upon the back of his
164 NEDOURE
Satanic steed. The apparition then plunged down a dark abyss.
Wafted to my ears from the darkness below came in faint,
silvery tones, which I shall never forget, the name "Wadan.”
In my futiledesire to save her I sprang from my bed and,
withmaddened effort, hurled myself violentlyagainst thedoor
of my room.
The force of contact thoroughlyaroused me; even so, my
mind was yet much confused.‘ Such realistic visions could not
be less than a warning. But how was I to interpret them? True,
therewere thosein the Brotherhoodof theMagi who had great
skill in the interpretation of dreams and in other forms of di-
vination.Yet might not the brother who could read the mean-
ing of dreams also discover my weakness in yieldingto physical
desires? I decided it were best to remain silentand watchful.
Sometime was required to bathemy head in cold water and
fumigate myself with the incense used for banishing evil in-
fluences and correcting a disordered‘ imagination.
This completed I walked slowly toward the window, still
thinkingof my strange experience. From shadows cast by the
moonlight I inferred it must now benear thehour of midnight.
Looking absently over the well kept flower garden, out
1 Throughout the Arcane or Occult training the Neophyte
is constantly warned to be mentally alert. This mental alert-
ness can continue even during sleep if the Neophyte Wills,
with faith and without doubt, that no force in the Universe
shall be able to reach or influencehim. This Willingis a form
of Invocation, and has the same effect on the mind and person
that locking the doors of a house has against intruders. No
man's power is strong enough, even though he be a Master, to
gain entrance to a man's mind, if the Will of that mind closed
the doors by mental alertness, minus all fear.
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 165
upon thewaters of theNile,I gave a sudden start on account of
my overwrought nerves, and drew backinto theshadow of my
room. Again lookingout I found it was no trick of theimagina-
tion but a reality. Two dark-robedfigures stood as silhouettes
against themoonlit waters of theNile.
Two men engaged in earnest conversation at midnight, in
the grounds of Netros, I felt was not an ordinary occurrence.
Lookingmore closely I felt certain thatthe smaller of the men
was my attendant, Shandra. Yetthatdid not solve the mystery.
What could he be doing there at such an hour? I felt certain it
was for no good; furthermore, I resolved to watch them, for,
with my dream or vision in mind, I could only think their
suspicious presence meant ill for Nedoure.
As I impatientlywatched them the larger of the two bid
farewell to his companion, stepped into a waiting boat and a
moment later was rowing swiftlyout into theplacidstream.
The remaining one stood for some moments, watching his
departure, then turned toward the house. As the Moon shone
full in his face there could beno mistake——it was Shandra.
He glancedaround cautiously,then, keepingtin the shadow
of theshrubbery thatlined one side of the walk,made his way
slylytoward therear entrance to thepalace.If he had themeans
of entering I felt sure he would come at once to my room, and
not wishing to be found in the attitude of a spy, I threwmyself
upon the bed and lay perfectly quiet with one arm thrown
across my face, in the meantime listening for his entrance
through the rear door.
However, not a sound was heard; the silencewas becoming
oppressive. I was just about to arise and go out into thehallway,
166 NEDOURE
on a tour of investigation, when a dark form appeared against
my window.
Though watching his every movement, with a strange ap-
prehension, I lay perfectly quiet.
In themeantimetheprowlingHindu,shading his facewith
his hands, looking long and earnestly through the bars of my
window.
Finally,with his eyes riveted upon me, he made a few pe-
culiar passes withhis right hand and was gone.
'
If he intended to influenceme in any way he had made a
dismal failure, for the moment he left the window I again
leaped from my bedand was again peering forth upon thegar-
den, scanning every nook for my suspicious attendant.
Presently my search was rewarded, for, standing close in
thedark shadow of theshrubbery,he could be seen standingin
an attitude of supplication,with both arms extended, his gaze
intently directed toward the room of Nedoure.
He would stand thus motionless for a few moments, then,
while still holding the left in position, would make circular
movements with his right finger, as if writing upon the air.
To state thatmy curiosity was excited by Shandra’s peculiar
actionswould but mildlyexpress it. I longed to invoke my guru
and find out the intentions of this midnight mystic or sorcerer.
Here, however, another barrier was presented, since my
thoughtshad beenpermitted to drop from undisturbedcontem-
plation of the absolute to the material plane or ordinary femi-
nine adoration, all attempts at intercourse with the inhabitants
of thehigher planes had been failures.
I
While I was thus pondering, the object of my attention
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 167
dropped his a.rms and stepped out into the moonlight. By the
movements of his lips I concluded he was uttering either a
prayer or an imprecation, as one could form no opinion from
the expressions of his placidface.
He then bounded nimbly off toward the river, where he
uttered a shrill whistle. After awaiting what seemed to me a
considerable time, a boat containing two occupants glided up
to the landing. Without looking either to the right or left he
sprang in and was gone.
Baffled and confused by the strange events of the evening,
I retired and slept the deep, dreamless sleep that accompanies
fatigueof bothmind and body.
168 NEDOURE
CHAPTERNINETEEN
Nedoure Instructs Neophyte
I was awakened rather late thenext morning by my atten-
dant, Shandra, who appeared as calm and self-composed as
usual, showing not a trace of midnight rambles. My first
thought was to boldly confront and question him concerning
his nocturnal wanderings, but upon more mature consideration
I decided to maintain silenceand await results.
A little later a message came from Nedoure, suggesting that
I take my lesson on themorningof thatday instead of the after-
noon, as appointed, as AmasistheKinghad expressed a desire to
meet her at thecourt in theafternoon, addingthatit would give
her pleasureto introduce to his majestymy humble self.
The answer was promptly sent that all would be in readi-
ness for my lesson withinan hour, also thatI should -bedelighted
withtheprofferedhonor of meetinghis majesty,Amasis,in the
company of so distinguished a sponsor.
At the appointed hour for my instruction I was received by
Nedoure in person. The arrangements were much the same as
on the preceding day, save that on the center-table, at which
Nedoure was seated, a profusion of acaciablossoms were sub-
stituted for the lotus flowers. Byrene occupied her usual seat in
the adjoiningroom. She took no notice of my presence other
than with her pleasant little bow and smile of welcome.
Closer observation showed that Nedoure was unusually
pale. She appeared languid and, I thought, somewhat absent
minded, as she smileda mechanical welcome and pointed with
her shapely finger to a queer colored chart, arranged on a stand
at her side, saying:
170 NEDOURE
"This, my dear brother, is Ezekial's Wheel,” and, without
further prelude, entered upon the lesson as follows, refering
from time to time to some manuscripts written in Hebrew.
"Ezekial'sWheel is the algebra of life.
"It is of great importance to thestudent of occultism, as a
chart for the physicaland spiritual development of man.
Again directing my attention to the ingeniously colored
chart she continued:
"The seven unilluminatedanimal senses are shown on the
left, as Blood, Flesh, Seeing, Hearing,Taste, Touch and Smell.
“You will notice the different colors of each square corres-
ponding to the senses. Each color has an Esoteric significance,
in Harmonywith the particular facultyit represents.‘
"Red is the color of the square that indicates the blood, as
red shows themercurial properties of theblood.
"Blue corresponds to flesh,as blue indicates thesalt quality
or color, and also becauseflesh withoutblood is blue.
"Yellowcorresponds to the sense of seeing, as we see in a
yellow light.
“Green coordinates with the sense of hearing, as the green
ray penetrates opaque substances, making it possible for us to
thusobtain knowledgeof thingswe cannot see.
“Brown correspondsto taste, as it is theconglomeratecolor,
as it is byour taste of manythingswe assimilatethemto our use.
“Orangecoordinates withtouch as follows: It is made from
1 The colors as here interpreted are relative to the material
aspects and not to the Spiritual in its connection with Spiritual
or Soul development—theAwakeningof the Christos and bring-
ing it into Soul Consciousness.
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 171
mixing red and yellow, which corresponds to life and warmth,
and it is only whileour bodies are warm we obtain knowledge
by sense of touch.
"Purple corresponds to the sense of smell, as nothinggives
off perfumeuntilit beginsto decay or pass into thedarkpurple
color.
"Red and blue are required to make the purple or the
seventh,and thisbecomeththeeighthand passes into perdition.
All changes occur at the seventh.
“So when we have attained complete mastery of the senses,
passions and desires we gain the illuminationand consequent
upliftinginto thehigher plane.
"Our first illuminatedsense is power and command.
“Nature also assumes in regular order, the colors indicated
in the chart.
“When the blade of grass comes forth from the ground
it is at first yellow, then green, brown, orange and purple. It
thengoes to decay.
"The bar of steel, when first put into the fire, becomes red,
thenblue, yellow,green, then-brown, orange and finallypurple.
“It should be then plunged into the water to receive its
temper. If retained in thefire after reachingthepurple color, it
is burned and rendered worthless.
"So withour physicalbodies—ifleft too long in the animal
fires of passion thevitalityis burned out and it goes to decay.
“If, at the proper heat, we are immersed in the waters of
life, we get that illuminationand temper which enables us to
carve our way in theworld and receive thatdivinepolish, given
onlyto God's anointed creatures.”
172 NEDOURE
Risingfromher seat my preceptress added in sweet, measur-
ed tones, as thoughher thoughts were far above her surround-
.'ngs:
“The soul leaves theunityin God to make a descent into the
physical and, like the ‘Prodigal Son,’ feeds on the husks of
creation until it has attained the necessary experience. It then
beginsits reascent to God, from whence it came.”2
Afterconcludingthis brief but interesting lecture, Nedoure
remained silentfor a moment; then lookingat me witha sweet
smileof apology,she added:
"Althos,my brother, no doubt you have for the moment
entered into my own vibrations which, I am ashamed to admit,
are at present quite low, as I feel that you, too, are depressed.
No doubt our visit to the royal palace this afternoon will be
an inspiration for us both. When the Sun is two hours past
the meridian I shall await you in the rotunda.”
Murmuring a few hasty words of apology for my seeming
depression and again thankingher for the invitation to the
palace,I took my departure.
3The Spiritual self is closely connected with the Creative
self; the creative fires giving energy to the Light of the Soul.
Any thought, desire or act long continued whidr is an abuse of
the Creative energy of fire, willgraduallyburn out the Creative
abilityuntil this abilityis destroyed before Nature; God's hand-
maiden ordained it, and man then ceases to be a Creator, or
Creative associate with God—God’s servant on earth—and as
such, has committed the Biblical “unforgivable sin,” and again,
Biblically speaking, has destroyed his own Soul—“'I‘he Soul
that sinneth it shall die.” Knowledge of thisDivine Law is of
utmost importance to the young Neophyte and until he has
passed the age of sixty.
CHAPTERTWENTY
Operationof BlackMagic
When Psamittichus left the presence of Tantras he at once
benthis steps toward thepalaceof Amasis,his father.
As he reached the brazen gates between the harem garden
and the court of the great palace he dismissed his body-guard
and attendants and proceeded alone to the presence of Amasis.
The invalid monarch was found seated alone in a magnifi-
cent room, on the eastern side of the palace, the physicians,
nurses and attendants being within easy call, while upon a
balcony outside the window two dancing girls were, by their
songs and gyrations, doing their best to entertain the ailing
monarch.
The relations between Psamittichus and Amasis had never
been very cordial on account of the cold, unsympatheticnature
of theboy. Of late yea.rs—-since he had beenso much under the
control of Nevo-loo, the old priest of Ptah—his father had
reallylooked upon him with a certain amount of suspicion.
So, as he approached the old monarch after his announce-
ment, he was received withcold politeness,which had, however,
but little effect upon the cold, dreamy nature of Psarnittichus.
After a few formal inquiries concerning the health of his
father, the young prince folded his arms upon his chest and
fastened his languid eyes upon Amasis.
“I have come to you," said Psarnittichus, "to speak about a
very important matter.”
"With which I am perhaps already acquainted,” was the
king'scurt reply.
174 NEDOURE
"I can hardly believe you understand to what I refer,” said
theprince, withan incredulous smile.
“You, no doubt, desire some new concessions for the high
priestof Pt ,” said Amasis,witha compressionof his palelips.
"I come to warn you of a danger with which you are sur-
round .”
“A danger! And, pray,what may thatbe?”
"The magicians, whom you believeto be your friends, are
projectingupon you thedeleterious influenceswhich have caused
your illness, and may, if unrestricted, cause your dea .”
“My wise son, may I ask where you have learned such
important news?” said Amasis, with a somewhat disdainful
curl of thelip.
"I have learnedit from theonlyman in thekingdomwho is
competent to tell—the Hinduseer, Tantras,”theprince replied
doggedly.
"Is he a friend of Nevo-loo?” asked Amasis.
“He is. I have now done my duty; if you choose to ignore
my statement I can only remain silent.As further talk is useless
I willbidyou adieu.” Sayingwhichhe turned upon his heel and
strode away.
At the appointed time the three black magicians, Tantras
and his assistants, met in thesmallroom adjoiningthe bedroom
of Tantras.
Strange occult characters were gtaven upon the walls. Di-
rectly opposite theentrance was a fireplacein which a smolder-
ing fire of willowcharcoal was burning.Over thesecoals a large
pot was suspended from four crossed stakes. On the other side
of the room stood a large crystal, perfectly round, and glisten-
ing, in the dimly lighted room, like a huge diamond. On the
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 175
remainingside stood a large earthen jar, about half filledwith
stagnant water. In this receptaclecould be seen, moving about
in slimy confusion,snakes, toads, lizards,chameleons, and other
reptiles.
As Tantrasentered thisforbiddingchamber,followedby his
two faithfulassistants,he held in his hand a smallwaxen image,*"
about one cubitin length.Upon its headwas a crown, andaround
theneck several strands of human hair were wound. Mysterious
characters were also graven over it.
The giant sorcerer at once stepped over to a dark corner of
the room and brought forth a tripod, upon which he impaled
the statuette, and placed it over the fire so the waxen statue
tested against thewall.
At the same time his assistants began to cast ill-smelling
powders upon the fire, which caused it to flame up, casting a
lurid light over theroom and its vileoccupants.
As thesehorrid odors began to arise Tantras took a position
directly in front of the image. With arms extended and eyes
fastenedupon it, he began,whileapparentlyoblivious to all his
surroundings, to recite in a loud voice the following ritual of
blackmagic:
“Amasis, proud king, you must die. No human beingwho
stands betweenme and my desires can live.
‘'0, Prince of Darkness,whom I am happy to obey,I have
duly consecrated thisfigure to the individual whom it now rep-
resents. I now adjure thee, 0 great spirit, Majoda, Sulphae,
* This was of the nature of present day Voodooism of Haiti
and other islands and the fatherof Zombiismof a certain class
of negroes of our Southern states.
178
CHAPTERTWENTY-ONE
The Power of theWill
The time had arrived for our departure. The gailycapari-
soned camels, with the gorgeous attendants, were in waiting at
the door.
Although Nedoure was still pale and thoughtful she wel-
comed me with a pleasant smile.As we rode along we chatted
gaily about the weather and she called my attention to many
points of interest. As we saw a beautifulboar going up the Nile
she turned to me with a rathergrave expression, saying:
"A boat always reminds me of the enigma of life. The
Universe is much likea vessel launchedupon an immenseocean,
traveling constantly toward its destination.
"Eachone of thepassengers is at libertyto arrange his cabin
as he sees fit. Each one is permitted to go up to the highest
point, where they may contemplate the infinite; or one can
descend to the hold, to the immediate and the finite.
“Progress is made each day for the mass in its totality,but
each individual is at liberty to follow his own pleasure in the
circle of action which falls to his share.
"All social classes may ‘be represented upon the ship, from
a poor slave, dressed in a sack, to therich prince, who occupies
a fine cabin.
"The speed of the vessel is the same for all—the rich and
poor, thegreat and smallTheyall reachtheend of theirvoyage
at the same time.
“The motive power of the ship is unconscious, yet it drives
theship forward accordingto strict laws. ‘
'
180 NEDOURE
“The wind fills the sails and thus creates another factor
(force) which animates the whole vessel.
"One Will,however, controls the vessel and passengers——
as a whole——theWill‘ of thecaptain.
"Indifferent to the action of the individual, he keeps his
mind and eyes fixed upon the destination and guides the im-
mense vessel towards the end of the journey,giving orders to
an army of intelligenceswho obeyhim.
“The captain does not directly move the helm that guides
it, but to him is entrusted thegovernment of thevessel and its
passengers.
“Thus theUniverse may be comparedto an immense vessel
of which God has thecontrol.
“Nature is themachinery,which may be synthetizedas the
rigging, which moves the whole system forward according to
strict laws, withhumanity for theactors of theImmortal drama.
“Progress is being constantly made throughout the whole
system; yet each human beingis absolutelyfree in the circle of
his own fatality.“
1The Law of Choice or Free Will is illustrated by the
simple saying: “As ye sow so shall ye reap." This plainly as-
sures man that man may become, or attain to, anything he
pleases or desires, if he is willingto make the necessary efforts.
Man may becomea god: “And now the sons of men have become
the Sons of God, knowing both good and e
'
,” as a result of
their experiences and overcoming, or they may become sons
of perdition—the devil—by their evil desires and acts. Further-
more, the means of sowing and the “seed” is in every man's
possession, assured him by the Biblical “talents” that were
entrusted to his Soul on first leaving the heavenly spheres.
Man writes his own destiny, but in doing so, he cannot either
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 181
I desired to question her upon some parts of the above
comparison but we had now arrived at the great bronze gate
leading into the grand palace of Amasis, and according to the
custom, as she explained, we must here dismount. For my own
part, I could have wished that our journey might have been
continued forever, as a thrillof happiness, too great for words,
pervaded my whole beingwhen in the company of this beauti-
ful creature. AlthoughI felt certain that her life was dedicated
to things far above the material plane, yet I loved her and
would have been content to live forever, even as a servant, in
her company.
As we entered the great gateway the hiden splendor of a
monarch's home burst upon us. Beautiful statues and statuettes
were tastefully arranged amid gorgeous fountains and tropical
flowers. To give added charm to the scene, brilliantlycolored
birds flirted hither and thither.
As we made our way down the broad walk, Netros and
several brothers of the Magi came forward to meet us. After
embracing Nedoure and exchanging a few words with her,
Netros greeted me most cordially,attributinghis absence from
home to the pressing demands made upon him at the palace,
which had been increased, as he stated, by thestrange illness of
Amasis. The king had been attackedsome weeks previous by an
obscure maladywhich had thus far baffled thecourt physicians.
He then added in a low voice, with a significant shrug of the
shoulders:
refuse the reward of obedience, or evade the penalty of dis-
obedience. The Arcane, Esoteric and true Occult teaches him
the Law and charts the Way for him.
182 NEDOURE
“Brother, there are more planes of existence” than one,
and more diseases thanthose of the physic .”
2The Universe is governed by an exact Law, but this Law
is not constant and operates in cycles. In a sense, in simplified
terms, thiscan be compared to a stone mason—one of the oldest
artisans in the world. The mason in buildinga wall or a house,
does not lay up his stones at one placeof the wall to the height
of the wall or building,but only to a numberof feet at a place,
then proceeds to build to that height for a considerable space,
returning to where he first started, and adding a foot or two.
Why? Because if he attempted to build to a height beyond a
certain space, the fresh, uncleavened, unhardened wall would
bulge and crumble. The wall must become “set” as he proceeds
in the building.This procedure applies in all nature.
The sun does not shine continuallyfor six months,and then
permits it to rain for the rest of the year. The sun shines and it
becomes cloudy. It is cloudy and rainy and then the sun shines
once again. In sections of the country where the contrary is
true, the sun burns up all vegetation and only irrigation—a
substitute, make vegetation possible.
Man begins in ignorance and gradually, in a spiral, by
means of experience, gains knowledge until’he reaches to al-
most unbelievable heights of attainment. Unfortunately, he
also gains knowledge of evils that are destructive and in the
end his foundation, because of his evils, becomes weak, totter-
ing, while his achievements in all but Spiritual upliftment
becomes top heavy. Then his downfall follows and all he has
built up, all the technical knowledge he had attained, is lost.
Egypt is an example.
Sodom also, is an example, a few were conscious of what was
about to happen and prepared themselvesfor the day and out of
these few sprang a new race. Mankind in this day is rapidly
approachinganother such period of oblivion unless it awakens
to its danger, and if the destroying angels descend upon man-
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 183
"Cannot the brothersdiagnoseand treat the case?”" I asked.
"No doubt, my boy,” he said, with a bitter smile, "but you
little understand the intrigues of court.” Then, as if addressing
himself,he added. "Weknow thatphysicis useless in this case
unless the cause he removed. The cause must -be removed.”
We had now reached-thepalace,which was a low structure
but of vast extent. The semi-circular front was a marvel of archi-
tecture withits many massivegraven pillarsof marble.
Before the entrance stood a marble group representing the
seven suffering Souls awaiting the clemencyof Osiris.
We ascended the stairway between two rows of the royal
palaceguards.
kind as theydid in Egypt, those prepared and left will begin a
new and last race. Of this all Philosophic Initiates are fully
conscious, and are doing all in their power to help mankind as
a whole to become conscious of the fact that the individual-
and not the mass—is the captain of his own Soul, the director of
his own destiny.
“The Natura physicians in all ages have been taught that
in the elimination of disease from the body and mind, the
cause should be found and treated, and not the symptoms ex-
cept as a temporary relief. More frequently than not, disease of
body has its beginningin the mind rather than in the physical
self; and more often in the nervous center—the feelings ex-
pressed by the emotions. If these are controlled or corrected,
then the ailment is eliminated automatically.Sometimes, as in
the present instance, disease is the result of outside influences,
but these are possible only where the subject is negative, non-
resisting; most frequently because of ignorance of what is tak-
ing place, and if his receptivity can be closed, these influences
cannot enter. The Will of the subject can do this or others must
do it for him.
184 NEDOURE
Upon the portico above we were met by the Hierophants,
who chanted their hymns in a low musical voice in honor of
the arrival of our belovedpriestess.
As Nedoure approachedthedoorway,leaningupon thearm
of her father,theGrand Magus, an old hierophant,with a long,
flowing beard, stepped forward and gallantly took her other
arm.
As I was absentlyfollowingtheparty an old Magus stopped
singing and, confrontingme, said:
"Art thou a king?”
“No,” I replied, somewhat astonished.
“Art thou a priest?”
"As yet, I may say nay.”
“Art thou,then,a god?”
"Farfrom it," I replied,somewhatannoyed.
“Then it is forbidden thee to enter the sacred doorway;
yet, as I observe thou art a brother, I will conduct thee to the
proper entrance. Follow me.”
Withmy voluntaryguide in the lead we entered by another
doorway, and after winding about through the corridors and
passing throughseveral doorways, some guarded by the Greek
mercenaries, others by stalwart Nubians, bearing ponderous
shields and spears, I was led into a balcony where I found my-
self alone.
“Be seated, brother,and maintain silence. When the work
of thepriestess is complete I will call for you." With these few
'
words, and beforeI had time to thankhim, he was gone.
In front of and belowwas a chamberof royalmagnificence.
Though it was entirely deserted I had no doubt it was the
PRIES'I'ESS OF THE MAGI 185
throne-room.There, upon a dias, raised between two enormous
brazen lions, the thronecould be seen. The walls were decora-
ted withindescribablepaintings,some of battle scenes, in which
thegods took part. Behind and above the throne,painted upon
a curtain which closelyresembled thewall, was the painting of
Osiris, which I recognizedby his mantle of tiger-skin.
As my eyes were curiously wandering over the beauties of
theroom below,thecurtain behindthethronewas raised by an
invisible arrangement and Amasis, the great soldier king, mme
forth,supported ‘by two of theMagi. He walkedfeeblyand with
apparent effort. His great frame was weak and emaciated and
his noble, classic features more resembled death than life. His
brown, curling locks had now become almost white. He was
dressed in a robe of scarlet, with no visible gems in sight save
a large ring. He was as tenderly placed upon the throne as if
he had been a child. He was scarcely seated when an impatient
frown swept over his face; he spoke something to the two
Magi, who at once removed from his head the massive crown
thatseemed to irritate him. Even withthegreat change brought
about by his illness, one could easily read the strength of his
unyielding nature by his large, prominent nose and firmly set
jaw, yet, withal, one could also see justice written upon every
lineament.
Aboutthis time my eyes caughtsight of Nedoure approach-
ingbetweenher two escorts, Netros and theold hierophantwho
had joined them at thedoorway.
As thethreeapproachedhis majestytheybowed and awaited
his command. His voice was so weakened the words could not
be heard, but Nedoure stepped upon the platform, beside
Amasis, and knelt before him, whileher companions remained
186 NEDOURE
standing. As they conversed the king's eyes brightened and a
smilepassed over his face.
An instant later he glanced up in my direction. As I knew
not what was expected I felt abashed, and I hastilyturned my
eyes away,as if theglanceof his majestyhad not been observed;
but I had barely time to recover my equanimity when Netros
laid his hand upon my shoulder, saying:
“Come! His majesty requests your presence as an aid to
Nedoure. She is to answer a few important questions this after-
noon, and as she says that you have also the same familiar-
'Watlan——yourpresence willaid and protect her."
My heart bounded at the delicate courtesy shown me by
Nedoure. Murmuring a few hasty thanks, we were soon in
thepresence of themost famous monarch of his day.
But littletimewas lost in words as Amasis appeared anxious
and almost nervous in regard to the matter in hand. A‘luxuri-
ous divan had been brought forward for Nedoure. As her eyes
caught mine she motioned me near to her. As I approached I
feared the uncontrollablebeatingof my heart would betraymy
feelings for her, but she appeared not to notice my confusion.
"Duringmy journey,”said she to me, "concentratestrongly
upon Wadm.”
She then lay in a recliningposition, closed her eyes, gave a
deep sigh and remained perfectlyquiet.
The Magi thenbegan to chant a weird hymn. They began
in a very low tone, thenraised, until their trained voices echoed
and re-echoed through the vast chamber. Then their voices
lowered untiltheydied away in a musical cadence.
Netros then stepped to the side of the divan and uttered a
short prayer, calling upon the greatest potencies of the middle
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 187
plane as well as upon the Olympicangels to guard and protect
thespiritof Nedoure. When he had finished he said, addressing
the priestess in a firm voice:
"Tell us the cause of our belovedking's illness.“
At this query Amasis seemed particularly interested and
moved slightlyin his chair. Aftera short delay theanswer came
in clear tones:
“The influenceof darkness.”
“Did the inharmonious vibrations originate in the physical
plane?”
“Yes.”
"Can you tell the name of him who has the power and
perversity to thusworkin theblackart?”
As the king leaned forward to catch the reply a dark and
terriblefrown passed over his face.Instead of replyingNedoure
gasped for breath; Netros at once began to make a few passes
in front of her faceand to stroke thefair throatwithhis hands.
After the spasm relaxed Netros, who was also worried, said,
addressingAmasis:
“Your majesty,the influencemust have been a strong one,
4It has been the practice, especially in past centuries, for
those who had attained to Mastership Initiation, when con-
fronted by obscure and mysterious illnesses to select a proper
subject, placinghim into a trance and who, while in the trance
and under their guidance, would search both the ill and the
spaces, for the cause and even at times, prescribe the remedy
or procedure to be followed. This is a most intricate procedure
and is never undertaken except in extreme conditions and un-
usual circumstances such as here narrated as an example. The
method itself is not either complicated or difficult. The find-
ing of a proper subject is the problem.
188 NEDOURE
and theevildoer must be in league withtheprince of darkness.
I fear further attempts to discover him will result in harm to
the priestess, but, as nothing can compare to thy health and
safety,thequestion will be again propounded.”
Amasis remainedsilent.
Then, with a mental prayer to God for the preservation
of his child,Netros said:
"Nedoure, describethebeingswho seek injury for our king
and brother.”
The answer came with difficulty:
"Black,black, black,black, black—-thereare five of them
in the conspiracy——andtheyare of a blackcolor.”
"Enough!” said Amasis, “by the robe of Osiris, Nedoure is
right. Each night, in my visions, I have been attackedby black
men who are strangers in our land. One question more-—what
meanethCambyses?”
“Tell us,” said Netros, with a deep breathof relief, ‘What
doeth Cambyses?”
In low, musical accents the replycame:
"Cambyses, ruler of Persia, speaks now with two dark-
haired men,” and thefair seer paused.
“You can hear their discourse,” said Netros, in a voice of
thunder.“Repeatwhat is said.”
“Cambyses says, ‘How soon can the Irakajemi horse be in
readiness?’ ‘Before the next full moon, 0 Light of Asia,’ is the
reply.
"Cambyses now frowns and dismisses the -two generals, as
he says: ‘I commandthatyou have all thehorses of my kingdom
in readiness before Mars has passed Al-sheratan. And you,’ said
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 189
he, turning to the other officer, ‘must have at the same time all
of thearchers from Laristan to Azerijan.We must lose no time
in matching upon the insolent, priest-ridden ruler of Egypt.
Also tell my -brother, Bartja, he must take personal charge of
the catapults'.”
Afterthus giving the conversation, as it was then occurring
many stadias away over land and sea, Nedoure remained silent.
“Proceed," said Netros.
“They are now gone; and Cambyses goes to seek Atossa.”
Amasis then said:
“Ask if Cambyses will make war upon Amasis?”
The question being repeated by Netros, the answer came
in a firm voice:
«No,»
This seemed to bothpleaseand satisfy theking,who smiled
and gave thesign of
190
CHAPTERTWENTY-TWO
The Ritual of Distress
After the seance at the palace I did not see Nedoure for
several days, as her companion brought a message stating that
thepriestesswas somewhatindisposedbut hoped to soon resume
my instruction.
One afternoon, however, Netros came hurriedly into my
room.
“Althos, I desire a few words with thee—-«at present the
Brotherhoodare confrontedwitha grave task."
"Be seated, Father,"I replied,"I am at your service in every-
thing."
“In order that thou mayest understand." he continued, “I
willspeak freely with thee. The night followingNedour’s visit
to thepalaceshe received important knowledgefrom the plane
of Records. The Brotherhood is now confronted and opposed
by all thecombinedforces of evil.
“Our sacred order has ever been opposed and maligned by
thepriesthoodof Pub. We have at various times held and lost
the favor of the reigning monarch.
“Amasishavingbeen in his earlier days a soldier and having
risen by thefortunes of war to thethrone,after his success and
prosperityhad beenpredicted by our astrologers, has alwayshad
a kindlyfeelingtoward us, and has of late received theinitiation
as far as theEpoprai.
“Within the last moon he has been wasting away with a
strange malady. His physician, to whom he has entrusted his
healthand life, is also a pagan priest. Perhaps, had he exercised
192 NEDOURE
his own Will in the matter he would have called upon the
Magi for aid. He was prevented from so doing by the queen
who receives advice from his son, Psamittichus, who is in turn
but thepuppet of Nevo-loo.”
“Strange, thatthe kingshould show such weakness," I said.
“But wait, brother,” said Netros, with a deprecating wave
of thehand, “youhave heard but a smallpart of my story. Three
moons past a dark,evil and terrible man came from the East.
If I mistake not, he comes from thy home, the valley of the
Punjab. He is known by the name of Tantras. He is said to be
in league with the Evil One,” said Netros, lowering his voice
to a whisper.
"This powerful sorcerer,” continued he, “came to our land
on some secret mission. He was at once received by Nevo-loo
and is now, withseveral companions, installed in thetemple of
Ptah. This man claims to read the future, prepare charms and
potent talismansfor theaccomplishmentof all evilpurposes.
“
’Tis he who has projected evil entities and poisonous
fluidsto our belovedand unsuspectingking.
“Though I know not why, I fear sorely for my daughter,
Nedoure. As one in whom I have great confidenceand to whom
I bear a father'slove, I charge thee to guard her, by night and
by day,withall thypowers, physicaland spiritual.
"In the meantime, as I came to inform you, there will be
a meeting of the Brotherhood to-night at the Grand Pyramid.
As themoon rises a boat willbein readinessto conveytheMagi
from Sais. Our most powerful members from all parts of the
valley will be there. Thou mayest go; but I cannot leave
Nedoure.
“Learn thisritual so thoumayst repeat it from thymemory
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 193
alone. Put all thystrengthand sincerity into it. The same peti-
tion will go forth from seven times seven hundred of the Magi
in all lands,and, you may rest assured, theforces of evil cannot
stand."
So saying he handed me the dread ritual of distress.‘ With
my promise that nothing should come between it and my
strongest effort thegood old man was gone.
That same night found me with about three score of the
brotherhod standing in the shadow of the great pyramid of
Cheops. In latitude 30°,in the center of the Nile delta, stood
this imperishable handiwork of bygone builders. The Great
Pyramid, according to the traditions of the Magi, was erected
under the instructions of the Grand Magus, Melchizedek. By
superhuman knowledgethe spot of its site was selected in lati-
tude 30° north. The figure was thatof a square pyramid, care-
fully oriented. The builders employed for their unit of length
the sacred cubit, corresponding to the twenty-millionthpart
of the earth’s polar axis. The side of the square base is equal
to justso many of thesesacredcubits as thereare days and parts
of a day in theyear. By divine intuition thewise architects were
1Unbelieved by even many of first and second degree
Initiates, there is such a ritual in the hands of a number of
High Initiates and in the secret Archives. It has never been
betrayed for the reason that it is of no value to the person.
Its secret is guarded and protected in this manner: As long
as any man, however advanced an Initiate, would employ the
Ritual in his own behalf,even to save his own life, it would not
be entrusted to him. When it is finally placed in his care, he
would no longer even thinkof making use of it other than to
help anotherunder thecircumstances noted. I personallyvouch
for the truth of this statement.
194 NEDOURE
also enabled to square the circle and symbolized their victory
over this problem by making the pyramid’s height bear to the
perimeterof thebase theratio which theradius of a circle bears
to thecircumference.Moreover, thegreat processional period-
in which theearth's axis gyrates like that of some mighty top
around the perpendicular to the ecliptic—was communicated
to the builders with a degree of accuracy far exceeding any
previous human calculations. What more fitting place could
have been selected for this important meeting?
Here were gatheredtogetherthearmy of right and brother-
ly love to combat the united strengthof sorcery and darkness.
Even so, thisgreat battle could not be a decisive one--from the
earliest times of the Golden Age to the time when our earth
shall become a blazing sun the struggle has and ever will
continue.’
With all the surging strife in the bosoms of men the full
moon cast her rays alike over the land and over the peaceful
bosom of the Nile.
Presently in line with the bright shining star Alpha Dra-
conis, a door was opened in the side of the great man-created
mountain. In single filethe brothersentered the slant descend-
ing passage, which terminated after a time in a great circular
chamber.The lengthof this passage, I afterward learned, was
over two hundred cubits. As we entered the chamber I was
surprised to find it well ventilatedby a cool draft of refreshing
air. Every contingency had been well provided for by the
builders.
9The eternal reaction of good against evil; right in con-
stant conflict with wrong; the maintaining of equilibrium.
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 195
Around the sides of this circular room my eyes fell upon
a number of sarcophagi. This forcible reminder of the dead
causeda feelingof sadness to steal over me. I beganto feel weak,
but no seats were to be found in this underground room.
Afterthemeetinghad beenopened in theusual way I looked
around and saw a sight thatcaused the blood to freeze in my
veins and my hair to stand upon end—1't was therbader of tbe
departed?’
3 The “Shadow” of thosewho had attained and stood guard,
mentioned earlier in the notes. Only those who in the earth
life had attained to a certain Degree and whose Souls were pos-
sessed by a mighty love for a great Ideal, would be able to
recognize others of like qualities and desire.
196 NEDOURE
CHAPTERTWENTY-THREE
The Strengthof theWill
There silent and motionless stood seven spiritual figures,
erect in their ethereal costume. They looked much as though
theywere reflections of theserious lookingbrothers who stood
in circular lines around the room. It was as if protecting forces
from other realms had suppliedsendnels for this serious assem-
blage of theworld's wisest men.
Thusover eachsarcophagus stood theshade of a Past Grand
Magus whose physical remains may have been laid to rest
centuries before.
Strange! no one save myself seemed to have observed the
sad-facedMasters of by~gone lodges.
Every eye among the brothers was directed toward the act-
ing Grand Magus, who had for the time assumed the chair of
Netros.
At this moment theybegan to sing the opening ode, com-
posed of inspiring words and salient truths.
When it was finished thelast stanza was repeated in far-off
tones of such exceeding sweetness and harmony that every eye
was at once turned to seek the source of the beautifulechoed
refrain.
At thesame instant the Grand Magus noticed theunbidden
but welcome guests and advanced to the altar, giving the Mas-
ter’s sign, which was duly and gracefully answered by the
returned shades of theImmortals.
As he remained standing,withhis gaze riveted upon them,
his face blanched to a paleness which rivaled their own blood
less countenances.
198 NEDOURE
His knees smote togetherand his body trembledand swayed
as if he was about to fall; however,witha strong effort of Will,
he was enabled to suppress his emotions and call out in a voice
yet tremulous:
"Welcome! Thrice welcome, brothersfrom a higher realm!
It is with joy we welcome thee for thineown sake; but as thy
visit has ever presaged illfor some exalted brother,we can but
receive thewarningwithill-concealedsadness."
As answer to his remarks, naught was given but a grave
bow from all, withmilitaryprecision.
Collecting himself and casting his expressive eyes over the
white-robedassemblage,he beganin a voice somewhatagitated:
“Brothers of the Pentagram and Knights of Wisdom: Ye
have been called together to repress a grave and threatening
danger. The fair valleyof Egypt has beeninvaded by evil-mind-
ed sorcerers.
“Even now theyseek thedeathof our beloved brotherand
monarch, Amasis, the overthrowof our sacred Order, and per-
chance the destruction of our fair and honored priestess, Ne-
doure.
"Far into the night, when the Moon is directing her nega-
tive influencesto motherearth,we, as a body,withno covering
but the canopy of heaven, and God as our guide, have been
wont to watch the starry firmament that we might know the
Master’s Will; or, down in our subterranean laboratories, we
have sought to unfold thehidden laws of Nature by thescience
of Alchemy, or been engaged in other occult labors, we have
little suspected thatthehosts of darknesswere marshalingtheir
forces and pouring out upon our loved ones the poisonous
emanations of the evil dead, born ‘by ill-formed, misguided
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 199
elementals who do their nefarious bidding. But we are now
aroused, and shall henceforth not only oppose them but, with
help from the Great Creator, who is ever on the side of right,
we shall overcome and crush them. What say you, brothers?"
"By thehelp of God, we shall crush them,”came the deep
guttural reply,as from one man.
“We shall crush them,” was the low echo of the spectral
Masters.
Wiping his brow theGrand Magus resumed:
"Whileour sacred teachings forbid enterprises of revenge,
we are ever opposed to evil-doers, whether they direct their
efforts against ourselves or others.
"Evil natures, like wicked spirits, always seek the cover of
darkness for their cowardly attacks, but we shall not alone
watch them with our spiritual eyes for a committee shall be
appointed this night to watch their every movement by night
and by day."
Loweringhis voice he concluded:
"We shall now be pleased to hear from any among us as
to the best method of procedure against the evil which now
confronts us.”
Several membersarose, offeringas many different remedies
for theevil,until an old Magus, with longhair, flowingbeard,
and eyes pteternaturallybright, arose and said in a low, serious
tone:
“Master, I thinkthe present danger of such grave import
that our sacred body would be justified in making use of the
great crystal.”
“Aye! Aye!” came from the score of throats.
200 NEDOURE
"Our honorable brother from the south hath suggested
well,” said the Grand Magus. “Is it agreed?”
"It is,” was theresponse from everyone present. .
At thistheMaster stepped forward to thealtar and pointed
his finger upward to thedimlylighted arch in thecenter of the
vaulted chamber.
“Lookbrothers,behold,and concentrate. Let theforce of thy
combined thoughtdraw into the mystic fire crystal the images
of the sorcerers wheresoever they be, and in whatsoever part
of theworld theymay lurk,thatwe may beholdtheir evilfaces
and bring to light their hidden deeds. We will first send forth
a silentprayer to theGrand Adonay,Eloim, Arieland theGreat
Jehovam, whilethetemple incense is beinglighted.”
For a short time all remained silent in concentrated prayer
while their eyes were raised upward toward the center of the
ceiling. At a sign from the Grand Magus the stewards lit the
censors and supplied themwithincense. As the fumes ascended
a pale light became visible at the point of concentration over-
head. It was not unlike a thincloud of illuminatedvapor, which
grew brighter and brighter until it assumed theappearance of a
glowing ball of fire. For an instant it glowed thus, then disap-
peared. At the direction of the Grand Magus a brotherstepped
to a niche in the side of the circular wall and began to turn a
smallwheel. As it revolved thegreat crystal began to descend.
Down it came until it stood suspended in the air at the height
of a man’s head. Lookingclosely,I observed a small silver cord
to which it was attached. Turning my eyes again toward the
crystal, dark shadows could be plainlyseen moving therein.
Then, amid an almost breathless silence, five dark figures
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 201
with oriental features and costumes, came into full view; they
stood over two prostrate forms.
The Grand Magus, who had approached the crystal from
the east, gave a deep groan plainlyheard by all. In a sad voice
he exclaimed:
"Our Master and our King!” Then, in a firmer tone he
added, "Hold well to thethought,brothers.”
The scene in the crystal then changed back again to the
luminous cloud. This presently became transparent when all
thepomp and grandeurof a king's funeral becamevisible. This
was succeeded by a scene where two dark forms stood over the
form of a dying man. Looking closely the Grand Magus sadly
exclaimed:
"Nen:os!”
At this there was a slight movement among the brothers,
but, at a warning sign from the Grand Magus, they quickly
observed their former silence.
The two dark figures then turned and crept stealthily
towards a bedroomin which lay the beautifulform of a young
girl. However,before theyhad reached her side, some guardian
angel or intuitional warning aroused her, and, as she sat erect,
we could plainlydiscern thefeatures of Nedoure.
The agony of thatmoment can never bedescribed. I longed
to rush to her rescue and tear her from the threateneddanger.
As they continued to draw nearer I made an involuntary step
forward but was recalled to my surroundings by the Grand
Magus, who, without turning his eyes from the terrible scene,
held aloft his finger for silence.
As the bold priestess sat erect, staring fixedly at the
intruders, one could see that neither feat nor alarm possessed
202 NEDOURE
her. She appeared calm, yet upon her facewas a look of awful
determination. She extended her right arm toward them
warningly,and her lips moved as though she were addressing
them. But of no avail! With drawn knives they still slowly
approached her.
Suddenly—1ike twin flashes of lightning escaping from
heaven—two streams of fire were seen to leave her great,
lustrous eyes, and thetwo blackmarrauderslay motionless upon
thefloor.
The scene again changed, as before, with the intervening
luminous cloud or vapor. Before our view there now appeared
grand palaces, in the midst of which could be seen a flower-
decked, artificiallake. The peculiar floralbridgeat once brought
to my memory the palace of the Maharaja of Kashmir. This
was confirmed when the picturesque Jhelum appeared in the
distance, pursuing its tortuous course through the incomparable
valleyof my birth.This beautifullandscapeviewwas supplanted
with what was undoubtedlyan allegorical emblem of existing
conditions.
The Maharaja, whose features were indelibly impressed
upon me from childhood,was the subject of the emblematic
view. Chained at the bottom of a dismal pit, lookingwistfully
upward toward the moon, thisdegenerate ruler appeared, with
the hard, merciless lines of his scheming face brought out in
bold relief; it also bore the expression of a hope to be realized
at any cost, and, as he wistfullycontemplated the moon, 10! in
the moon could be seen Nedoure.
When this last scene vanished the great crystal assumed a
bright red color, which gave it the appearance of a huge drop
of arterial blood. For some time the Magi continued to contem-
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 203
plate it in silence,when, to thesurprise of all, thedimly-burning
lamps were suddenly extinguished and, at the same instant, a
loud rap in the east called thelodge to order.
If the unexpected rap was a surprise, a greater one was in
store for us as, on looking toward the east, our real Grand
Magus, Netros, stood there calmly regarding us, while the
brilliant aura surrounding him constantly changed and inter-
changed colors, giving to him a grand and luminous auric
envelope such as is seldom seen bymortals. In the midst of this
grandtatwicexpressionof Nature’s hidden laws thepale, corpse~
like features of Netros calmly smiled on us.
No one was greater surprised than our Grand Magus of the
convocation, who started toward the raised dias. He had made
but a few steps forward, however, when Netros held aloft his
ethereal arms, making the sign which commanded instant
attention. Although somewhat startled, this well-trained body
of men stood silent,motionlessand expectant. The shades of the
seven Past Grand Masters stood like rigid statues, their only
sign of life being the phosphorescent glow they gave forth,
which was pale indeed beside the brilliantemanations of our
belovedMaster. .
Netros was the first to break the profound silence that
followed. Speaking in a clear though strange and unnatural
voice, he thus addressed us:
“Brothers, in the midst of life we are in death.‘For those
1 To be born is to begin to die; to die is (maybe) the
beginningof life. In thehighest order of life thisLaw operates.
Hidden withinthis circle in which the beginnngdove-tails into
the end and theend into the
204 NEDOURE
ignorant of the great laws of evolution and equity Death is
contemplated with fear and horror. To the atheist it is the end
of all things; they look forward to complete annihilationas a
welcomeevent, bringingwithit peace,rest, andeternal oblivion.
"But the members of this grand and glorious God-loving
Order known, beyondperadventure, that there is a life beyond
the grave, proven by theperiodical return of our great Masters.
So well are we acquainted with God's excellent provision for
the immortal and imperishable part of man, that we are per-
mitted to hold commerce, even after thegreat change.
“But man's immortality should not, nor does it rest upon
mystery which onlyfew have attempted to solve, hence is known
to onlya few.
Man, returning to earth and carrying with him a greater
or lesser burden of Karma that must be paid before he can
be free, is compelled, and should be anxious, to meet the con-
ditions necessary to pay his indebtedness to the Divine Law
and his own Soul.
This payment takes many forms: misforttmes, sorrow, suf-
fering, sickness and many others. However, he is given the
choice of methods of payment. He may do this by a passive
acceptance. Or, what is by far the better method: (a) by recog-
nizing the Law and its operation and by making every effort
to free himself from all thatis undesirable in his nature, trans-
muting the evils, weaknesses and carnal desires into those of
the beatitudes: Love and Affection and all of their various
attributes.All men must ultimatelydo thisor beof thechaff that
will be destroyed. Those on the Path,Acolytes and Neophytes,
willbemost anxious to do thisin order to gain theirfreedom. (b)
by the doing of goodness and kindness to their fellow men in
whatever way they can, to help them gain the knowledge that
will also free them. These procedures may go hand in hand.
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 205
personal experiencealone. Why should man—who,in his most
perfect state, is naughtbut an insignificantatom—-standproudly
erect and challengehis Creator for proof of the unknown?
"Man is composed of thephysical,mental and divine,which
gives him a body for each plane. Yetthereare thosein darkness
who willfullyclose theireyes to the light of truth and refuse to
develop aughtbut their physical bodies. The Magi stand forth,
as perfected creatures, devoting their earth-life to the develop-
ment of the trinity.
“The earth is surrounded by a great vitalized sea, known
only to the profane and uninitiated as atmosphere, but the
brothers know it contains the mysterious principle of life,
without beginning and without end, proceeding from the
Absolute.”
The Great Mystery of Life
To know and live in harmony with the Divine Law is
actually included in the foregoing; Magi and other Initiates
have become conversant and teach an advanced method known
to but few of even the highest of the Initiates. This is, in ad-
dition to living the Law, to also form in mind an ideal of what
theymost desire to bein theirnext incarnation.This not merely
implies a wish; a desire to be thought of now and then, but a
buildingwithintheself of the beingtheywant to be on return-
ing; the profession or occupation they desire to Master and fol-
low. This is one of the greatest of the Occult Arcanums now
taught to all advanced Neophytes, enabling them to actually
began their next life's journey here and now.
‘-‘Almost from the very beginning of instructions the
modern Neophyte is taught how to not only draw in with the
breath, these forces of life and power, but also how to retain
and make use of them. The first and lesser of these forces has
been known as Prana in the past and is still so designated, but
the Western Neophyte is taught that it is the Lesser Light and
206 NEDOURE
"When theanimal organismreached thatstage of develop-
ment called man, the Creator found it a suitable temple for a
part of his immortal principle, which is called the Soul. This
organism—the human body—is most perfectly adapted to its
end. It is moulded to meet therequirements of life. Though it
begins in darkness on the lowest plane it may ascend to the
highest. Immortalitywill be given thosewho deserve it.
"Those who develop the Soul willbe able, when the inevit-
able change comes, to go forth into other realms as a well-de-
veloped entity.”
"Vibrationis the principlewithwhich theCreator connects
not only this universe and all its planetary inhabitants, but
also themyriads of otherworlds and universes yet unknown to
man.
“The life principleof each individual is for him an immut-
able book of record. Yet few can live so correct a life as to
possess it unsullied. Every wicked word, thoughtor deed tends
to discolor it.
"Earthlydesires are thegreatest barriers to man's progress.
By permittinghimselfto live whollyin thelower animalnature,
is essential in his developmentso thathe will be prepared later
to dove-tail, as it were, this lesser Light into the Greater or
Ineffable Light of the Ancient Greater Mysteries. Without
theseforces Soul Consciousness and PhilosophicInitiationwould
be impossible.
3 This is thebeginningand end, and theAlpha and Omega
of all Spiritual development, of Initiation in any form. Even
the in-breathingof the forces in the Air and the development
of the Lesser and Greater Light has this constantly in view.'All
instructions and practices aim to the accomplishment of this
Higher development of Spiritual exaltation.
PRIESTBSS OF THE MAGI 207
man separates himself from the pleasures and glories of a
higher life.
"As you know, the liberatedSoul of an upright man cannot
leave the earth's sphere save by means of the Sun's rays, I was
permitted to indulge my strongest desires, which were, first,
thesafetyof Nedoure, and next, to meet you again, my brothers,
to bidyou a long farewell. The great change came to Netros in
the night; of its details I may not speak, yet I will say that, a
moment after the blow had been struck, a change came upon
them,as it will to all thewicked,more terrible thantongue can
tell or humans conceive.
“The time for my departure has come. From my abode in
the Sun I shall continue to send to you my feeble aid until, by
the eternal cyclic laws of the Absolute,I am again permitted
to extend the grip of fellowship to future generations of our
Order.
"My escort awaits me,” said he, with a wave of the hand
toward thephantomMasters over thesarcophagi; thenextending
his hands in benediction,he said:
"Farewell, Farewell.”
In a low tone theword was echoed again and again. Then,
together, the spell-bound brothers cried out, like the mighty
roar of the breakers upon the beach:
“Farewell,Masters! Farewell!”
There was a noise like the rustling of wings, when our
unusual lights disappeared and we were left in darkness, and
then a cool draught of air swept through the underground
chamber.
Afterthe lamps were again lighted the Grand Magus made
a few briefremarksin which he explainedto theyounger mem-
208 <
NEDOURE
bers that the spirits of departed Masters usually returned to
herald thedeathof some important officer in theOrder. He also
caused theMagi to repeat after him thepowerful distress ritual
(whichhad beengiven me thateveningby Netros) and further
instructed them to repeat the same at a certain hour dailyuntil
we should meet again.
These and a few other matters were hastilyarranged,when
we all decided to return to Sais in a body to inquire into the
death of Netros and attend to the safety of Nedoure, our be-
reaved High Priestess.
CHAPTERTWENTY-F
OUR
Evilends in Violence
On theafternoon followingtherites of blackmagic partici-
pated in by Tantras and his two assistants, Gunga and Mohat,
he appeared agitated, a state rarely known to this composed
discipleof darkness.Instead of his usual serenity,Tantras paced
nervouslyto and fro in frontof theraised dias and mysteriously
adorned curtain in his reception room. With hands clasped
behindhim andhead bowed as if in deep meditation,he walked
hurriedly with long, swinging strides, back and forth, like a
wildbeastrestive in thecircumscribed space of captivity.
The air was heavy with the sickening odors of horrid
incense, but the giant sorcerer paid but little heed to it, or, in
fact, to any of his surroundings. That he was irritated was still
further indicated by the impatient manner in which he threw
backhis red silkenwaist from time to time.
Finally he came to an abrupt halt in front of the dragon
pillar,and, after casting a quick glance about the room, gave
three rapid strokes to a silver bell attached thereto. While
awaiting theresults of his summons he mused aloud:
“By great Beelzebub, what can such delay mean? The
Maharaja comes before the next quarter of the moon, Amasis
is yet alive, and Psamittichus—poordupe—is still powerless to
aid me. Ah! when the crown is on his head, then will I have
another king at my feet. Then with my master, the Black
Prince,behindme, how can I fail to obtain my object? No! no!
failure cannot come to the Tantrika!”
As he uttered the last words he clenched his mighty fists
212 NEDOURE
CHAPTERTWENTY-FIVE
Magicand Occult Science
Whilewe were movingslowlyover theplacidwaters of the
Nile on our homeward journey to Sais, where sad conditions
awaited us at thehouse of Netros, in view of thesad but inspir-
ing events of theevening,a gloom had settled upon the party.
Some sat upon the prow and gazed dreamily at the rippling
shadows of the moonlight; others were gathered together in
small groups sustaining desultory conversations in subdued
tones. As theboat was borne slowlyforward by a gentle breeze,
three loud raps were heard which at once attracted the attention
of all. Thesesounds had emanatedfrom thewand of a venerable
Magus, who called out in a clear voice:
"Brothers,as no one knows better than our sacred band the
value of time, what sayest thouto a friendlytalk and lecture by
our newly appointed Grand Magus? Owing to the unforseen
events of the evening, together with the special nature of our
business, a lack of time prevented us from receiving our usual
instructions. Are you one and all willing?”
"Yea!Yea!"came from scores of voices.
At this theGrand Magus came forward, saying:
“I thankyou more than words can express for this exhibi-
tion of your studious natures which prompted the invitation.
My subject will be Magic, as that will necessarilybring us to
theconsiderationof God, Man and Nature.”
At thistheMagi beganto move nearer and seat themselves
about him on the deck. Plunging at once into his subject, the
Magus began:
“Magicdiffers from Occult Science in so far thattheformer
214 NEDOURE
is the practical demonsnation of those forces which are theo-
reticallyexplainedby the latter. Magic-depends mainlyupon a
stronglydeveloped Will,as theMiddle Plane is filledwithmy-
riads of entities,‘ insensible alike to good or evil, who respond
to the stronglydeveloped Will of man.
“In order to develop the Will to its highest possibilities,
rigorous exercises are necessary. At the same time the latent
powers are most readilydeveloped by strict attention to diet.
The food must be properly selected, and both mind and body
trained.
“Many of you have arrived at that point where you can
cause a flower to spring up, from a seed implanted in earth, to
the astonishment of the ignorant or profane. But we know it
is far from beinga miraculous feat. By means of our concentra-
tion of Will and a developed body we are enabled to project
upon theseed the animatingforce much quicker and in greater
quantities than would occur ordinarilyin a much longer time.
Yet we could not cause a stone to grow. For this latter feat
would beindeed a miracle.
“The earth is surrounded by a great vitalized sea of life,
constantly renewed by light, heat and electricity from the Sun.
The earth receives electrical energy from the Sun and converts
it into magnetism,which is the force that sustains both vege-
table and animal life. By practicingcertain breathsyou are able
to draw into your individual bodies a vast amount of magne-
tism. Having learned how to draw in a large supply of this
force, it is then a matter of Will-force to project it again,
wherever and whenever you will.
1 The most comprehensive exposition of this Occult con-
cept is to be found in ZANONI,by Lord Bulwer Lytton.
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 215
"Magic, then, results from the action of the conscient Will
upon thevitalizedsea in which we live.
“All human beingshave a certain amount of Will, but one
of thegreat objects of life is to learn how to use it.
“Man is divided into seven principles, but, for the present,
we will consider the three great divisions only—the Physical,
Mental and Divine.
“The embryonic man begins with a circle, at the top of
which is located intelligenceand sensibility;the othersensations
are on the lower side. All throughlife thewell-regulated being
preserves his equilibrium,whilehis less fortunate brotherallows
thehigher and lower principlesto becomereversed.
“The most important fluid in the -body for magical work
is the nervous fluid, without an ample supply of which no
phenomenawill appear.
"When one begins the development exercises, all excitants
and stimulants should be avoided, as they liberate the nervous
fluidtoo rapidly.
“It should be the aim of each of us to keep constantly in
our bodies an ample supply of the nervous fluid, if we would
have strength to send our influence to the very center of the
Middle Plane.”
We now turned a bendin the river from whence the lights
of Sais could be plainly seen, which were, however, few and
scattered, as it was now past thehour of midnight. Observing
the anxietyof the Magi in regard to Netros, the Grand Magus
continued his remarks for a few moments. As he retired all
became active in theirpreparations to leave.
A little later, led by the Grand Magus, we arrived at the
massive stone entrance to the palace of Netros. In answer to
216 NEDOURE
several loud knocks the door was cautiouslyopened by Byrene,
themaid of Nedoure. Her expressive eyes were bedimmedwith
C6218.
CHAPTER TWENTY-SIX
Evil Personified
I was among thefirst to enter and eagerly questioned By-
rene, -but in her state of extreme nervousness no intelligible
replies could be received, but the ghastly pallor of her face
showedplainlythatshe hadpassed througha most tryingordeal.
Becoming impatient with her gesticulations and fearing
lest illhad befallentheunconscious object of my love, I rushed
past her, intending to first seek my own room, where I hoped
to find Shandra. But I had taken a few steps onlywhen I stum-
bled upon the -body of a man lying face downward upon the
tiledfloor. My exclamationsof horror at once drew around me
a number of the Magi, who were shocked to behold the life-
less body of Netros.
Although, by the reflections in the crystal, all had antici-
patedthedeathof Netros, yet fewwere prepared for theghastly,
sickening sight. Great gaping wounds could be seen upon his
faceand throat,whilehis body lay in a large pool of coagulated
blood.
Not knowing what further horrors awaited us, I rushed at
once to theroom of Nedoure. Findingthedoor ajar I called to
her in a voice strangely unlike my own. As no reply came I
waited no longer, but under stress of excitement and not realiz-
ing theimport of my actions,I hurriedlyentered her apartments.
There upon the floor of her sitting room, in which I was wont
to take my lessons, lay the huge dark forms of two repulsive-
lookingHindusof thePali type.
Withoutbestowinga second glanceupon them,and follow-
the promptings of my beatingheart, I rushed into the sacred
218 NEDOURE
bedroom of thePriestess of the Magi. In calmer moments such
an indiscretionwould not have beendreamed of.
There, lyingupon thebed,withher beautifulfaceupturned
and as motionless as deathitself,I beheld her statelyfigure.
‘'0, my darling!” said I,rushing forward and seizing her in
in my arms. "Speak to me! Speak! My love! My life!” Talking
thus, in the insane anguish of my sorrow, I felt strong hands
laid upon me and myself violently torn away. Recovering, I
found myself confronted by the stern and now awful faces of
theMagi. The GrandMagus stepped beforeme, withhis strong,
burning eyes fastened full upon mine, and said in a voice of
thunder:
"What meanest thou? Pretender to sanctity,student of the
higher knowledge-—thoupratest gliblyof love,when thineonly
love is consecrated to God by the vows of our Order. Thou
knowest full well thepenalty for layingthyunsanctified hands
upon the body of our sacred Priestess! Yet thou hast dared
pollutewith thyvilelips she who is devoted by both body and
Soul to God alone!"
As I looked around upon the stolid, passionlessmen before
me I cared not for my fate. In my frenzied apprehension for
Nedoure my brain reeled, all becamedarkand I knew no more.
Two days later I awoke from my unconscious ravings to
find by my bedsidethe cold, relentless face of one of theMagi,
who had been left to guard or watch over me. A few moments
later Shandra, my attendant, passed along the walk outside the
windowand gave me a look and sign meant for encouragement,
but no such construction could be placed upon the gaze of the
old Maguswho was sternlyregardingme.
He sat for a short time thus when he extended his arms
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 219
toward the doorway leadinginto thehall, and, closing his eyes,
put forth a strong mental effort which I sensed as a communica-
tion to the brothers thatI had awakened. Before he had com-
pleted his effort of thoughttransference, the tread of footsteps
could be heard approaching,and six of theMagi filedinto the
room. My guard rose up and joined themas theystood, forming
a semi-circle about my bed. Without further formality,one of
themspoke in a calm but unrelentingtone:
"Alrhos, for that is thename conferred with thy initiation,
it grieves us much to behold thee fallen from the high moral
eminence which gave theepreference and the name of Althos,
which means high and unapproachable.
"Thyheinous crime surelydemandsdeath,but as we believe
not in taking thatwhich is thegift of the great Creator, it has
been decreed to send thee forth alone. Furthermore, thyname
and crime shall be read aloud at each meeting of our Order for
seven consecutive moons; and when thou hast laid aside thy
mortal frame, there shall be graven over thy resting-place,
‘Here Lies a SacrilegiousOne.’
“Thoumayestgo fromhence when it suits theebest. Hence-
forth all brethren are forbidden to speak with thee. Vale,
Althos! Thou art now dead to those who loved thee most
dearly.”
Weak and bewilderedthough I was, and never at any time
by nature aggressive, I shrank from answering with apparently
useless words. But,urged forwardby an irresistibleinner prompt-
ing,I sat erect and spoke in a passionatevoice, as follows:
“My alleged crime is but theoffense of love, and love is the
life of God and the universe. If by answering the call of this
great vehicle of man’s happiness my Soul soared into such high
220 NEDOURE
places thatthe laws of men were shocked, then in the sight of
men I am truly a criminal.The sacredOrder of the Magi holds
forth as its most precious precept, Love for theAbsolute; if in
cultivation of life's grandest sentiment I have deigned also to
love one of God's most perfect creatures, no further reply is
required, for by my own admission I stand convicted. Love re-
turned, is thenectar of both gods and men, and fortunate is he
who can partake thereof.If theprice is banishment and suspen-
sion from this honorable body, I accept thedecree, feeling that,
as I go forth,theAll-SeeingEyewillstillgive to me a glanceof
love, and sustain me witha strengthgreater thanmen.”
As I finishedmy eyes sought thefacesof eachin turn, where
I plainly read their thought that I had become mentally un-
balanced.
After a short silence the words, “We have spoken,” fell
from the lips of their leader. Then, with bowed heads and
serious countenances, theymarched slowlyfrom theroom.
Left alone, I rapped loudly for Shandra who soon appeared,
smilingserenelyas ever. A few hastyorders were given for pack-
ing togethermy few effects, which were to be sent to Gizeh.
It was a sad moment of my life as I left the house which
had been the scene of my greatest happiness as well as my
greatest misery. From my earliest boyhoodI had looked forward
to the time when I should be ordained as a priest and occupy
an honored position among the Magi—but all was now lost. I
longed to know what Nedoure would think of me when she
heard of my rash act, which would, no doubt, pain as well as
surprise her. This was certainly a sad and miserable ending of
my high and noble ambitions.As I pondered over the will of
fate, a bitter,reckless resentment arose in my bosom, which but
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 221
added to my misery as I went forth. For a moment I felt as if
I must see her once more and explain all, yet more serious
consideration showed me thefutilityand even the impossibility
of such a wish.
As the Sun was sinkingto rest over the Lybianrange I left
the house of Netros, a wanderer upon the face of the earth. I
had traveled but a short distance when it becameapparent that
thewholepopulacewas in general mourning.Inquiry developed
thefactthatAmasiswas dead. ThoughI had often heard of the
good deeds of Amasis and his friendlyprotection for theMagi,
at this moment my own troubles were too great to permit of
great concern whetherAmasiswas on thethroneof Egypt or his
weak and superstitious son, Psamittichus.
Thus I wandered about thestreets, passingmany people but
seeing them not. FinallyI wandered into thegrove of Hathor,
which was located on the banks of the Nile, a little north of
thegreat temple of Phtah. Seating myself on one of the rustic
benches I tried to formulate some plan for the future, but all
was an utter blank,my brain refused to formulate a singleidea.
222 ‘
CHAPTERTWENTY-SEVEN
Law of Game and Effect.
Finallymy eyes fell upon the figure of a man hewn out
from a solid block of stone. The imagewas thatof a giant man,
seated upon a throne,and stood but a few paces from where I
sat. As I absently regarded it, strange characters, written in
Coptic,attractedmy attention. Strollingover to it thefollowing
inscriptionwas deciphered:
“I,Sheddad, Son of Ad, reigned over a thousand thousand
provinces; and a thousand thousandkings were subject to me;
and a thousandthousandwarriors I slew; yet, in the hour that
the Angel of Death came against me, I could not withstand
him. Whoso shall read thiswriting let him not trouble himself
greatly about this world, for the end of all men is to die, and
nothingremains to man but a good name.”
So utterly miserable was I that I was about to accept this
philosophyas my own but, just at this time, a light touch upon
my shoulder caused me to turn quickly,when I beheld the tall,
familiar figure of a Hindu who regarded me with a fixed yet
kindly gaze. Addressing me in the language of my birth he
asked:
"Hari,do you not know me?”
The sound of his rich, melodious voice at once recalled to
mind theDalai Lama of Thibet.
"
’Tis my master, the Dalai Lama!” I cried, in an ecstasy of
joy,as we embracedeach othertime and again.
But my transient happiness was instantly clouded as I
rememberedmy recent degradation.No sooner was this thought
224 NEDOURE
recalled than gloom and despair seized me and my eyes sought
theground.
"Cheer up, Hari,” the Lama said, as he laid his hand cares-
singly upon my shoulder. "Your thoughts are known to me.
Altho: has been excommunicated today from the Egyptian
branch of the Magi, but, Hm’, my own dear boy, shall always
bewelcome to theMagiof IndiaandCathay.
“Until your mistakes grow much greater, you will be ever
welcome in our temple. But say no more of the matter now-
come withme.”
I longed to ask many questions about my old friends of
Thibet1and the Ouri Monastery; I wanted to know if poor old
Gobab was yet alive, but his calm, impenetrableglance caused
me to remainsilent.So, withoutfurther attempt at conversation,
I followedmy new found friend throughthewindingstreets of
Sais untilwe reacheda low,dark,forbiddinghouse. Enteringwe
passedthrougha dimly-lightedhallwayuntilwe finallyreached
a rear room, where the Lama opened the door and bade me
enter. Motioning me to a seat he placed himself in a chair
opposite and looked at me thoughtfully.The room was small
and very plainlyfurnished, containing a book-shelf,two chairs,
a smallcenter table anda few pictures.
Beginning,theLama said:
"Our meeting thiseveningwas neither the result of chance
1Once the home of some of the highest Initiates of the
Ancient world; today a land of degradation,its people no more
than slaves and without a shred of the ancient knowledge.
Tibet, like India and other Oriental lands in the hands and
under therule of self-interested, deluded, political montebanks,
all heading toward oblivion.
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 225
nor accident. In fact,as thouknowest, thereis no chance in the
world. Every efieetit theresult of 4 cause or some hidden 1aw.”
Changing his course of thoughthe asked:
"Do you intend returning to India?”
“Kind Master,” I replied, "at this moment I am much like
a ship at sea withouta rudder. All my hopes have been shattered
by my own weakness, and, as you know, I am now in disgrace.”
"Let not thosethoughtsdisturb you. Nothingcan he gained
by he/wailingthepart.’ You have dared to love a superior, and
one, too, who is far above the material plane. Yet the angels
in heaven are bound together by love, then why should man
attempt to rise above it?"
Withoutexpectingan answer theLama continued:
"When, however, an inferior love: a superior, every effort
should be exerted to attain a perfection equal to thatenjoyed hy
theobjectof such love/”
At this last suggestion, which bore with a ray of hope, my
heart bounded withthehappiness of anticipation. Fallingupon
my knees and extendingmy arms toward him, I cried out: "0,
Master! Guide me! Assist me in this, my dark hour of indeci-
sion!”
“The Biblical injunction is: “Let the dead bury their
dead,” commanding that which is past belongs to God and
should be forgotten, rememberingonly the lessons learned and
applied in life. By beginning today and continuing in all the
tomorrows, we can make of life what it should be, with our-
selves the master of conditions and circumstances; using the
knowledge gained as a result of our experiences and our
mistakes not alone for our own benefit but to the welfare of
others less fortunate.
3 One of the great Spiritual or Divine Laws wholly ignored
226 NEDOURE
Raising me gently to my seat, he spoke slowly,yet kindly,
as he said:
"As you have been forbidden to again meet the object of
your love in the physical, you must seek her on the Spiritual
plane.”
"But,” said I, "Nedoure is not even aware of my love for
her. Besides, I have reason to believe that, if in her sublime
nature there is love for aught but God, one of the immortals
holds that love. To him am I also bound by ties of gratitude
and afiection; his name is Watlm.”
With a grave smile and a deptecating wave of the hand
theLama replied:
"Hari,my boy, as yet you are but a youth with but little
experience; and, like most young men of your age, you quickly
arrive at conclusions.This much I will say: One in a high state
of development, as Nedoure, knows thyinnermost thoughts. If
you have silentlyoffered her a pure and untarnished love, she
can do no less thanpity you. Such a beingwould never consider
a love based upon material affection alone.
“Of WatlanI may also speak. In past ages, when theAdan-
teans were in the zenith of their glory and development, a
spirit of unrest took possession of them. Having accomplished
thegreat feat of interplanetary communication,by means of the
seven onyx pillars, they finally sought to usurp the creative
by humanity. In the mundane world, conquest is the aim,
equality is not even thought of, much less is effort made in
order to attain a higher state of being.The Biblical injunction:
“Be ye thereforeperfect,” received little consideration in the life
of man; hence man is mediocre; the grave and a long sleep is
his end.
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 227
power of God. For this sacrilegiousdesire they were destroyed
and their continent submerged beneaththe waters of the sea.
Twoalonewere saved-—a young priest, by thename of Wadan,
and his sister, Nedoure, who held theposition, as now, of High
Priestess. Since that time she has returned twice to undergo
rebirth,while Wadm, on account of his perfection, has been
spared thatordeal.
“You must now, as I before stated, visit your beloved in the
Spiritualplane only.”
"V/‘ill not many years be required for such attainment?”
I asked, somewhatcrestfallen.
“By no means,” he answered, “I must begin my return
journey to Thibet at the end of thirty days. In the meantime
I promiseto teachyou therules for development.To beginwith,
you must practicethe IlluminationBreath.”
228
'
NEDOURE
CHAPTERTWENTY-EIGHT
The EvilOne
“Ah! It is thou, great Psamittichus,” said Tantras, as the
figure in blackstood motionless before him.
“Why hast thougranted thyservant so great an honor?"
“Amasis,my father,King of Egypt, is dead," came the re-
plyin calm, passionless tones.
At this the sorcerer cunningly feigned great agitation.
Hastilyarisingand bowinghis head as if in abject grief,he said:
"O, that so great and good a man should be so abruptly
summoned to the presence of Osiris! Yet the loss of earth is
theprofitof thegods. In thygreat sorrow, 0 Prince, forget not
thatin thyservant thouhast ever an unfailingfriend and will-
ing vassal. The world gropes today in darkness at the loss of
thyfather,but to-morrow will be dazzled by the brightness of
a rising Sun, which will ere its setting -bathe the whole globe
in thelight of thymatchless wisdom and power.”
The Princereadilyunderstood theill-concealedcompliment,
and replied in a voice thatwas meant to beimpressive.
"Man of mystery, thou speakest of the setting of the Sun.
Hast thou not promised that when the prince has become the
king to supply an elixir that will forever defer the hated sun-
set?”
“Mighty ruler of Egypt, thouspeakest aright. ’Tis true, thy
servant has in a way some little power, and knowest in a meas-
ure thevirtue and potency of certain rare herbs. But such power
is as naughtbeforethymighty Will. The elixir is ready save the
last ingredient—a certain kind of human blood—which must
beadded in order to give it full potency.”
230 NEDOURE
"Why should that cause delay?” interrupted the impetuous
prince. "Human blood thou mayest have in rivers, if required,
for the boon I seek.”
“Most magnanimous of monarchs, I thank thee for the
liberalityof thineoffer, which is truly such as becomesa king,”
replied Tantras, assuming that cringing air he could so well
affect when it suited his purpose. “Hearkena moment onlyand
all will be made clear. The elixir that gives perpetual life can
onlybe made once in a thousandyears——thesame time required
by the universal energy to convert deposits of lead in theearth
to glitteringbeds of gold. The blood we require must be drawn
from the heart of one who has lived a virgin life during three
separate incarnations.”
"O, mighty King of the four cardinal points, my eyes have
beheldher.”
“Good! If thou hast seen her, discerning man of power, a
weight is removed from my mind as the elixir is now assured.
Yet,by thyfirst words,” continued Psamittichus,witha momen-
tary flash of light in his eyes, “me thought the requirements
were even beyondthepower of a monarch. Tell me, then,where
such a creature may be found,and, by my crown, she shall be in
thykeeping beforethesetting of the third day’s Sun!”
“O, Kingof Kings,in all Egypt thereis ‘but one-—”
The blackmagician then paused for a moment, folded his
dark arms upon his massive chest and regarded the prince in
silence.Then, in slow, deliberatetones, he added—
"Nezloure~—tIaePrierterr of theMagi!”
Psamittichus started back, turned pale and threw up his
hands as if to protect himself from an invisible blow. Then,
murmuring to himself, as he continued to tremble violently,
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 231
"By the shade of Great Typhon! Why should it be thus? Ne-
doure——the one of all others!” Controlling himself somewhat
and speaking aloud the prince said:
"Strange man, thouknowest not what thou hast aske ."
Then, nervouslydrawinghis mantle closer about him, as his
eyes sought thefloor, he hesitated as if in doubt for a few mo-
ments, when, turning sharplyuponthesorcerer, who had main-
tained the same position, he added, as their eyes met:
"Thou shalt hear from me anon. For the time, farewell!"
So sayinghe wheeled about and strode from the chamber.
As the echoes of his footsteps died away in the corridors of
the temple, Tantras smiledgrimly and hissed with derision as
he fiercelyclenched his fists:
“Ah! weak fool! Thou art as helpless as the sacrificialram.
A wonder! selected by thegods to rule theearth! Seeker for the
Elixir of Life, I am also a seeker for something—thatanother
royal fool may become more deeply ensnared! Widx Nedoure
once in my possession and theMaharajaof Kashmir at my feet,
farewell, then,to Egypt and its simpletonruler! Amasis dead-
ha! ha! ha! My forces have not yet forsaken me. I shall triumph,
sure.”
As the last words fell from the lips of the black magician
a change came over his face.The law: of Nature he had so pror-
tituted for evil end: had hrought hack to him the gathered
reactionofhis life’:limit ofwrongdoing.Out from thedarkened
folds of the draperies a slender, twisting tentacle stole silently
upon him. A moment later a snaky, smoky shadow encircled
his brow for an instant and disappeared. Immediatelyhis brains
seemed to boil within his skull. Flashes of forked light writhed
232 NEDOURE
about him and struck at him with their serpentine fangs. He
claspedhis hands aroundhis headand fledwitha howl of terror.
The day following the interview of Psamittichus and Tan-
tras theformer was sitting alone in one of thegorgeous rooms
of the palace. He was clad in royal robes and bedecked with
costly jewels. Yet his pale, somber face showed that, for the
moment, he had but little interest in his surroundings. For more
than an hour he had sat thus, wrestling with the problem of
love or selfishness. For, when a prince, he had often cast long-
ing eyes upon Nedoure. Now thathe was suddenly called upon
to sacrificeher to his longcherished dream, theelixir of life, he
realizedthathe had alwayssecretly admired her, and as he con-
tinued to ponderover her fair faceand form he persuaded him-
self thathe really loved her. Whether he should spare her and
forego theelixir was thesubjectof his present cogitations.
Finallyhe arose, havingapparentlyreached a decision. Pull-
ing fiercely upon a silken cord the captain of his special body-
guard, the Grecian mercenaries,appeared.
“Euphrides,” said the King in a stern voice, "dost know the
daughterof Netros?"
“I do, sire,” replied the captain, bending with military
precision.
“Takewith thee, then,a score of thytrusty men and bring
her hither.”
Witha passivefacethepaidwarrior,who fought for neither
glory nor his country, received the order with no expression
other than servile acquiescence,and onlyawaited the command
of his sovereign to withdraw,when theKingtook a step nearer
and said in a lower and more confidentialtone:
"I trust to thydiscretion in thismatter. See thatno alarm is
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 233
given. Take withtheethissignet ring and tell her in thysoftest
tones that Psamittichus, King of Egypt, sends greeting to the
Priestess of the Magi and desires to hearken unto her words of
wisdom. Add thatthesovereign is sorely perplexed and would
see her at once.”
Then again assuminga stern air the monarch added:
“Use first thycunning,butby no means return withouther.”
While thenewly-crownedmonarch was devising means for
her destruction, Nedoure had remained for several days in a
deep trance, attended by her faithfulmaid and watched over by
theMagi,who had so sternlybanished Althos. As themysteries
of thetrance were known to many of thebrotherhoodby actual
experience, no attempt was made to arouse or awaken her.
Silencewas strictlyenjoinedupon all present,whiletheyawaited
her return with fortitude.
Presently she opened her large, lustrous eyes and looked
dreamilyaround as if trying to recall her location. Finallyshe
arose to a sitting posture and, by a motion, called the Magi
about her.
"Brothers,” she said, "it has been the object of all past
trances to penetrate thesphere of Light and eternal happiness.
Though I have tried many times beforemy unworthinessclung
like a millstone around my neck and held me back from the
beautieswhich can only becontemplated throughthe forebear-
ance of the One. I am now selected as the humble messenger
to beat you tidings of truth concerning those mysteries of life
and death which have been so long withheld from the world.
In thebeginningGod himself was the embodimentof all. The
first great separation gave Spirit and Matter. From the latter
sprang theworlds and all inorganicsubstance.
234 NEDOURE
"What we now behold as the Sun was the center of this
great activityof movement.
"From Spirit came forththePlanetaryAngels and theSouls
of men. It is theWillof theAbsolutethattheyshall all obtain
such experienceas willfit themfor thehigher realms of destiny.
All, accordingto thecyclic law of control, must first make the
descent into matter, which is called Incarnation. The upward
journey of the Spirit then begins. Failuresto attain the highest
developmentnecessitate reincarnation.
"The worlds or planets were born from the Sun, which was
at one time the grand, magnificent embodiment of all. The
planets came forth in regular order, corresponding with the
relative distance theynow occupy from the Sun. Since the birth
of the earth, two other worlds have been created—Venus and
Mercury. The planets were born from the condensation of the
Sun, and the distances between them and the Sun were thus
constantlyincreased.Withthecompletionof the mysticnumber,
seven, the creation of the planets, like that of all other series,
ceased.”
"The Soul incarnated on one planet may reincarnate on
anotherin its upwa.rd——”
At thismoment Nedoure was interrupted by a loud rapping
on thedoor, whichprovedto beEuphrides,theemissary of King
Psamittichus. To theMagus who responded, his mission to see
Nedoure was brieflyyet politelymade known. He said:
"Euphrides,servant of the King, bears a message from His
RoyalMajestyto Nedoure, most excellentPriestessoftheMagi.”
As the Greek had thoughtfullyleft his escort some distance
from the house, the old Magus saw no cause for alarm in the
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 235
summons of the King, so he bade the officer be seated in the
vestibulewhilehe bore word to thePriestess.
The reply of Nedoure was couched in firm but respectful
language, declining the honor for the present, owing, as she
stated, to sad conditions of which the King had not yet been
made aware.
As Euphrides received the refusal a momentary frown
crossed his brow, but hastilydispelling it he asked, with a cold
smile,if thegracious lady would condescend to see the servant
of theKingin person.
Being answered in the negative he assumed a harsh voice
of commandas he replied:
"The wish of our master, theKing,should be a law unto all
the land. I am truly sorry to cause you further annoyance, as I
am but a simple soldier and know but little of soft words, yet
my orders have but one mea.ning—I must not return to the
palacewithoutthecompanyof Nedoure.”
Then,stepping outside the door, he blew a shrill,piercing
signal from a small silver whistle hanging at his side. The old
Magus, who evidentlyanticipated such an action,quicklyclosed
and barred the door behind him; then, with the assistance of
several others, who had been attracted by the loud voice of the
King's messenger, the shades of the windows were also closed
and barricaded, but not a moment too soon as thesoldiers had
now arrived and began to surround the house. Finding himself
thusbarred out, Euphridessent a message so informingtheKing.
Nedoure expressed no surprise when she learned that the
house was besieged with minions of the King, intent upon
seizing her person, as the mind of this marvelous woman ap-
peared to be omniscient. She knew everything,all sciences and
236 NEDOURE
all languages, and readilyinformed herself upon any subject
withoutthenecessity of application.By concentration upon any
branch of science alone she was enabled to master it.‘ Yet this
favored of mortals conducted herself at all times withbecoming
modesty and in a manner so charming thatto know her was to
loveher.
Her advice was given onlyupon request, and never did she
intrude theories upon others. Her mind was stored with too
much real knowledge to admit of such petty jealousies as fill
theminds of the ordinary.
Her simple reply when informed of the conditions was:
“Thanks to the foresight of my father,the house is strong-
and thewillof God is stronger.
"Let all my brothers dispose themselves according to their
desires, while we await the fall of vain-glorious pride and
materialisticambition.”
When themessenger from Euphrides arrived at the palace,
bearing news of Nedoure’s defiance, the brow of Psamittichus
clouded with a scowl that boded no good to those who had
opposed his arrogant will.
His evil temper knew no bounds. Like one possessed he
hastenedto summon several of his most trusty officers, ordering
them with ample force and two powerful catapults to destroy
the palace of Netros and to slay all who offered opposition,
save Nedoure, "who must betaken unharmed, with her beauty
unmarred,”as he cunninglyadded.
‘
One would have scarcely imagined that several hundred
Grecian mercenaries, supported by as many Lybianhorse, were
1 This was Doctor P. B. Randolph's great secret.
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 237
required to capture a young and inoffensive lady, surrounded
by a few pious old men, all of whom were unarmed. The King
himself would have recognized in his calmer moments the
ludicrous aspect of such an expedition,but he was pettish and
peevish by nature and at this present moment was intoxicated
byhis sudden accession to power and hopeless ambitions.
About this time an event occurred which was destined to
crush and humblethisegotisticalruler.
It was but a few moments after thegaily—bedeckedwarriors
leftthepalacegates when half a dozen horsemen came through
thecity at break-neckspeed. Covered withdust and perspiration
theyurged their steeds toward the palace calling out in a loud
voice words which caused great commotion wherever heard.
Still yelling those words, which struck consternation in the
hearts of all, theyrushed breathlessto thepalacegates.
"The Persians! The Persians are coming!" could now be
distinguished as the ominous message. The populace rushed
hither and thither,men turned pale and women screamed as
thefull import of theawful news burst upon them,whileothers
lifted theirvoices, bewailingtheloss of Amasis, thesoldier-king
as but littleconfidencewas reposed in thepriest-riddenson.
As soon as Psamittichus was made aware of the news that
Cambyses approached by land and sea with the flower of the
Persian army, he at once dispatched a note to Tantras, bidding
him come at once to thepalace.He also sent word for therecall
of the soldiers sent to arrest Nedoure, as the gravity of affairs
would no longer permit thepursuit of his idle fancies.
238 NEDOURE
CHAPTERTWENTY-NINE
The DeathStruggle
At thetimewhen Nedoure was held a prisoner in her house
and the King was indulging his terrible wrath,Tantras was in
his privateroom in thetempleof Phtah. But what great change
had come over him? He was no longer the bold, self-confident
sorcerer we have known.
Crouching upon knees and chest, with hair disheveled and
bloodshot eyes, he could have been seen upon a couch of this
inner room, gazing withoverwhelming fright at some invisible
horror.
Coarse, guttural groans and piteous moans rent the air anon
as he strove to shut out some awful scene of creatures from his
view. Leaping from the couch, like some gigantic wild beast,
he scrambled toward the corner of the room, holding in his
hands the while a blood-stained shell which bore the royal
insignia of theMaharaja of Kashmir. This demented beingpre-
sented a ghastlysight, indeed, as he furiouslygnashedhis teeth,
occasionally biting deep into his own flesh until the blood
flowed in streams from his self-inflictedwounds, adding even
more horror to thescene.
Tantras had just received a note from the Maharaja who
was but a short distance up the Nile with a gorgeous and
resplendent retinue. This Oriental was coming ostensibly to
welcome Psamittichus to the throne of Egypt and to renew
the treaty which had existed between his kingdom and thatof
Amasis.
Yet another and more important cause drew this potentate
across theseas to thevalleyof theNile.
240 NEDOURE
Relyingon thepromise of Tantrashe had hoped to secretly
bearaway thelovelyNedoure.
But Tantras had learnedof thedeathof his two attendants,
who had tried to abduct thePriestess.Their hideous bodies,with
no markof weapon or bruise, he had consigned to theearthtwo
days before.
The young spy he had managedto introduce into thehouse-
holdof Netros had suddenlysunk in mid-stream when returning
after making a report to Tantras. He had seen both boat and
spy sink and disappear under his very eyes. Sink with no seem-
ingcause and leaveno trace behind!
Nevo-loo,thewicked old priest,had falleninto a swoon that
morning,just as he was ready to make thedailyofiering to the
Sun. He recovered to find himself completelyparalyzedon one
side.
Tantrashimself had felt theassaultof unseen powers. Even
now beforehim he saw a great Eye whose steady,vengeful gaze
pierced him through.BeyondthegreatEyestood a fiendholding
an hour-glass, and but a few grains were left to run. Tantras,
in the repeated failureof his plansto secure thePriestess, for he
was now certain that Psamittichus would fail him, and in the
terror of theinvisible hand thathad struck down his agents-
a hand thatwould crush him as the sand of the hour-glass run
out—was like a cagedbeast,wildwithterror and insane through
his swiftly impending fate. He glanced apprehensively at the
door as though expecting an executioner, for even now the
cruel and crafty Maharaja was on his way to meet his trusted
companion in dark schemes, and if disappointed, as Tantras
knew he would be,his revengefulrage would know no bounds.
“It is his life or mine,” he muttered. The Eye shot forth an
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 241
angrier gleam, the demon chuckled with a leer and held aloft
theglass—thelast grains were about to fall. A legionof fiends
sprang into view and surrounded him as thoughintent on seiz-
ing his coweringform. Approachingfootsteps sounded without!
Leaving his princely pleasure boats, constructed under his
orders some time before, at Thebes, the designing ruler of
Kashmir set forth impatientlyon a secret visit to Tantras. As
the Sun was sinking behind the Lybian mountains, with but
three retainers, he went forth incognito. As he followed the
guide his step was firm and elastic,and his eyes glittered with
joy as he anticipated the realization of his life's dream. On he
went, littledreamingof thestore fate held for him.
Whiletheunhappy Tantras raved and shrank from myriads
of invisibledemons, a familiarsignal upon thedoor recalled for
a moment his mad conclusion.
With the cunning of a madman, for such he now was,
Tantras, with a diabolical expression upon his face, secreted
himself behindthedoor and bade thevisitor enter.
With the bright beam of happy expectancy upon his face,
Pundit Sing, Maharajaof Kashmir, rushed into the room in re-
sponse to thewell known voice of his old friendTantras.
Like some dark, destroying demon, the gigantic maniac
threwhimself upon theMaharaja,beatinghim to thefloor. The
latter, thoughgreatlysurprised, was not frightened and quickly
drew himself together and grappled in a deadly struggle with
thefurious, ragingbrute.
Wont to test his strengthand prowess withwild beastsdur-
ing his annual hunts in the junglesof India, the Maharaja was
no mean opponent.Yetthistest was a strange and unequal one,
242 NEDOURE
which must soon have ended in favor of the lunaticon account
of his almost superhuman strength.
As soon, however, as the body-guard of theruler recovered
from their shock of surprise, they rushed in, plying their sci-
mitars right and leftover thegreat bodyof themaniac.
Notwithstandingthe terrible wounds inflicted upon him
the sorcerer grasped the throat of the Maharaja and clung to
him with a fatal tenacity which would have soon crushed out
his life had not one of the guards, with a powerful stroke,
severed thehead of Tanrras from his body.
Even thenit was withdifficultythatthegreat, sinewyfingers
were unlocked from the throatof the unconscious monarch.
Whiletwo of theattendantsloosened therich garments and
made frantic efl’orts to resuscitate the Maharaja another ran
swiftlyto theboats at theriverside for assistance.
The exciting news brought forth the whole retinue to the
side of the dyingruler.
,
The royal physician shook his head as he felt the feeble
pulse.
RealizingthattheMaharajawas fastsinking,theold physi-
cian took from his case a smallflaskand placedit to thedepart-
ing man's lips. Its actionwas that of a powerful stimulant, for
in a moment the ruler’s eyes opened, and as deathoften brings
intelligence, he calmly surveyed the anxious faces around him
until his eyes rested on a corpulent, pleasant, little old man,
dressed in a robeof bright yellow. By an almost imperceptible
sign it was seen thathe desired to speak withhim.
As the little monk gravely approached all save the old
physicianwithdrewfrom theroom.
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 243
In a short time theywere rejoinedbythemonk,who proved
to be our old friend Gobab from the Ouri Monastery. In his
hand he bore a packageof manuscriptwhich showed the effects
of age and wear.
Lifting his hands, as if uttering a benediction, he spoke.
His words were brief but important:
"Our master, Pundit Sing, Maharaja of Kashmir, is withus
no longer. Peaceto his bones.”
244. NEDOURE
CHAPTERTHIRTY
Instructions Have Not Changed
When I awoke the next morning my whole being thrilled
withthe happiness of hope. I felt that with the learned Dalai-
Lama as my friend and patron the power and illumination
would come to which all other real desires are added. The very
presence of this great man created an atmosphere of ease and
quietwhich impressed all withinits charmed circle.
Afterwe had partaken of a light breakfast we were seated
on theveranda, when he opened theconversation which interes-
ted me most. Continuing in regard to development the Lama
began:‘
"Man should first seek to know himself, or, as expressed
by theMagi—‘Know Thyself,by Thyself.’
‘We exist in a great sea of vitalized fluid, which contains
the principle of life. It becomes individualized as it manifests
itself in each being.
"The principleof life is itself withoutbeginningand with-
out end, proceeding from the Absolute.
"All bodies are, according to the eternal law of design,
most perfectly adapted for theuse intended.
"The low of creation is motion. Motion produces influence
of two kinds—constructive and destructive.
1The instructions that followed have not changed. They
remain today as in the foretime, and Neophytes are instructed
in great detail, to fullyprepare themfor the AdvancedSpiritual
Development essential to Philosophic Initiation and Occult
Mastership.
246 NEDOURE
"From theformer proceeds theCosmos or orderly creation.
From thelatter, chaos andconfusion.
“This, like all universal laws, prevailsin the human being.
“The student who understands not the law of vibrationand
thescienceof breathshas but littleof real occult knowledge.
"The condition of the mind and body, throughwhich such
motion or influence passes, determines the character of the
influence.
“Influenceis communicated by means of vibrations which
impress or affect all objects, animal or human life thatreceives
them.
“The clairvoyant eye and clairaudientear take up thevision
and hearingwhere the external organs leave off.
“There are five avenues through which the vibrating in-
fluences pass-—thethoughts, the eye, the voice, the touch and
the movements of the body. Therefore each avenue must be
fullydevelopedif you would attain thehighestend.
At this moment we were interrupted by two grave-looking
Hindoos who approached and beckoned to the Lama, who at
once arose and, with an apology to me, joined them. He con-
ducted them into the house but soon returned and, with his
quiet smile,said:
“Hari, Son of Randjid Sing, allow me to salute you as
Maharajaof Kashmir!”
After a few moments silence, in which I was too confused
for utterance, he continued:
“Pundit Sing, your uncle and usurper of the throne, is
dead. I may also say thatyour old friendand preceptor, Gobab,
awaits you on theroyalpleasureboat."
PRIESTESS OF THE MAGI 247
My first intention was to refuse the honor thus suddenly
thrust upon me, but, guided by the advice of my kind friends,
I accepted. Not least among the pleasures of thatday was my
reunionwithold Gobab,whowept withpleasureat our meeting.
As Cambyses had thatday entered thecity of Sais withhis
ruthlessarmy of invasion, it was deemed expedientto return at
once to Kashmir. Whileawaiting the embalmingof my uncle's
body, in the luxuriant apartments of the royal craft, I received
a visit fromNedoure. She greeted me gravelyand extended con-
gratulations of a doubtful nature, considering my past aspira-
tions.
As she was about to bidme farewellI asked:
“Most learned Nedoure, you have taught me many beauti-
ful truths and explained many of life's mysteries. May I ask
how you define love?"
Without prelude she gave me a sweet smile, more to me
thana kingdom,and began:
"Love is thatattractionwhich causes us to look forward to
the pleasurable attainment of an object. It is the cement by
which thewholefabric of the universe is held together. It was
themagicinspirationthatcaused thegreat work of creation to
begin. It is themagnetwhich propagates all species. Love is a
law for angels as well as men and, yea, even the gods are
moved by it. Life itself would be darkness withoutlove.
“YETEVERYTRUTHHAS ITs IMITATION.THosE wHo LAcI<
THIs DIVINE FEELING AND DENY THAT IT Is THE EMOTION
THAT Is PART OF GOD, ARE THE "cHAFF” WHICH DoEs NOT
coNTAIN WITHIN ITSELF THE GERM OF A FUTURE LIFE oN
ANY PLANE. THEIR LIFE Is LIMITED To THIS PLANE AND
THE PRESENT PERIOD. MATTER IS DEAD IF IT DoEs NOT
248 NEDOURE
CONTAIN BUT THE GERM AND THE SPIRIT OF LIFE BEYOND
THE PRESENT.
“You, my dear brother, thought you were destined to be-
come a Magus, and for many years you sought the Light. Fate
may have decreed otherwise—yourtime may not have yet come.
However,your experiencewillbeof valueto you in your present
position, exalted beforemen. The same error which caused you
to become one of the Magi may have also caused you to think
you love, but thetimehas not yet come.
"Now, with my blessing and benediction,I leave you. Let
your rule in life be, ‘Do unto others as you would have them
do unto you.’ That rule willapply to all spheres and you will
findnone better.Vale.”
IN PASSING
The purpose of the present text has in view the positive
inculcationof theDivinelygiven Laws which, if obeyed,assures
the welfare of man in every aspect of his manifold life, and is
equally positive in the assertion that every dormant capability,
both physical and Spiritual, can be developed to the fullest
extent by those who are truly interested in obtaining all thatis
good in life and withinthe Law.
The various terms used so frequentlythroughoutthe text,
such as theArcane Science, PhilorophicInitiation are frequently
used interchangeably and have reference to the means, the
method, the wny to the attainment of Soul Consciousness, Il-
lumination, Mastership and finally become the "selected,” or
"accepted.”
To themany interested in themore advancedstudies of the
Arcane as taughtin the Great Work, theopportunity is offered
them to obtain gratis several Monographs: The Secret Schools,
having for its subject theAuthenticRosicrucians, or Frnternati:
Rome Crncir, theirwork of instructions and guidance, and The
Confederation of Initiates, devoted to the Aith Priesthoodand
Priests of Melchizadek. These Monographsprovide a means of
contact by the sincere seeker with those capable of directing
him along the Path of Attainment.
Address:
Departmentof Instruction
"Beverly Hall”
Quakertown, Pennsylvania
