{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jutta_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Jutta P NDE 4971","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jutta P NDE 4971  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jutta P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2599 Jutta P NDE 4971  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					While my Dengue fever rose I was like comatose, I saw grotesque faces and hobgoblins who wanted; summon me to dance so they could take away the air to breath. 

I fled into a dark tunnel to hide which suddenly opened in front of me. I went further because I saw light in the distance. The nearer I came to the light, I felt lighter, calmer, and happier - and somehow snug.

The Light got brighter, my body felt slight and an overwhelming feeling of freedom and floating passed through me, it was miraculous and I can't forget it. It was a garden made of light.

I didn't see a silhouette of people, but I saw light moving. I could imagine them as angels and before I went to step in, a soft voice talked to me that my time was not up and my soul wanted to finish its life-task. A door shut and I was surrounded in darkness again.  I was still in this tunnel, but I went out calmed down. 

I awoke two days later and it felt like awaking from a dream, from each hour to hour I was getting better. Since then I hear voices of souls from other people. I get messages from my ancestors and I feel totally loved and supported.

The messages of other souls are always verified. The message I got lead to my mission: to accompany dying children and pass the happy soul-messages from the children to their bereaved and families.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Juli 1999

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I had the Dengue fever which was not easy to treat.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Shortly before I stepped into the light everything was one. I didn't feel any separation.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no time, I lost the feeling for time, in this space everything was at the same time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     An intensive brightness - glistening.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Clear, short messages.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     See main narrative.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I didn't see beings, but heard a soft voice, I believe more like a male voice.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   See main narrative.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Es war wie ein Lichtgarten, ich konnte zwar keine Einzelheiten erkennen, aber fühlen, dass da noch mehr ist.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I belong there, I want to go there, a knowing happiness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I didn't see consciously a review of my life, but heard a message, which changed my life, I was driven to something I couldn't ever imagine to do this.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I was more sensitive for myself and my wishes, but for other people, too. I meet people with more respect and loving. I see and hear more about other people, but without putting my finger into the wound. Mostly people come to me. My feeling tells me that this happens through souls contact.  Since then I feel at home in my body, I can remember very well the feeling in the light and feel it is giving me strength for my mission.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Since then I have got the feeling that every soul has a special mission and I feel that it is important for people to develop a consciousness to recognize their task.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes More much more loving, sensitive and respecting.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   I was at first uncertain because it was very realistic for me and I didn't give it a special meaning.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Since then I hear the souls of other people as if I can talk with them verbally. It is funny and happy and miraculous things happen. I can lead me through a spiritual loving power, feel more intensive.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The voice I heard is important to me, which made me conscious that I have a soul task I want to do, that I am by my will on earth and it was my choice.  I may support people with my knowledge about leaving the soul from the body without moaning of egoistic family members.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I am carefully with my comments about my NDE, I experienced that most people are feared, unwilling to believe.  When I am asked I can give clear information and I stand to it because it is how it is but I do not do missionaries.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   My mother had cardiac arrest and she told me years ago when I was a young girl about her experience which was beautiful bright and light.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I take my experience serious and prayed to be supported by my spiritual helpers.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I fulfill my task, which I never could do without my experience. I would run always the wrong directions.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I get constantly information, like the information in your homepage NDERF, which are helping me to make decisions and approve.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I think your job is very important, because I know how it's going and all people need the knowledge to make their decisions!!!!!

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       The method you suggest is important, and it should be kept seriously, so cranks and nutters do not develop their own group.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jutta_p_nde.html