{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1justin_u_nde.html","mytitle":"Justin U NDE 4671","mylang":"de"}
          	        Justin U NDE 4671  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Justin U NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2366 Justin U NDE 4671  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Following an accident it is difficult to pin down exactly when during the following week that I had the experience, as I was in surgery much and also in an Coma for the following week. I do remember being transferred from one Accident and Emergency Hospital to a specialist unit, as the medics could not help further and after being resuscitated and deteriorating further as part of the experience. The ambulance that took me by police escort to the specialist trauma surgical team drove for a distance up a motorway at night. 

When I awoke from the coma, I had a clear recollection of Flying above the scene looking down going backwards looking down on the ambulance, keeping pace with it. I also remembered clearly a family member in the front of the ambulance going with me being sick into a bag. This was verified afterwards and the only part of the experience that I can put an actual exact time on.

The following experiences in memory don't seem to be linked as following on directly from that. I remember clearly though initially being in a very big void of darkness. There was some danger or negative aspects/beings/entities involved but I did not remember seeing or experiencing them just being aware of them. Then I moved quickly to a warm and absolute feeling of love and light. On the way through to it I was stopped. Some beings both what seemed like beings of light and love, and some family members who had passed away were in a semi-circle and I stopped just before them. They looked (the family members) as they did on earth but where not material and all had much light, calmness and serenity about them. I saw my Aunty who died at age seven one year before I was born. I described to family members the exact clothes, and certain jewelry she had on the day she died, which was confirmed. It was impossible to have this information without seeing it. They seemed to be welcoming me. The beings of light with them seemed not to have ever been in a material body. They could be described as angels. However, they had no wings but I can understand where that comes from in history. The love radiating from their hearts was so powerful and large it surrounded their upper body almost like wings.

This bit is a bit blurred. I seemed to leave them but I don't remember moving, before coming back to them later. I went to the light, which was above them, and it was just pure unconditional love and acceptance. As I moved towards it I felt no fear but do remember saying/thinking that I was sorry for anything wrong I had done in life. At that time, I then experienced a partial life review.

Many events in my life I experienced, but not from how I remembered it, but from the point of view, I experienced it from how the people, animals, environment experienced it around me. I felt it as my own. The times I had made others happy, and sad, I felt it all as they did. It was very apparent that every single thought word and action affects everything around the entire universe, and indeed us including trees, plants, and animals too. I have been a long term vegetarian since about eighteen years old and I know this was appreciated and is a good choice in life. Spiritually it seemed to show proof of respect for all life, and even seemed to balance some of the negative and wicked things I have done in my life. In the Life review we judge ourselves; no one else does, the light/God did not, but with no ego left and no lies, we can't hide from what we have done and feel remorse and shame, especially in the presence of this love and light.

Some of the things in life we think of as important don't seem to be so important there. But some of the insignificant things from the material human perspective are very important spiritually.

After this review there seemed to be some kind of balance that I had done wrong, however I had done much good to, and as I was genuinely sorry for those things I then started to get closer to the light again, it is beyond description, the love, acceptance and oneness of everything is so profound.

Then though, and I am not sure if this is just a disjointed memory, or if it happened in the timeline like this, I was back with the semi-circle of beings and family. I seemed to be looking up at my grandfather; he had so much love and light about him for me. He wanted me to go with him, but I knew I had to go to the light not with him. He seemed sad but still full of love for me. As I looked up a Tear fell from his right eye as if he would miss me. This is why it is disjointed as below:

I seemed to be practically next to the light/love.  I hesitate to use the word God as it is non-judging, and we create our world more than I realized before, we can create a heaven or hell depending on what we do in life, surely the starving fields of Africa with children dying hot, arid diseases, war is hell, and the joyous bliss of love and helping is heaven? We create this not someone else, also God is a separate thing this love and light to my experience was oneness, something in all of us we block out as I will describe further now.

I was ready to start to merge with the love and light, but not fully and seemed to for a while (though time does not exists as we experience it there) the feeling of oneness and love and bliss and knowing is profound. I knew if I merged totally 'I' would disappear would become one will it and all. Being so close to it and bathing in it was an experience that can never ever be put into words or described properly. As I was resting close to it and getting closer and closer, basking I became aware of the earth way below me/us. I was at that time asking many questions, which were answered, anything I wanted to know and understand, I remember clearly understanding everything, however this information seems to have been blocked upon returning to material form, but I know I understood all then.

Seeing the earth, I became aware of several things. I could see many other spirits, beings, who were also leaving their bodies and moving away from the earth. However many of them in their spiritual bodies seemed to not be able to see the light and love above. They had almost like clouds above their heads, like clouds blocking out the sun, it's still there but we can't see it. I was very aware that those clouds were their thought and feeling patterns, the more angry, hateful, bitter, etc., the bigger and darker these clouds which is just another description for their minds. The more negative ones also seemed to be looking down not even up. I could experience their feelings, anger, etc.  I wanted them to look up and see the love and come to the light, but I couldn't get my message to them. This is part of the experience that is not nice. 

Those negative beings seemed to come from the earth and go down away from the light, I was aware of them going to a void/darkness/suffering or perpetual round and round in circles in their experiences/mind of the negative record player almost habits of thoughts and feelings. I was aware of them going somewhere like hell, but I was not allowed to remember it or it has been blocked from my memory. The love and light didn't want them to experience that, and was doing all it could to let them come to it. But they could not or would not accept or see it. It was obvious they were creating this experience, not a separate devil or God punishing them. Maybe their life review filled them with so much remorse they had to punish themselves. Maybe in the life review they did not feel any remorse and just felt anger at when others had felt good in their suffering or downfall.

I do know though that it was their choice, their creation, not a separate God's choice or devil. I never experienced any type of separate devil or being calling them. They just could not see the light their minds/hearts were obstructed by their current and past thoughts, habits, it was there so bright and obvious to me but they just could not see it. Maybe it was where I was going or what I experienced in the beginning when in the void and seemed aware of some negative entities/beings. I am no saint and have done much wrong in my life so I do not understand still why I was never like that myself.

Some were coming to the light, or looking up had no dark swirling or just a bit of energy above and around their heads. But from what I remember only a really small percentage maybe one in a hundred or less. I am still worried to this day about the following as I am scared to become one of those who couldn't see it.

I became aware too, of beings mainly human on the earth still alive, and could again see this either clearness or light about them or dark swirling thoughts energy. Again very, very few seemed to be positive. A few, a couple in each continent, seemed to be material form and able to see the light whilst alive, they were looking up smiling aware of it with no dark negative thoughts/energies around them, maybe ten or twenty in the whole world. The rest of humanity had a mixture, but most were looking down and had much darkness about them. I then understood at that time that this is an important time indeed on the earth, there are other planets and other beings out there, but for humans on the earth this is a very important time. We seem to be on a precipice and either total destruction or a better way seems to be on a razor edge. This love/Light is not going to do anything to us, or smite us, we do it all and we create it all. We choose by our love for others and helping or selfishness. I was made aware of some things coming up very important but this again was blocked. It seemed as if two scenarios could play out on earth, one of them made me so sad but again I can't remember it it's blocked.

Whilst watching this, which probably happened in less than a second as time is so different there, I was getting closer to the light but turning away from facing it watching this on the earth and souls leaving the material. I had a feeling of such love for all beings, and such sadness at the pain and confusion by those who couldn't see this love and light but had died; and those on the earth suffering, these emotions were so unlike anything I've ever experienced. So strong, and I realized too, that our emotions - that love and compassion is what ultimately holds everything together, all is love but, like the clouds of energy above many, we just don't see it. It does not mean though that it doesn't not pervade all that is, and is in every atom and molecule.

My heart seemed to leap out wanting to help ease the suffering of what I could see I just wanted to help, to let all experience some of this love and light that I was basking in.

With that thought, the experience changed immediately I felt like on a rollercoaster falling over the top, moving faster than light itself.

That was the last of the experience. I awoke from the coma in December 2004 about a week after the accident. I had been resuscitated a few times. I also had emergency surgery a few times. It was said I would never walk or talk again on December 3, even if I survived. I walked unaided out of the hospital with no drugs or support package on December 23, 2004. The stats for my mortality were 75% day one, 90% in following two to three days. Yearly 20-30% mortality every year since. 0-5% chance of communicating/walking again thereafter, then with difficulty.

It took me a year of many, many repeated tests and such like to persuade the Driving Authorities in the UK Medical Department that the recovery had happened. I have a letter from their medical department stating that even though what happened it is obvious this is the case, and I have again a full driving license.

I experienced an Epidural Hematoma three times. I was not found until at least five hours after the event and already at Glasgow coma scale of 2-3 when the paramedics arrived. I had half of my skull removed to deflate the pressure, and to access the bleeds, which made me crash two times within admittance to the specialist department. These events are very dangerous anyway and carry high mortality and long-term disabilities. To say mine was at the extreme end of such an event is to put it mildly, as it was three times and initial surgery did not work and the length of time until treatment.

The fact I walked unaided with no painkillers and with no support package out of hospital less than one month later, or two weeks from waking from coma in the specialist intensive care unit with half of or most of my right skull removed is in itself some proof that the events were extraordinary.

I did also experienced for a couple of days after waking an awareness of non-material beings in the hospital, the same sorts of beings that I experienced in the NDE. Some beings were bad, some were good. I no longer am aware of them. I could almost see them. Sometimes now I get a feeling that a particularly powerful good or bad one is near.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Nov 28th - Dec 5th 2004

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Surgery-related. Direct head injury.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Glasgow coma scale 0-1. Coma for seven to eight days. Life support. Intensive care unit. Resuscitation. Emergency Surgery three times.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All of it, but especially so when close to the light and beings, seemed foggy or weighed down in the void bit. Not alert just aware and watching when chasing the ambulance in the initial NDE like an passive observer.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time is an illusion it is very different there one second could be millions of years and vice versa, thoughts and movement are not contradicted by time in spirit.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It is so different description is futile.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     Maybe the initial void.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     See main narrative.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   See main narrative.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Initial Void and Light.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, Compassion, Peace, Joy, Fear, Purpose.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Everything that you do to others you will experience yourself from their point of view, there is no you and I, just all is one, but in this lifetime our perception limits it to our experience of this body. We are all 'God' experiencing itself from different points of view. Animals are important to, they feel, all beings that feel pain or pleasure are in your hands, it is the right thing to do to never cause pain or be violent. Always show compassion. Love others as you love your own eyes.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Blocked, unaware, of what saw. However have had some quite strong intuition/psychic at times since, no control over that, always right. No such experiences though for past one or two years.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Strong RC catholic in youth. Lost faith in teenage years of organized church. Strong though continuing beliefs Buddhism and Karma. Currently Practicing Karma Kagyu Tibetan Buddhist.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     More spiritual.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   'As above, all the paths/religions are right if the teachings of love are embodied. Very tolerant. Some people like Italian food some spicy food, all food different tastes.'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     More spiritual.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Has been blocked mainly.  Mostly that everything is love, and we stop ourselves from our habits, thoughts, words, deeds and actions from experiencing and seeing this. We can as humans on this earth plane if we work at it properly experience this love and light of the popular 'God' whilst incarnate. The choice is ours not some separate being entity. Nothing is hidden; there are many beings both good and bad watching us at all times. You are NEVER alone so your secrets good and bad will always come sooner or later.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes As they would for anyone after it.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Words cannot convey most of what I experienced as there is no language to describe it. Also names, language and labels 'separate' things into this and that, the biggest part of the experience is 'oneness' so words do not convey this. Even 'Oneness' implies something else which is false from that plane or state of experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     No control, have tailed off. Mainly Psychic. Some healing ability if I can feel that love again in my heart and focus it. Very hard to do.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Within twenty-four hours of waking from coma.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Live in the west, some things on TV I suppose once or twice, never took any real notice or searched for material. Mainly had been interested in reincarnation and stories on that, not NDE.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     More real than dream world we make with our ego's and anger, hatred, etc. More real than most of my experience since it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     More intense, powerful and profound than any material experience I have ever had.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Spiritual practice Meditation, focusing on the experience of the love in the light. Partial way to becoming one again with all.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Unconditional Love is the only truth there is.   Following the NDE I had many supernatural, psychic and other similar experiences increasing over time as I searched, for the source, to find the "taste" of what I experienced in the Light and love I was merging with before I returned, both in "Religions" and "Paths", including Tibetan Buddhism, Mediumship, Shamanism and the New Age, I travelled and spent a lot of time in India, Nepal, South America, Asia on formal Meditation and Retreats, trainings empowerments and pilgrimages and time with "Guru's" and teachers, spending most days 6-7 hours in formal pyscho spiritual practices, etc of many different types.

  I was having very increased contact and communication with the spiritual world, and apparent Spiritual Gifts or Siddhis, were manifest, increasing and proven many times in many different continents to many different people.

  However, as this continued, trouble difficulties and repeating negative events were manifesting in my life and to those around me.

  I was warned when looking at the image of Jesus Christ on the picture of the Shroud of Turin to "stop" and not do something. This experience was similar but much more clear and stronger than the mediumship and "guides" and "deity" communication which I was having, which had proofs of knowing of people's lives and relatives past present etc, I ignored it and went to find more Gurus, Gnosism for a few years. The warning turned out to be very very true and all the "helpful" and "enlightened" and "love and light" that was communicating with me, with proofs, never mentioned it and I was being led to real danger in every way.

  Searching for on my internal and external Journey for repeated not fairy tale, or Chinese whispers, though wanting repeated proof of the "path" that showed since the "teacher or founder" of that path, to now, of those who follow it with scientific repeated and consistent evidence of it, I was drawn through the Medical Bureau of Lourdes Miraculous Scientific approved cures, and the events of Fatima, to revisit my original Religion Roman Catholicism. The Saints, have for Millenia, and did recently since Jesus Heal the sick, raise the dead, have authority over the laws of nature, breaking physics at times, those without Pupils in their eyes see, such as Saint Padre Pio as certified and shown if you care to research. I couldn't ignore this and the warning I received that manifested.

  I returned and under much penance and being in grace after the sacrament of "Reconciliation" and meaning it, I experienced during the Receiving of the Most Holy Sacrament of the Altar in Communion something similar, to what I experienced, though briefly of what I was merging with in the NDE.

  All the so called "guides" "helpers" spiritual new age entities I was receiving gifts siddhis and such like, info on past present, mediumship etc where not happy at all and started to infact work against me a lot in every way. They are really though they come as an angel of light, those things I saw that where not nice taking souls down.

  Many times since, if I am truly in grace, that is confessed of all sins properly, received reconciliation, have no desire, plans to, would rather die as such to Sin, have prayed much, done fasting penance, done everything to change the habits and what is wrong in my life, mind and body, only interested in my relationship with "God" I have experienced when receiving Communion of the Holy Sacrament of the Altar the exact same "taste" "nature" "feeling" "Experience" that I did during the NDE when I was merging with that Love/God.

  I can Testify that all the "Bliss" of higher yoga tantra, very profound meditative compassion practises, all the "feelings, emotions energies" of all Spiritual entities that came to me, in my searching, nothing none of it even comes close to what the experience of the NDE was. The only place I have experienced it is being in Grace, being a very serious not part time, Very Traditional Catholic, fasting, prayer, penance and receiving the Eucharist, the Eucharist of the Roman Catholic Mass if you are in the right place yourself, is exactly what I experienced in the NDE.

  I have had to battle much to stop the tricksters and lure of supernatural entities and their gifts, powers etc, since doing that, I have since now occasionally had communication help from the True Guardian Angel, all you read in modern culture about angels is untrue the work of the tricksters, like Mediumship. True Angels unfallen are very serious if loving, very traditional not new age, and are as in the bible not anything else, they will if real admonish and be prepared to humiliate you if you are offending god and demand reparation, if you really want to not fall after death to hell. They are interested in your Soul and God not your ego or what makes you happy from window shopping of being "spiritual" not "religious" and our other prideful ways.

  In the original NDE account I stated there is no Heaven and Hell, I should have proof read it, before submitting, that was not info from the NDE it was the things I was studying liking at the time my spin on it like "The Secret" "all is mind" etc in the experience, I clearly show and state there is a place that souls go down to, in a not nice state and I did not know why I was not being taken there for "endless" rounds of their thoughts etc, I see and have been told since that is the teaching of "the worm that never dies".

  That point of the knife edge I talked about, will be in your life if you are 50 or under and live a normal life span, unless the world really gets its act together and does as asked in Fatima. Anyone who has eyes can see that and ears to hear at the moment. God does not want that. We do create it as such ourself, by us serving the evil ones ourselves or not living life as we should, when we offend God, as sins increase, we as a world come out more and more from under the protection of God, and the Holy Angels, and the Evil ones have more reign, legal rights and power, we get what we worship and give power to. You are never ever alone not one moment of your life, good and bad in the spirit world, choose wisely indeed.

   Be scientific find one path religion that has proven nonstop and continued evidence of what was said by the originator, in ways that is impossible medically, and proves control over the laws of nature. The Saints, The Blessed Virgin Mary Fatima, Lourdes etc. Nowhere else has it continued nonstop in one path as far as I could find. The exact experience of my NDE the God experience, loosing myself is found where I said, and nowhere else in any way close to it. Please be aware the evil one is in and trying to take down as well the Church as prophesised, to understand what I am talking about in Roman Catholic Church, beyond modern scandals and such like I am a very Traditional Catholic Practitioner, if you look up what that means if interested it is the difference between night and day. In the Eucharist if you clean up, get your act together, make reparation, mean it really, it is the Peace Beyond all Understanding, our Lord Jesus Christ, God made flesh in humility to take us back to what I experienced in the NDE Daddy God as such. May God Bless Protect Guide you and yours, and have Mercy on your soul now and at the time of your death.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1justin_u_nde.html