{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1justin_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Justin M NDE 3699","mylang":"de"}
          	        Justin M NDE 3699  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Justin M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1689 Justin M NDE 3699  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Me my dad and some relatives were at the Renaissances fair, in Lebanon, Pennsylvania. Since we arrived there late. We found ourselves waiting in line. I don't really remember what exactly everyone said to each other, since I was only three years old. From what my dad told me, a bee started buzzing around his head. Carelessly forgetting about me, he ran letting me fall to the stony ground. My dad told me that he, my grandma, and brother ran up to me. My dad was shaking me slightly to try to keep me from falling asleep. Someone called the ambulance. As they arrived, my eyes looked to each side and then slowly closed. I only remember feeling like I couldn't move.

I then almost instantly found myself in complete darkness. It was a strange darkness. I mean it was dark, but I had no trouble seeing the area around me. Suddenly, I felt this presence in the area with me. I then said in a normal tone 'What is this? Where Am I?' My reply back was 'You have suffered an injury, and that is why your here.' I then tried moving. I struggled to move from side to side, but couldn't. I literally felt like I was being held still. The being was so strong that I couldn't get free, (I don't mean that in a scared way). I then said 'Why are you holding me still?' The being replied back 'I have to.' I replied back 'Am I gonna be alright?' In a loving, fatherly voice the being replied, 'You'll be alright.' And I do mean it was in a real loving voice. I guess it was that way because I was only a three year old. When I think about the voice, I kind of get emotional, and even as I write this I feel like I want to start crying.

Suddenly something that I have a very hard time describing happened, but I will try. This window or hole appeared in front of me. It was almost like it manifested, meaning it appeared out of nothing. In the entrance, or hole I saw my dad, and the doctor standing around a metal chair, which I was apparently on. I told the being that, 'I didn't wanna go back,' and I wanted to stay with it. I was told 'You have to go back, I have plans for you!' It didn't say it in a mean way or anything. I told it that I loved it and got an, 'I love you,' back. Then suddenly it was like I was fading back through this window into our world. I went through the chair and a soon as I was in my body my vision faded back, and I was awake.

I remember knowing something strange just happened to me, and only being three I didn't know what to make of it. I remember the whole car ride home I was just thinking about what just happened to me. I guess through the years I just forgot about this experience. It seems, as I have gotten older, I am starting to remember these things, I guess God's helping me. The two biggest things that strike me to this day are the darkness even though it was dark seemed like it had a striking light in it, and the being I was with was very loving and fatherly. I will say one thing; that God does work in mysterious ways, and I will never forget this experience. I feel honored and loved to have had the chance to be in God's presence. Why do I think it was God? Well the being was loving, and I had a feeling of being safe.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'June, 1992'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Direct head injury    Other I feel from my dad's shoulder on to rocks and was knocked out.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At the experience it was like I wasn't even three years old. I didn't have a child voice I had an adult voice. I don't know if it was my true self there, but I wasn't childlike at all.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     In the area I was in nothing happened. There was no noise or anything. I didn't hear God coming up to me I just felt his presence.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I had this grayness in my vision even though it was very vivid.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I really didn't hear anything but the being's voice and mine. Other then that the area was completely silent.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     I was in a completely dark area. When I returned I went though a window almost.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     God.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Yea in that the darkness seemed to be glowing, and no that I didn't see a being of light or anything like that. I even tried to turn around to see the being but it stopped me from doing so. Maybe the saying 'No one can see the face of God and live is right'. That might be why the being or God stopped me from seeing his face.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I think the dark area were I went was some kind of dimension.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Curiosity, a feeling of being awake, a feeling of being safe. I felt loved.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   I was only five so didn't participate in any religious activities.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Well I have always been a Christian, but with all these experiences that have happened it only strengthens my faith.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Well I have always been a Christian, but with all these experiences that have happened it only strengthens my faith.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   Meaning God didn't tell me anything about the universe. I was only three.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Yes! God is all I think about. Every single day I think about God. I don't even try to, and when I am alone I think what God might be thinking. I guess you could say I am constantly aware of God's presence.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   The end part when I was sent back into this world.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     People think I am nuts but I have this weird ability to sense the presence of spirits. I always feel like there are people around me.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I remember feeling safe, and even though I was being held by the shoulders I remember a feeling of being hugged. I also remember how loving of a voice God had. He had a very fatherly voice.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    As I have gotten older and have prayed to God for help, I suddenly started remembering these things. It took me seventeen years to remember these things. I have told my brother but he passed me of as crazy.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   I didn't have a knowledge but seemed to like being around graveyards, and still do to this day. I feel more connected to the spirit world more than I do this world.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I was only three and didn't know what to make of it. Some part of me knew something have happened; I knew I just experienced something. The weird thing is I seem to remember thinking that I just meet God.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Well since I was three at the time I didn't really understand fully what had happened. Now being almost twenty-one years old and how far I am into spiritually and the afterlife, I now have the knowledge to understand what had happened to me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   Nope I was on nothing.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       From what I experienced. That saying that God works in mysterious ways is a hundred percent true. I felt LOVED, and SAFE when in his presence.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1justin_m_nde.html