{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1justin_m_nde_7131.html","mytitle":"Justin M NDE 7131","mylang":"de"}
          	        Justin M NDE 7131  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Justin M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3603 Justin M NDE 7131  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was involved in a very bad car wreck. I hit a truck at 90 mph head-on.  After the impact, I faded to black into what I call a void. It was dark, black, empty and wide open. It was the most peaceful and calm feeling I ever had. I knew with just one thought I could travel through the void and I was about to shoot myself into it when I heard a voice say, ‘Stop, don't go, it’s not your time,' and 'You still have a job to do.’ When I turned to see who was talking it was my mother, she died when I was 6 months old. 

I told her that I didn't want to live and I wasn't going to go back. That's when she said ‘you can’t go yet, you have things to do first’, I didn't care and I turned back to go when she said ‘look’, when I turned I saw a woman holding a child, my mother told me this was my wife and child. My mother then told me all the major details of my life up until I die at age 47. Then she told me that was my path and try to follow it, she also said my choices in life would affect my path. That's when she showed me the major choices I had to make and what would happen as a result. 

She showed me five different life paths. At that point, I was ready to go back to my body and continue my life.  She told me when I went back I wouldn't be able to remember what she told me and she was only able to tell me all that, so that I would return to my body. Before I went back, I noticed that a lot of people (or spirits/energies) had gathered around us, just standing around watching. I turned to go back to the wrecked car my body was pinned in but as soon as I started to move, I woke up in the car. 

I didn't remember any of this until about a year ago. That's when it all started coming back and it hasn't stopped yet, the crazy part is everything she told me has happened. I can’t include every detail in this; it’s just a basic summary.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  10-10-2005

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Suicide attempt. Direct head injury    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was involved in a very bad car wreck.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I saw myself trapped in the car, I saw my uncle at the door of the car he was trying to stop the bleeding with his shirt, and I saw him and myself from maybe 30 yards away.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       From the moment I entered the void to the moment I left, everything was clear, it was like I could be me: the true me.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     I felt like I was out of my body for hours.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was real, more real than a dream or daydream, more real than life itself.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Super clear, it’s almost like I could see the sound and feel it throughout my body.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw my deceased mother, my now girlfriend’s deceased dad and twin sister, which at the time of my NDE I had never seen.  I saw a lot of other people all of whom I didn't know.

The experience included:       Void

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No     It wasn't a world it was an endless void and I knew I could travel in it by just thinking.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, joy, calm, happy, sad: for the time I was out of my body I felt every emotion.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No     Only when I was told, did I understand everything, but when I understood, it was with great clearness.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     I saw every possible outcome of my life and when it would end.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Atheist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Atheist

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Not in my values but in my beliefs, I feel I know where I'm going when I die, I know it’s not bad, I don't fear a hell, as now I know the only hell there is, is when we as ‘energy’ refuse to let go of our past life.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     yes i lived here on earth before and other planets

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     yes all energy is one and when free from the body you can travel through it at will.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God does not exist

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     yes as i understood it "god" is the supreme energy over the earth and those who live here, but he isnt the god that religions say he is.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I know what happens in my future.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     as i understood it, we chose to come live a human life for the experiance. its not deep or mythical, its like playing a video game.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife does not exist

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     yes, i know when i die i will go back to the void and be free to go where i choose or i can come back to earth and live another life if i finish my job here on earth and dont kill myself.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     well, after i started to remember my NDE i also started to remember my pre-birth life, i can remember everything that happened from the time i died in my last life until i was born, i also retained that knowledge into this life, but knowing my future and the bad things that where to come drove me crazy, at age 5 i asked "god" to take my memories of the future away and "god" did it was only after my NDE did i remember. i did tell my dad all i knew when i was 4 and he told me dont tell anyone or they will think your crazy.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     yes i was made to see that it isnt as bad as we think, the difficulties, challenges, and hardships are part of the thrill.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     yes, love is the main reason i came back, its the best part of earthly life,and the feeling of love is what bonds us on this earth and after we leave it.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life     Slight changes in my life, after I remembered I felt good about life and knowing what the meaning is.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, but my experience was so large and long it’s hard to pin down one point, it was all greatly meaningful me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Last year I told my uncle a small part of it, just that I had left my body and saw things. I was warned about telling people close to me what I knew because since I had seen my future life I would know things that would happen to the people close to me and if I told or warned them it would cause bad things to happen.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had heard of them, but I didn't believe. When I was in the hospital after my wreck a group of doctors came in and asked me if had a NDE, I told them no.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definately not real      I didn't remember my NDE until years later.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     At first I thought I was crazy, but I wrote my NDE down in great detail; and as time passed I started seeing the things I saw and had written down come true. That's when I knew, without a doubt, it was real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   I don't understand the question      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1justin_m_nde_7131.html