{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1june_w_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"June W Possible NDE 8052","mylang":"de"}
          	        June W Possible NDE 8052  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					June W Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			4185 June W Possible NDE 8052  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was rushed by ambulance and immediately into the resuscitation room.  I had a lot of pressure, pain, and blood loss.  They found it difficult to find veins for IVs and blood drawing because my veins had collapsed.  I was aware of everything going that was happening.  I was able to give them details of my operation and what medications I was taking.  After they cut my nightie and underwear off, because they were completely soaked in blood, I begged them to let my husband in the room.  I needed to make sure he didn't frighten my pregnant daughter with the news since she had high blood pressure.  At this stage, my blood pressure was very low and my heart rate very high.  I held my husband's hand, looked up into his face, told him that things were really bad and that I was 'going.'  He tried to be reassuring but I felt I was slipping away.  I told him I loved him and then everything went black. 

 Quickly after that, I saw white light but was not aware of any sound or of medical staff taking him out of the room. 

 My husband told me that as soon as I told him that I was going, my arm and leg fell off trolley and my eyes were fixed open.  The next thing I remember was a heavy weight on my chest as if someone was sitting on it.  My head was pushed back and the oxygen mask held very tightly on my face by someone.  I felt like I was going a hundred miles an hour on the trolley along a corridor.  I briefly remember giving my date of birth in the operating room.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  18.02.2016

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related.       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   I had surgery initially on the 1st February with a hysterectomy, ovaries and fallopian tubes removed plus repair. Extreme pain ensued and the medical consultant was contacted on three separate occasions.  They even scanned me but missed that I had post-operative bleed that ultimately caused a massive hematoma that burst through stitches, causing me almost to bleed to death.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Brightest whitest light  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   Normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I hemorrhaged at home and the paramedics arrived, I was able to relay all of my personal details and history; also then when I was in resuscitation and I pleaded with them to let my husband into the room.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I have no idea what happened during this unconscious period other than seeing the light.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Normal

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Normal

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     It was an extreme tunnel shape of bright light but not a defined tunnel.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Bright light that was tunnel shaped but not in a defined tunnel structure.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Fear and sadness, at what I was leaving behind.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   Non Church going/non praying

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I pray briefly each day.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant   Stronger belief and praying

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I never understood the tunnel of light previously.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe that someone was watching over and protecting me.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably does not exist

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I moderately fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Family unit is a lot closer, prioritizing things that mean more to me.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Family unit much closer and more valued.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.    It was traumatic and memorable.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        My survival

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared with my family the next day.  They believe me as they were all traumatized by what had happened, especially my husband who saw me 'dying' on the trolley.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     My husband witnessed everything happening before my body went limp.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know in my heart it was real and I am still unable to sleep.  I'm currently having counseling.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1june_w_possible_nde.html