{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1june_t_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"June T Probable NDE 2524","mylang":"de"}
          	        June T Probable NDE 2524  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					June T Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						798  June T Probable NDE  2524  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I remember that I could no longer get any air in. I felt that I was like a drowning victim. At first, it was hard to get air, and then I went to a dark place. I saw a life movie of me when I was a child, and I saw my children crying over my coffin but they were much older. I saw my sisters fighting over my clothes at the closet. Then I went to a burial place, saw my body being disposed of, felt the mud hitting my body, and I smelt the dirt that was covering my body. Then all of a sudden I heard a voice that said do not give up and I opened my eyes and I still couldn't breathe but I was not struggling for the air.

The voice spoke to me and said don't give up. I looked down and I saw the man's testicles hanging. There was a light down there. I said to myself what am I supposed to do? Remove these things? The voice said, 'Yes.' So I asked the voice for enough strength to help me. I did. He fell on top of me out cold and I rolled his body off me. I got away and ran for help. The police came.

I was being strangled by the rapist's own hands. The newspaper got a hold of what had happened and I have a newspaper article of the event.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 8/2/1987  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Criminal attack       Other I was strangled by a serial rapist  I was being beaten, strangled, yelled at to die.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I seem to feel things differently now and can predict things and I am always on alert.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When the voice talked to me and seeing the bright light.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I could not get air and then all of a sudden I saw darkness then a light then I saw the movie of my life.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw myself, my children, older than what they were at the time, and my mother and my sisters.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   After the darkness was a bright light, it started small then went to a movie.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     he was buring me in a ditch.and covering me up with mud.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I first felt confused then I felt fear then I felt comfort and at peace.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control     I believe that there is something that protects you, I still really don't know what it was but I think it was my angel. I am more grateful to be alive and I know that something is guiding me to do the things that I have done, help change laws, etc.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From personal future        Pretty scary I see things and they come true.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I do believe that there is something that is stronger than this world, I just don't know if it is a man or women or what??? I could not see the face or body of my savior.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I do believe that there is something that is stronger than this world, I just don't know if it is a man or women or what??? I could not see the face or body of my savior.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Unidentifiable voice     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I feel things strongly now and if I say something to someone all of a sudden it comes true. Like my sister's death, I knew that she was in trouble and I could not get a hold of her. The next day I got a phone call confirming my worst nightmare that she died, if I was to have went to her house I could have saved her life.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I feel vibes from them so strongly that I cannot trust all people like I used to. I go with my gut feelings now and it takes a person a long time to get close to me.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I get a lot of feelings that are strong and can feel something is going to happen then it does. I have to watch out what I feel; sometimes praying to make the feeling to go away, so it won't come true.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Just the voice. I still want to know what it was or whom it was or was it me, trying to save my own life. Subconscious?  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I got mad at my boyfriend because he had borrowed my car. I started to get a bad feeling that something was wrong with my sister. I called all around so I could get my car from him back - so I could go check out my sister because of this feeling that I got from out of the blue. When he got home late, I yelled at him for being late. Then I told him that I felt like something is wrong with my sister and I could not get a hold of her by phone. He said go to my sister and I said no because it's just a feeling and went to bed. The next morning I got a phone call from my niece to tell me my sister had died at 10:30 the night before. Other things have happened like that, like lights going out on me, and knowing of cars doing things, etc. Rob said that he was amazed. He said he is influenced and is at ahh...  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definately not real      Because I could not talk with anyone about it for a while until I knew what had happened to me. I was in shock for a while and was heavily medicated for a while by doctors because of the nightmares.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It happened to me and I have a clear view of what happened to me. I came to peace with it knowing that I am not alone and there are others and I am not crazy. I have a different point of view of life than others. I have been blessed and was chosen to go through this for a reason. However, I am still trying to figure out what I am supposed to be doing with this experience now.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I still do not know what saved my life that day - what or where did the voice come from? I am still searching - I may never know.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       If people hear voices could you help them figure out where the voice came from because I know that if wasn't for that voice I may not have opened my eyes and save my own life. Also to provide counselors that have experience with NDE so they don't put their own opinion on what the voice is.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1june_t_probable_nde.html