{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1june_j_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"June J Probable NDE 463","mylang":"de"}
          	        June J Probable NDE 463  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					June J Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						1282.5 June J Probable NDE 463  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					On September 20, 1988, I had a complicated C-section, two blood transfusions, and went into shock. They delivered the baby.  

Then I went to x-ray to prepare for more surgery I heard the nurse talking and she said that I probably wouldn't make it through the surgery. They though they cut the tubes to my kidneys. Now I have a lot of scar tissue.  

My son had a difficult time at first, but he stabilized.  I was so sick; I didn't even know I had a baby.  I thought a truck hit me. I looked like walking death, so people told me. Then 6 weeks after that, I had a tubal ligation. I felt sick for a long time, but everybody me told me it's harder to have a baby at the age of 38. Since I have a very high pain threshold, I didn't say anything. 

When I finally went to the hospital, I was very sick with a bowel obstruction that needed surgery. They knew I needed the surgery right away, but were worried that I needed to prepare for the surgery.  Then time ran out, they had to perform emergency surgery. On my way to the operating room, my family met me at the elevator.  

That's when I remembered the experience of my spiritual being floating 6 feet above the shell of my body, lying on the cart. I felt wonderful, secure, and peaceful. It was beautiful. I could see my family looking over the shell on the cart and I was wondering why they were crying. I wanted to let them know I was o.k. But I couldn't speak. I was thinking in my mind, 'don't worry it's o.k.' I don't know how long it lasted but something was gradually tugging me back down. 

I was thinking, 'no, no! I don't want to go back. I was talking to someone but don't know who it was. I KNOW I didn't want to be back, even though I wasn't afraid to come back.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  April 1989

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    bowel obstruction  Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Going to surgery after waiting too long.  I didn't know a bowel obstruction.  It seemed like they couldn't operate until they made me fear for my life.  Due to severity of the problem, they finally too me to surgery.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was floating about 6 feet above my body I could see my shell of my body.  I saw my family around my body crying.  I was thinking, 'don't cry it's o.k.  That shell has no feeling.'

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was in and out of consciousness. I remember seeing my family at the elevator before they took me into the operating room.  I couldn't figure out how they got there so fast, even though they were an hour away

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I had a feeling of unlimited space. It was all mine.  I was free.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       When my spirit was up in the air, I was feeling wonderful, peaceful, tranquil and serene. There was no reason for words or an explanation as to why I was there. I was safe and secure.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No   That answer is 'no.' I remember NOT wanting to come back.  It was like a gradual draw, a very slow tug then gently placing me back on the table.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I'm not afraid to die. I took care of my mother, who recently passed away. I did prepare her emotionally to die. She was very afraid.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     My grandmother was interested in the paranormal.  I don't know if there is such a thing, but she believed in her dreams. She was usually right.  The dreams mostly involved her family. The dreams continue to get stronger than before.

  After my experience, I seem to know when my loved ones are in trouble or having problems. Once I had a feeling that a train hit my daughter. It bothered me all day.  I tried to shake the feeling but let it go. Since I don't see her very often, I hadn't talked to her. Two weeks later she told me, 'Oh mom, I forgot to tell you that I almost got hit by a train.' We figured it out and it was the same day I had the feeling. 

  When I worked in the nursing home, I always seem to know when somebody was going to pass away. Nobody believed me at first. They got so they did. When I used to say so and so won't be here in the morning, so if want to say good-bye, you better do it. They did because I was usually right.  

  I wish I had good vibes. It doesn't seem to happen that way.  I never seem to know when I'm going to know. 

  When I was a senior in high school, I heard on the radio that one of our friends was kill on a bus. I called everyone that knew her.  I was told that she's fine.  One week later, she was killed in a car crash.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The feeling of serenity and being safe

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    No negative reactions because others have heard of others with situation like this.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1june_j_probable_nde.html