{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jun_fde.html","mytitle":"Jun FDE 7654","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jun FDE 7654  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jun FDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification FDE  			3934 Jun FDE 7654  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I heard a whizzing sound of the opponent's punch cutting through air. Then everything started to slow down and I felt my body become weightless. At that moment, I saw two people fighting from the ceiling.   

Age: 0 (1962) born as a premature baby, Age:  10 (1972) helped a white owl, Age 20 (1982) met a white light, Age: 30 (1992) increased visit to shrines, Age: 40 (2002) went to protestant church, asthma cured, Age: 50 (2012) understood what higher-self is, Age: 60 (2022) ?

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  33年前

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         ボクシングのスパーリング中の瞬時の体外離脱体験  Other 体験後、金縛りが2~3月続き、その後白い光と出会うという不思議な現象を体験  During my OBE, not a life-threatening event but I continue to experience the phenomena beginning from my birth every 10 years.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I heard a whizzing sound of the opponent's punch cutting through air.  Then everything started to slow down and I felt my body become weightless.  At that moment, I saw two people fighting from the ceiling.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The straight right of my opponent missed me by an inch right next to my left ear and I heard a 'boom' sound.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     I came to know later, that time zone of consciousness is closely related to another dimension.  That understanding came from my strange experience at the age of 50 when I figured out about higher-self.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I felt that I was looking down from the ceiling but it was such a brief moment.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard the sound of my opponent's straight right clearly and I felt a chill down my spine with the thought of 'I might die.'

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   After this experience, sleep paralysis went on for a few months and saw a white orb (approximately 45 cm) appearing near the ceiling of my room (I started being aware of another self).

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Strong emotions such as 'I am not giving up', 'I am not going to die today'.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I came to know later, that time zone of consciousness is closely related to another dimension.  That understanding came from my strange experience at the age of 50 when I figured out about higher-self.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     After the experience, when I was 50 years old, I started having strange dreams often.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Buddhist   Just a typical Japanese household with Buddhism/Shintoism background (not so religious)

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I came to realize that we would not be saved unless another part of us, which is light and not contained within the physical body, connects with Christ and rotates as an axle as same as the universal.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant   After knowing the truth, my faith on Jesus Christ became stronger.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Technically speaking my experience is not considered as NDE.  It is more like a spontaneous OBE but I think that the experience that I had when I was 20 years old was modified by my other self.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I realized that Jesus Christ is 'the way, the truth and life'.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I felt like it is a being from another world (dimension) but at the same time it is I.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       It took me 30 years to understand the meaning of life and cosmology (see the manuscript for details).     It took me 30 years to understand the meaning of life and cosmology (see the manuscript for details).

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I feel less attached to things/people.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I felt it as unworldly.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  Spontaneous OBE and meeting a white light happened more than 30 years ago but I can still remember it vividly and not like other daily events.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I started having strange dreams after my experience at the age of 50, not at the age of 20 years old. I had a dream about earthquakes and some of them came true afterwards.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Existence of higher-self

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I spoke to a several people more than 10 years later but I was shocked to hear that someone from a protestant church said to me that 'the white light' is a devil.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     At first, I tried to believe that it was caused by some brain damage from boxing but because I had sleep paralysis and met a white light.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have realized that Jesus Christ is our true higher-self and our true Lord, which is what human experiences are all about.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   When I turned 50 years old, I experienced as if time stopped in the last 40 years and finally understood that what higher-self is and what 'all is one' means.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The body of the serpent of Ouroboros is made of just a tiny part of phantom, fading waves in the 0.5% of the cosmic energy.  [Editor's notation: Ouroboros (or uroboros) is an ancient symbol depicting a serpent eating its own tail, signifying infinity or wholeness.]

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I would like you to know and investigate that these experiences can happen not only from near death but also under normal circumstances and it is quite common.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jun_fde.html