{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1julio_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Julio M NDE 2231","mylang":"de"}
          	        Julio M NDE 2231  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Julio M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						812  Julio M NDE  2231  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

Memoirs of My Death

Puerto Madryn, Chubut, Argentina


Winter 1976, very cold within the context of a very complicated family life and in my personal life I desperately sought some other way out. Always taking work with more responsibility and professionalism than necessary. As the one in charge of quality control for production of a factory, the foremen, with a directive from the management, wipe out my classification for materials to be discarded, reclassify them as good, and send them on out to market. They put a guard at the door to be on the lookout for me. To catch them in the act, I went to the plant on a Sunday at 2:00 a.m., walking more than a kilometer through fields, in the midst of a snow storm with winds at 180 kilometers per hour with gusts of 220 kilometers per hour and minus 22 degrees Celsius. Of course, I arrived with my ears and extremities beginning to freeze - there is no clothing that can deal with such extreme conditions. The wind gusts blew me over several times and I returned to a standing position as well as I could my grabbing onto the scant vegetation of the area. I succeeded with my plan: I caught them erasing the red crosses and putting on the green marks - a crass mistake - the manager of the plant was the head of the gang doing this because his job was on the line because of all the defective material. The ultrasound detector did not fail nor did my sight.

To keep from freezing I went up to the furnace nearest to my office. The furnace had an internal temperature of 800 degrees Celsius and was probably about 50 degrees at the distance where I was at. I stopped next to it without perceiving the vast difference in temperature. At 7:00 a.m. I left with a fever, went to bed, and at around 7:00 p.m. my companions found me delirious in my bed. They took me to a social service clinic in the city that was famous for its cesarean births that took the life of several young women. A nurse checked me in and, frightened by my condition, called a 'doctor'. It seems like everybody who is a failure goes to live in the south. (Translators note: Chubut is in the south of Argentina and has a reputation as a place people are sent who are failures of one kind or another.) The doctor said to the nurse, 'This one is ready to die, he will not last the night.' Give him a shot of Novalgin, a well-known antibiotic at that time, but whose name I don't remember now, and 'Give him serum.' The diagnosis was 'bronchopneumonia'. Well, the doctor was brutal, but he was on the right track because, truthfully, I didn't last the night.

At about 2:00 in the morning I 'woke up,' because of an insufferably loud whistling sound, and I saw a luminous silhouette, flawless white, that transmitted to me a beautiful sensation of peace. It was a very special light in that despite being intense, it didn't radiate, it was dense and concentrated - everything else surrounding it looked black in comparison except for some reason I was unable to see myself in the bed, as if I were outside the building, up by the roof. Submerged in confusion, I tried to ask for help. I saw the nurse in a room of a distant building I wasn't familiar with given the fact that I had come to this place in a coma at night. I could see everything perfectly. The nurse prepared an injection and I prayed it was for me, but she passed by my room and went to the next. One of the people in that room was about to die. I knew it and it happened a few hours later that same morning. I visualized whatever I wanted to see with an incredible mental and conscious clarity. I saw through the walls, simply by thinking about it. I saw my life pass by and felt the desire to stay in the midst of this immense peace. Something told me, 'If you want you can go. You still have a lot left to do. It's your choice' - and I came back. Immediately, my arms were free of paralysis. I lifted my hands to my ears but the sound had already stopped by then.

Starting from that day, my life changed 180 degrees. That was only the beginning of my out of body experiences. Today, among other capabilities I have developed, I pass through the veil at will. I travel throughout the universe. I learn information and give help to whomever asks for.

Background Information:    

Gender:    Male  

Date NDE Occurred:    Invierno de 1976  

NDE Elements:    

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Illness    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) .  My heart stopped.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

The experience included:      Out of body experience  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Yes, I can see absolutely everything I want to see simply by wishing it. I travel at the speed of thought. There are no limits of time or space. I can go through walls, see people, know what they are doing, and know past and future events and, apparently, 'change' them (this is what I am investigating now), visit other dimensions or planets, etc. But there is something I still cannot control: I can't willfully control the whole mechanics of events. I still lack some knowledge.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      At all times after leaving my body. Shortly thereafter, and regaining my health, I started repeating the experience involuntarily. After that, and due to the internal conflict that premonitions cause for me, I began having these experiences voluntarily, with the goal of experimentation. I'm looking for a scientific explanation, and I believe I'm on the right track.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   In each experience. Space and time are relative to our dimension but have no meaning at the Universal level. The truth is, it's as though we were seeing a 'virtual' universe of movies. We can go forward or back in the various film sequences or 'holograms' of different dimensions or pseudo-realities.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid  

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    There are no limits because I don't see with my eyes.  

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    With the first experience, moments before leaving my body, I began sensing a very shrill whistle sound in my head that became unbearable when I left. Once I was on the other side, it no longer bothered me. After the first experience, the whistling stayed in my head 'permanently'. I hear it all day long, as if it's connected to a network of data. At times, it increases in volume - and at that time, I have the sensation of receiving information. If I'm sleeping and that sound goes off I know I am going to the other side and I let myself go.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     Personally, and after studying it for years, I think the phenomenon isn't a tunnel. What happens is that we are accustomed to relating the event with valid descriptions from the terrestrial point of view, but 'things are not as they seem.' It requires a long explanation, but I believe there isn't a tunnel. Rather, the light we see is concentrated and drawn into an enormous gravitational force that will not allow it to escape. The perimeter looks like a 'black hole.' This gives the appearance of being a tunnel - but it isn't.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     During several trips I have encountered family members, friends and strangers. I travel to other dimensions where I see different kinds of beings. I receive information about my past and future (this is what led me to investigate how to change the future, because I was preoccupied with it), I travel to subterranean installations where I see people working, etc.  

The experience included:      Darkness  

The experience included:      Light  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   I consider this light to be myself, my eternal part, permanent, immortal, outside space and time - a tiny piece of God, my higher consciousness, etc. It's difficult to define, but I am a part of the light and permanently connected to it. I can communicate with it. I find it difficult to give a definition because I neither have nor have had any religious belief. I'm looking for a scientific explanation. I believe it is closer to the concept of a Matrix or an ultra-supercomputer, than to Christ or Buddha.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Lo he descripto en puntos anteriores. Otras dimensiones, otros seres. Lugares extaños, planetas con mares muy densos (parecen de mercurio) sitios bajo tierra (tal vez en la zona del Amazonas) en los que veo gente igual a nosotros, fetas de grandes árboles y mucha actividad laboral. etc.  

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Peace, love, total consciousness, transmission and reception of information, of being outside of time and space, unlimited movement at the speed of thought, etc.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world  

The experience included:      Special Knowledge  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe       

The experience included:      Life review  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I reviewed my life instantaneously.  

The experience included:      Vision of the future  

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     Many are extremely precise, others not so much. I know that 'all the information is available' - filmed beforehand with all possible variations, but it is somehow 'encoded' for us. What I am still unable to do is find a way to 'decode' it so it has some use for us in saving human life. I would like to get in contact with people who have the same abilities in order to exchange information. From what I can tell, the film of the future that I see is the 'most likely to occur given the circumstances.' I see things that are both complex and simple. 'Good and Bad' from the terrestrial point of view (on the other side there is no good or bad). I don't feel like saying here which of the future events I can see are most important, but the emotional impact on me was great, very great. The question I ask myself is should I allow these events to happen? Who would believe me if I told about them beforehand? Who do I tell? What assurance do I have that 'the flapping of the butterfly's wing' produces a change and the event doesn't happen because 'the future was changed'? How can all this be proved?  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:    

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes     I never had religious beliefs. I continue without them. I believe everything has a scientific explanation. Quantum physics, string theory, etc. I do not believe in mystical or religious explanations. I do believe we all see what we believe, whatever validates or deepens our beliefs. The problem is that when we come back from an experience, we continue thinking as humans, as products of our sensations transmitted by our earthly senses of space and time.  

What is your religion now?      Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I never had religious beliefs. I continue without them. I believe everything has a scientific explanation. Quantum physics, string theory, etc. I do not believe in mystical or religious explanations. I do believe we all see what we believe, whatever validates or deepens our beliefs. The problem is that when we come back from an experience, we continue thinking as humans, as products of our sensations transmitted by our earthly senses of space and time.  

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:    

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   It would take hours to explain it. But yes. We can think about it as being in some kind of 'school or virtual game.' There is order and chaos. One is impossible without the other. Everything is made up of the same thing. Neither space nor time exists. Nothingness does not exist. There is no beginning or end. Our 'memory' is outside our physical body and is Universal. I also acquired certain abilities to help with healing, but I still don't know how they work.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  My whole life has changed. The way I treat people, my philosophy of life, etc.  

After the NDE:    

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   The whole experience is difficult to express in words.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I have already described it in other places. My whole life changed, and on occasion, I discover abilities I didn't know I could develop. I think everyone who has had these experiences should try to repeat them. They can do so voluntarily and without fear. They will discover marvelous things. I think everybody has my abilities, but they are hidden by what we consider 'reality.' We live anesthetized, confused, in the hologram of the Matrix. For me, 'knowing' about certain daily events has become commonplace, to the point that at times I cannot recognize that what is happening is not common, until someone points it out to me. At times, I can 'read' the thoughts of other people, find hidden objects, etc. But as I said before, I can't evaluate this or discover the scientific methodology that will allow me to systematize this knowledge. I attribute this to my need to 'distract' myself and 'involve' myself with living a 'normal' life because I do not consider myself normal. Given the fact that I need to earn a living with my 'terrestrial' work to support my family, I don't have time to get deeply involved with my studies. It seems like the things I can 'see' cannot, should not be done, or I do not know how to utilize them for my own benefit. My earth experiences are 'very strong' and at times I feel very 'tired.' 'Practicing at home, I have been able to use the information given to change future events. I do this on a small personal level, or in connection with a small circle of people or group. I have also seen things, which could be changed, modifying the course of human history but could I? Should I? I can say that at times I feel 'guilty' for not doing anything about this. One time I told a newspaper contact about a serious future event, and when the 'reality' showed me to be right, the contact didn't publish it. Before, I felt I didn't have permission to change things. Now I believe I have permission, but I don't have control over the techniques, I don't have 'terrestrial' time, nor do I have access to information that could help decode the data.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       In the first experience, the desperation and fear at the moment of leaving my body - the sound, my paralyzed body, and the inability to receive help from the nurse who couldn't see me. I felt like I didn't want to leave. Then, when I saw the light, everything changed. With my first subsequent experiences, I was left 'emotionally' very sensitive. The greatest emotional impact happens when I:

1. Tell about one of my experiences.

2. When some significant premonition happens.

Despite the fact I know I am not responsible for what happens, the fact of knowing that the future can be changed and perhaps avert some catastrophe, makes me feel bad.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    The day following the first experience, I told a friend. He was greatly impressed and told me: 'You were dead.' I didn't tell anyone else. For many years, I kept it hidden, with much suffering and feelings of guilt, until I found myself at the edge of insanity. Then I began to do research. Later I decided to unburden myself by telling some family members, colleagues, my doctor, and friends. Most of them were incredulous. But they all 'thought about it.' A few confessed to having some kind of experience and others knew of someone who had such an experience. It's common that when someone suffers some personal or family misfortune, a few of them come to me for relief. I am able to make people feel comfortable and they confess all kinds of things to me. I can see things through their eyes. On occasion I have been able to effect a healing if someone asks for help out of desperation.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     Always, from the first moment, I experienced it as 'real.' I had complete consciousness. I could see everything, move, go through walls, and make decisions. The only thing I couldn't do was 'manifest myself' to other people by any physical method.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     Especially since I can repeat it and acquire knowledge. I ask and receive answers, etc. (I have already explained this.)  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   I can reproduce the experience many different ways, but I don't need drugs, or substances. I only need to concentrate and be at peace to have it.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I would like to reiterate that I am seeking a scientific explanation because I know there is one and I would be grateful for any assistance in expanding my knowledge in order to help humanity.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      I think questions 19 and 20 are wrong.

For question 19: The being of light I see is myself. We communicate by thought, there is no voice.

Also, my light told me, 'If you want, you can remain here, but you still have much left to do. If you want, you can go back to earth. Then I returned.

Question 20: Things are not as they appear. They are NOT the spirits of the dead, but rather the permanent part of them. Regarding the religious figures, we can say that, 'each person sees what he believes in.'

I think there are several questions that are not asked well, where I cannot mark two choices, for example in the first two points of question #35.

I have given suggestions for improving the questions above. It's too long!!! I'm tired of writing. Many thanks. I hope this topic is treated in a useful way. Kind regards, Julio.   				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1julio_m_nde.html