{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1julie_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Julie K NDE 7069","mylang":"de"}
          	        Julie K NDE 7069  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Julie K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3561 Julie K NDE 7069  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					July 27, 2013.  It was a beautiful summer morning.  I was traveling to work as usual and took the highway.  There was a great song on the radio so I was singing.  As I neared the slight bend in the road revealing the Blue Mountains, where I say a quick prayer every day, out of the corner of my eye I noticed motion at the stop sign.  It was the biggest tractor pulling a 'dump' that I have ever seen.  The tractor started to cross the highway.  I assumed he was heading for this turning lane to straighten his vehicle out as I passed.  Unfortunately, that was not what he did.  

In a flash he bee-lined it across double yellow lines and attempted to run right through me as if I wasn't there, because he didn't know I was there.  From the time I realized he was heading for me, and the time of impact was only a second or so.  I had just enough time to say aloud, 'Oh God please save me!'  I had nowhere to go (a car to the right of me) so s-c-r-e-e-e-c-h, I hit my brakes and crashed.  As I believed the window was going to come at me, I closed my eyes.  

Just as I anticipated feeling pain, instead I had an experience. I felt as if I was going down a slide except it was horizontal.  My stomach jumped like the feeling you get in a real fast elevator.  It felt like a slide because it was sending me toward this void in the darkness of a glowing white light.  I think I was only unconscious for 30 seconds or so. Traveling quickly toward the light, I thought it was a crack under a doorway. I remember thinking, 'there's no way I'm going to fit through there'.  Think of sitting in a dark room with which the room next to you having the light.  This is similar to what I was barreling toward, only it was a long rectangular-shaped box of light in the middle of complete darkness.  Just as I was to enter the lighted void, I went under the doorway (so to speak) and into an instant state of euphoria.  It was like, 'ah-h-h-h-h, this is nice.'  It was as if all my senses were pleased beyond normal: almost a complete all-over orgasmic experience.  I do not remember any smell or noise though: just a warm, comfortable, relaxing, euphoric feeling beyond words, which was absent of all pain, worry and ugliness.  It was also happy beyond words. Then I woke up.  

It has taken me 5 months to begin telling people about this experience. Thanks for reading.  Julie

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  072413

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Direct head injury.    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Traveling 60 mph down the highway, a huge tractor with tires as big as my car, driven by a 15-year old boy crossing the highway did not look to see if anyone was traveling down the highway.  The result was tire to tire contact which probably saved my life.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Just before I passed out

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     All I could see was darkness with a void of light, so it was like black and white, except the white was strangely illuminated.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I actually stopped hearing just as the NDE started.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     It seemed like a tunnel that was not enclosed.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A warm white light that was illuminated beyond a trillion LED lights.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Take all the ugly bad things about our world away, and add the best sensation to your senses, and that's where I was.  I was not out long, so maybe that's why I didn't see anything else.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       At first 'worry' over the small opening I was heading for, then when I hit the light it was an emotion of 'relation', 'happiness', 'worry-free' and complete comfort that goes beyond any words I have.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant   I am not a church goer, but I believe that God created the earth, etc.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am surer that God exists.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Uncertain

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I moderately fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     Moderate changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Uncertain   Uncertain   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It has taken me 5 months to be comfortable enough about the incident to admit to anyone what I saw when unconscious.  But now, I do not have a problem expressing it in words.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    5 months later.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Not much as far as details, but I have heard some stuff about them.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1julie_k_nde.html