{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1julie_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Julie D NDE 2142","mylang":"de"}
          	        Julie D NDE 2142  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Julie D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						576  Julie D NDE  2142  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            Experience Description :   

  I was having difficulty breathing. There was a doctor to my left and two nurses with him. He was injecting my IV and asking me why I couldn't breathe. I was now lying flat on my back looking at the ceiling. I had an oxygen mask on my face and it was becoming more and more difficult to breathe. Other nurses have now entered my room, one is to my left, and she takes off my oxygen mask and holds that thing on me with the big blue ball type thing. She is yelling at me to breathe saying, 'Don't do this,' as she says my name. I look up at the ceiling and suddenly I knew I was going and it was okay.

For a moment in time, everything seemed to freeze. My entire body just froze; maybe it was for a second. Then the most amazing, most incredible feeling, if you can call it that had come over me. I want to try to explain this feeling. There was no negativity at all. None. No longing. No missing anyone. It was pure. If there is pure love, I had touched it. I was still totally alive although my body was not. My spirit was as vibrant as it is right now, maybe more so. I could see that one nurse trying so hard to get me to breath. Then I heard the heart-alarm go off. I knew I wasn't alone. It had to have been only seconds and I felt something pull me back.

What made this experience so life altering is I felt so guilty afterwards because once I came back, I didn't want to be here. I didn't miss my children. I wanted to stay where I was. So I find myself to this day searching for this 'love' which I fear I will never find.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 February 2000  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I had been bleeding internally and had a second surgery to stop it. I was recovering when I went into respiratory arrest, stopped breathing and then cardiac arrest.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It would seem that things were more defined, clear.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I believe I was the entire time.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       This is the most difficult to put into words. There is no word to express it. Pure Love. No negative. Nothing dark whatsoever.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   I was a firm believer in Jesus Christ  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes       

What is your religion now?       Moderate   I no longer believe in Jesus Christ but have a faith in God that no one can take from me.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   This too is difficult to explain, but you seem to return with a certain knowing. You can't pin point it to a certain question but when the question comes you will know the answer.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am not in contact with anyone who does not believe me concerning this experience. That includes my best friend of twenty years.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     When I returned, during my recovery two 'spirits' stayed with me in my room until I was well. They were clearly there to do a job.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        This experience has totally changed my life. I am not the person I was before it happened. It is as if my spirit was renewed. The down side of it is that it has changed my views on Jesus, which I grew up believing, so that has been difficult.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I believe it frightens most people and they don't believe me. It is rather a lonely feeling.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was dying. The doctors knew it. The nurses knew it. I had this experience and two weeks later, I was healed. It was real. The nurses called it a miracle.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1julie_d_nde.html