{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1julie_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Julie C NDE 2752","mylang":"de"}
          	        Julie C NDE 2752  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Julie C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						938  Julie C NDE  2752  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I was accidentally given an overdose of morphine by a medical doctor at a different hospital. The next thing I saw was four people dressed in green with green caps, coats and face masks - doctors, and I was in what looked to be a large operating theater. Even though I was looking at them, they didn't seem to know I was awake. I watched them give me an injection in the chest, which felt like they had stabbed me with a red hot poker. Then I was watching from above, a woman who was dressed in a long Victorian dress of a brilliant blue and a man also dressed in Victorian attire - black it was at night on a cobblestone street that was the color of red/orange clay, in a city somewhere. The street lights were candle lit and it had been raining. There was a puddle of water and the man took of his outer coat and placed it over the puddle so the lady could cross. The colors were so brilliant - I have never seen colors that brilliant to this day and I had a very content feeling, no fear. My memory is as clear today as it was at the time this occurred.

They told me after that they had to keep me on a heart lung machine and that I remained in a coma for six days. A doctor at the Royal Prince Alfred hospital came to see me a couple of days after I awoke and explained that I had died and asked me if I had seen anything, so I told him what I have just told you.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1970  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.         Accidently overdosed with morphine by a Doctor at another hospital  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Everything was crisp and clear and the colors were so brilliant.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was watching the lady and man.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was short sighted but at that moment my vision was one hundred percent and as I said above everything was super clear and crisp and all colors were brilliant.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I didn't hear any sounds at all.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     A man and a woman that I didn't seem to know - I was just there watching them from above, I didn't hear any voices.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place     A city in another past century  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       None.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     Yes - that there was no need to fear death, you just went to another place. I knew it wasn't my time to go and that I had to take stock of other things in my life first.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     I knew I had important things to do in the future.  My job was to take care of two of immediate family at the time of their deaths, such as to sign the medical papers to remove active treatment so they could die. One was a transplant donor and to be with them while they died. Unfortunately I didn't get there in time for the third one and as a result he has been living in a dementia unit for the last four years he is only fifty-three years old.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Catholic non practicing  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Catholic non practicing  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I had important tasks to take care of in the future but at the time I didn't know what they were.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I learnt that life as we know it is short and each new day is a wonder and to appreciate every moment we have together.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I was given the gift of great empathy for other people and total acceptance of myself and others.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        None.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    A couple of days after I awoke from the coma, the doctor seemed very accepting of what I told him in response to his questions. I have only mentioned it to a few close friends just to let them know that there a nice things waiting for them after death, not to be frightened of it, and not to be sad about their loved ones that have died.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I have not experienced anything more real that this in my whole life.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I just know one hundred percent that it was real.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       There is definitely life after death.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Add colors.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1julie_c_nde.html