{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1julie_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Julie B NDE 22687","mylang":"de"}
          	        Julie B NDE 22687  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Julie B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3041 Julie B NDE 22687  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was twenty-one. My husband and I just finished making love, when all of a sudden I found myself in the worst pain I've ever been in. I felt like I was going to throw up and have diarrhea all at the same time. I went to bathroom. As the pain increased, I fell forward. My husband caught me and laid me down on the floor. He left to call 911, that's when all of a sudden I was standing on green grass. I believe I looked forward and saw my dead grandmother and my dead cousin. I felt no more pain; there was a brightness behind them. I felt happy, loved and realized I must have died. I said wait, I can't be dead I haven't had any children yet! Then I was back in my body, I awoke still with pain, my husband helped me to the couch and waited for 911. 911 only took a couple of minutes, but by the time they reached me the pain, and other symptoms were gone. I felt one hundred percent better. The paramedics took my blood pressure it was normal. I was normal, just as if nothing ever happened. We went on and had three beautiful girls, all healthy.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  July 4 1989

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening.   I'm not sure. I had been using speed. I believe that is why my body shut down.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    I saw my dead grandma and cousin, and knew I must have died.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was unconscious.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My grandmother and cousin.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   There was a light behind my dead grandmother and cousin. It was very bright and felt warm.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I do remember feeling warm like the sun was all around me.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt such love. No pain. Happiness and peace.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I knew I wanted children and hadn't had any as of that time.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I didn't feel like I had any choice. But I really wanted to have a baby.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   I knew there was a God but didn't study or go to church

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I used to fear death before this happened to me. Not anymore.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The worst part was the pain before I went. The best part was seeing my relatives, and feeling like I had made it to heaven.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my husband right away. He knew I wasn't lying, but he just ignored my experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It's a very embarrassing way to have this type of out of body experience. This is why I don't go around telling everyone.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       All questions seemed to the point.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1julie_b_nde.html