{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1julian_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Julian D NDE 4592","mylang":"de"}
          	        Julian D NDE 4592  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Julian D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2317 Julian D NDE 4592  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was forlorn in my life and had wanted to die. I was a passenger in a car that was hit by drunk drivers. I recall nothing of my passage through the veil, but have vivid memories of where I went. It was a place, a domain that I knew right away was a transfer station - a place where beings go when moving between realms. It was like a city of crystal structures and verdant green trees and vegetation.

I went into a huge, huge beyond comprehension, perhaps dome-like structure where one would go to meet with enormous beings of light/energy/color to do the life review. I cannot describe the feelings of awe and wonder that I was immersed in.

During my life review, I understood that I had hardly begun to experience what I had incarnated this time to do/learn, and that I had a choice either to go back to my broken body as an adult, or to await another incarnation to pick up where I had left off. I was shown what was going on with Earth people at that time/place where I had just left, and what would be taking place over the next roughly fifty years. I decided that I did not want to do a re-run of my childhood and young adulthood again, and to return to the damaged body.

I returned to the body in the hospital, which had been unconscious for a week. I was told that my mother was by my side. I opened one eye and asked if it would be okay to return and if life was worth living. She said, 'Yes,' and I slipped in and out of consciousness for the next several days, when I began to adjust to the healing process with the body.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'October 10,1980'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I was killed in a car crash.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I was in the crystal city, transfer station.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was in the crystal city, transfer station.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It is not a place of 'time' as we experience as physical beings on Earth. The phenomena of 'time' is unique and specific to this physical dimension we call 'life on Earth.'

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Lucid vision.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I didn't 'hear' with my ears. All information was simply transmitted through consciousness connection.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I don't recall the typical story people relate of moving through a tunnel and into the light.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Many beings were present in the crystal city or transfer station. Beings from all over Creation. Beings going about their own business. And there were the Great Masters of Light (whatever you want to call them), of which there were perhaps nine or twelve, with whom we experienced the life review.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The crystal city, the transfer station that I described above.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Joy. Wonder. Understanding. Awareness. Vast awareness. Comprehension.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     A complete, thorough, impossible to describe comprehension of everything that I experienced, felt, said, thought during the entire duration of my incarnation to date.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I was shown what would be unfolding with humans on Earth over the coming fifty or so years. I have been back in this body now for thirty years, and everything is occurring exactly as had been shown - in relation to the larger picture of where Earth and the local humans would be headed. This is a time of great transformation - as had been described/shown to me during the life review.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   'Raised in various Protestant churches; grandfather was a Fundamentalist lay preacher; I had been searching on a spiritual path since teen years - everything from various meditation and yoga techniques, initiated in Sufi practice, some years studying ''Great White Brotherhood,'' Edgar Cayce, mystic Christianity, Spiritualist, indigenous shamanism, etc., etc., etc.'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   See my description above.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I continue to want all humans to be awake and aware of the continuum of life, both in and out of body. Being with other humans has a certain manner of loneliness for me.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   What I experienced is difficult to describe in words because even though I can tell the story, where I was, what I did there, what the place was like - I cannot give you the feeling, the veracity of it. It is SO REAL.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I returned to this body with a full blown psychic intuitive sensitivity - which I spent some years getting a grip on. It was out of control for some years. I had to learn how to manage it.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        For me, it was all about the transfer station/crystal city and the life review process with the ensuing decision to return to this body.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I first shared with someone who wrote a book of channeled material titled, 'The Law of One'. That was about eight months after the experience. Then, about twelve to eighteen months after the experience I was invited to talk about it as a presentation to about a hundred people. One of the people present came up to me afterward and told me about walk-ins and told me to read a book about it.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Keep in mind that I was in the hospital for a month with massive head injury, brain damage. Then I was six months at my parents' home learning how to function as a self-managing human. I was navigating brain damage dementia. I didn't know how to talk about what was going on with me to anyone during that time. I was in quite an altered state. Very psychic and in and out of normal consciousness referencing.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The whole experience was very familiar while I was having it. I had done it many times before. I returned being aware that this physical incarnate experience is transitory.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No. I have written about it in different ways many times. I have talked with people about it over the years. It is a vast subject for me. And it is very simple, as well. The Buddha, The Christ and others have all summed it up in very simple terms. Be here now. Love is all there is. Life is a dream. The vastness. Source is beyond our comprehension.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1julian_d_nde.html