{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1julia_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Julia M NDE 2120","mylang":"de"}
          	        Julia M NDE 2120  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Julia M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						553  Julia M NDE  2120  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            Experience Description :   

  I remember that day I reached the Light as if it were today. It is so clear in my memory as if it happened this very morning.

I recollect hearing my mother and my aunt crying, and Pepe, the training doctor saying that if I did not improve that there was nothing else they could do. And suddenly, do you know what happened? It was frightening. I saw the ceiling of the room falling on top of me and I remember putting my hands before me in order to avoid impact but I suddenly realized that it was not the roof falling on me, but that I was leaving my body. I saw myself lying on the bed, with my eyes closed and my mother and my aunt crying saying that I could not be dead. Pepe said that he was sorry, but that there was nothing else he could do for me and I remember I was saying: 'Mother, aunt, do not cry, I am well, can't you see it? I am well, please look at me, I am here, I am fine, don't cry, don't cry I am well, but please listen to me, don't you hear me?'

Realizing that none of them heard me, I saw a beautiful white light similar to a beautiful sunshine, but that light did not glare. On the contrary, I perceived a peace I cannot express with words. I will not be able to define the sensation in feeling like this. You feel nothing, no cold, no warm, no weight, no pain, no happiness no sadness, it cannot be explained, and this is something you have to live to know how it feels. I felt so good that I decided to walk in and find someone to tell my mother and my aunt to stop suffering - that I was very well, that they were not to cry for me as it hurt me to see them cry and that I did not want them to cry. I wanted them to see that I was very well.

When getting to the light I saw a man who radiated peace and tranquility, but when I was next to him, he stopped me and said, 'No, you cannot come in. Your time is not now yet. Get back you still have to fulfill your mission on earth.' I don't know how, but I went back. I remember I woke up in bed and Pepe said it was a miracle since it was more than one hour since the cardiac arrest. I don't know how I came back but I won't forget the sensation even if I live to a hundred years, I will never forget it.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 En el año 1965 más o menos  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Allergic reaction       Other Me pusieron antibioticos sin saber que era alérgica y entré en coma.  I was given a Penicillin shot. They did not know I was allergic and I went into a coma. I was in the hospital for some time; I do not remember how long I was there since I do not remember anything about hospital. I know what I was told, but I had no idea that I was there and my mother seeing no improvement, and believing that I was to die, decided to take me home. She said that she did not want me to die in a hospital since they will perform an autopsy and that she would not be able to accept that.  I was taken home under her responsibility, this is what I have been told because I was in coma and I was not aware of anything. I was treated with shots, I don't know of what, and I was taken home to die in my house with my family.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was conscious all the time. It was not a dream as when I left my body I saw my mother and my aunt crying. It is not that I heard them crying but I saw them crying.  I then saw the light - it surrounded me. I don't know how to explain it as I entered it; I remember I was weightless, I had no pain, no anguish nothing, only peace. A peace that cannot be explained with words.  When I saw that man I was not afraid, even if that would have been natural since I did not know him; he only transmitted peace and the message I have put in my experience.    

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     It was not a tunnel, I saw myself lying in a bed and out of my body. I went beside my aunt and my mother to console them, but they did not hear me. Afterwards I saw a light, it was a very white light like that of the sun but it did not glare and I went toward it.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw a man that radiated peace and tranquility, but when I was beside him he stopped me and said: 'No, you cannot come in, your time has not come yet, go back, you still have a mission on earth.' I have never seen this man, I cannot describe him, only that he transmitted Peace and that I did not want to leave.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was a very white light like sunlight but with no glare at all. On the contrary, when I walked into the light I only felt Peace. I don't know how to explain that feeling. I call it peace, happiness, tranquility, I don't know how to explain it, I don't believe it can be explained, it is something to be felt to know how it feels.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Emotions? As I have mentioned, there are no words to explain what the feeling is. This is a PEACEFUL feeling that cannot be expressed with words. You have a body but no weight, no pain; no anguish no nothing, just peace.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     What I learned after this incident is that it is a transition from life to death, nothing traumatic but only a Peace and wellbeing feeling that cannot be explained with normal words.  Even if you feel very well there, it does not mean that I want to die. On the contrary, I think that life has given me another opportunity of living and I try to live the best I can.  Since this happened I have experienced strange things as premonitions, to see persons that were already dead but I did not know it in certain cases; in other cases I knew they were dead, this only happened with my grandmother, but I cannot be sure if it was real or was because of the love I felt for her. For me it was real, but since I knew that she was dead, I cannot be so sure. The other persons I saw I did not know they were dead.  My life changed somewhat since I developed, let's call them powers, that I did not have before and that I did not want to have.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     Things as premonitions, but normally they are bad things that are going to happen. I have seen people that are already dead but I did not know. Things like that.  During a season in my apartment in Leganes lights turned on by themselves. I finally sold the apartment. Even after having the lights inspected the phenomena continued to happen.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Era muy pequeña, por lo tanto no tenía muchos principios religiosos.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate   No creo en el Dios que hablan las religiones, creo en Dios a mi modo de ver.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I don't know how my relationships were before that happened since I was very small, but now I normally do good unto others and I try not no harm anyone. It is as if I do it to myself.  I try to help those that ask for my help the best I can.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   It is not difficult to express it in words. But it is difficult to explain with words the feeling you have when you are there. It cannot be explained with words. It has to be felt.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     As I have already mentioned, I know when people is going to die. For example, my father died on June 12, 2004 and I had a presentiment approximately one month before. His fiancé was sick and I also had the presentiment of her death and afterwards my father's death.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The feeling of Peace and Happiness while I was in that condition.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have only talked of this with my family and friends. I have only made comments on this.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     After it happened, when I woke up in my body again, I told my mother and my aunt not to cry that I have seen them crying and suffering for me, but that I was well. I am not so sure if it was immediately after I woke up in the body or if some time elapsed. That I don't know because I was very small.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I see it as something that happened and that I would never forget. I have not experienced again that feeling of Peace I felt there; there is nothing comparable to that.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I will repeat my experience in case I forgot something. I wrote it some time ago to improve it.

  My second life started when I was four. I had a tonsillectomy since I was very sick and I ate very little. They decided to have me operated on. At that time medicine was not advanced and techniques were not sophisticated. I remember I did not eat the whole day and I was very hungry when I went to be operated on. It was not at a hospital because at that time this operation was ambulatory with many people around me. I perfectly remember that my uncle went with me; I remember I was tied with a kind of sheet to the operation seat. Something was put in my mouth to keep it open and there was a cut. It hurt terribly. I will never forget that pain. I remember when going into the alley where my aunt was waiting that they told me not to shout, but I did shout and cried because it hurt so much. After all this crying and shouting, I suffered a hemorrhage that almost killed me. It took a long time to stop it and in order to avoid an infection they gave me some shots.  When arriving home they asked me if I wanted to eat and I only said I just wanted to die, I did not want to hear about food. It hurt so much that I did not want to eat. I remember they put me to bed and I have no other memories of that day.

  I have been told some relatives came to visit me but I don't remember that. The following day the practicing doctor was called to give me the shot I was to receive, so he came and gave it to me.

  Until that day, I had not had any antibiotics because I had not need them, so they had no idea that I was allergic to them. In fact, I was and when I received the shot it was combined with something else and I went into comma. I was in the hospital for some time, I don't know how long since I don't remember this.     			    			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1julia_m_nde.html