{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1julia_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Julia J NDE 4599","mylang":"de"}
          	        Julia J NDE 4599  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Julia J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2322 Julia J NDE 4599  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I fell onto a playground area. I saw myself sitting on top of a climbing frame, observing my body on the ground below. My grandmother, who had been deceased for several years, was with me. I remember my mother was present, crying and being comforted by a neighbor. I wasn't feeling any emotion; it was a very detached feeling.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  4/70

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Direct head injury.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   A witness to the accident had turned me over, causing me to aspirate blood and cease to breathe.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   During the time I was out of my body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the time I was out of my body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could feel the emotions of my mother and others at the scene.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was a certain kind of telepathic communication between myself and my grandmother.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My grandmother was with me. I knew her, although she was deceased since I was less than two years old.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   There was light all around, and surrounding my grandmother.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       There was no sadness, fear or negative feeling. There was no pain. Only calm acceptance.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I have always had a very intuitive nature, I can't say if it was related to this event.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     As a child, I was taught that God was some powerful force who punished us for wrongdoings. I now know that God is a loving forgiving entity that we can always turn to in times of sadness or trouble. I have a strong belief in God, although I don't attend or believe in any church doctrine.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   none

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     As a child, I was taught that God was some powerful force who punished us for wrongdoings. I now know that God is a loving forgiving entity that we can always turn to in times of sadness or trouble. I have a strong belief in God, although I don't attend or believe in any church doctrine.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I understood that life happens the way it is supposed to, and that we are more than our bodies.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes When I find myself feeling stressed or helpless, I remember that we are not alone, we are supported and protected by a kind loving force.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It had a dream-like quality, although it was a very vivid experience that I have never forgotten.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I am able to 'read' people quite well. I'm intuitive, and able to understand a person's nature without knowing them well. I can't say for sure if it's connected to the event.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The strong sense of peace and calm that I was surrounded by.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my mother a few years later. I told close family members and friends. Some people are skeptical. I sometimes share my experience with some of my hospice patients who seem afraid at what is to come. I think it comforts a person to know someone who has had this experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real      I was unconscious for many days, I felt foggy for weeks afterwards. I thought I must have dreamed the whole thing.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The experience has stayed with me forever.  Even though it happened almost forty years ago, I remember it well.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1julia_j_nde.html