{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1julia_b_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Julia B Probable NDE 5428","mylang":"de"}
          	        Julia B Probable NDE 5428  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Julia B Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3182 Julia B Probable NDE 5428  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was a three week old baby at the time.  But during my near death experience I was an adult. As a baby, I had suffocated. I have no memory of an OBE (Out Of Body Experience,) but I know exactly what happened during the NDE. I remember flying over a beautiful landscape. I saw a bright green forest, which seemed endless. I felt totally weightless and I had a strong feeling of invulnerability. I could see everything around me without having to turn my head. I could look behind me, straight ahead, and up above myself. Then I saw a bright light, like the sun except that it did not dazzle me. The light was everywhere! Suddenly I had the sensation of falling deeper and deeper. I landed on a stone floor and the impact stopped my fall, but it did not hurt.

First I just closed my eyes, but after a while, I heard a voice calling, 'what are you doing down there? Get up!' I opened my eyes and saw someone who reached out his hand to help me up. When I was on my feet, I noticed that I did not have one scratch. I was OK. And I also noticed that there were other beings wearing long robes. These beings said to me, 'It is wonderful that you are here!' but I couldn't see their faces. Further away, I could see the forest from where I had come. I asked myself, 'What is behind that forest?' The being who had helped me onto my feet responded that behind the forest is a wonderful little village. The being didn't speak; it was like telepathy. When I was near that being, I had a feeling of security and happiness, simply indescribably good. Suddenly, all the beings started moving in the direction of the forest. But the being that was helping me paused and asked, 'Are you coming with us?' I responded, 'Not yet.' I knew that, if I went with that group, I wouldn't be able to come back. Having made that decision, suddenly I found myself floating high above.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Juni 1992

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Ersticken durch eingenes Erbrochenes  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was near to death because I was lying in my own vomited milk. My parents told me that I had been lying with my face in it. My face was blue and I wasn't crying anymore.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   The whole time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It was another world completely.  Time and stress were not present, as they are in our world.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I had incredibly clear vision. I had a complete view all around myself and the colors were deeper than in our world.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     When I was looking into the bright light, I felt myself falling deeper and deeper, until the impact. I don't know if that was a 'different' area or what.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     After I had the impact with the stone floor, a being was helping me to get up. This being spoke to me, 'What are you doing down there? Come on, get up.' Nearby, there was a group of beings like the one that was helping me, but I couldn't see the outline of their faces. I was enthusiastically welcomed by this group. They said, 'It is so very nice that you are here!' They wore long robes. The being who had helped me to get up told me that behind the forest, there is a wonderful little village. But we didn't talk in words, but more like telepathy; communication through thoughts.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Before I landed on the stone floor, I saw an indescribable bright light, but also not dazzling. It was bright like the sun and this light was everywhere. I could not see anything else because of all the light.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Anfangs flog ich über einen leuchtend grünen Wald, dann sah ich in ein Licht nach oben, welches überall war, dass ich nichts anderes mehr sehen konnte. Dann fiel ich tiefer und tiefer bis ich aufprallte. Beim Aufstehen half    mir ein Wesen, das eindeutig nicht von dieser Welt war. Es wurde über die Gedanken kommuniziert. Dieser Ort, an dem ich war, war eindeutig eine andere Welt. Ich weiß, dass ich mir das nicht einbilde. Diese Welt war einfach wunderschön und lässt sich schlecht mit Worten beschreiben.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happiness, joy, safety, and a feeling of being invulnerable. I felt that I was very welcome in that world.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     It is a pity, but I don't know exactly what this question means. But I have always had the feeling that I had to search for the right kind of love, to search for my soul mate. This was like my life exercise. And this soul mate; I've found him in my husband. He gives my life a sense of purpose.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I knew when I was walking with these beings toward the forest that if I kept on walking with them, I wouldn't be able to come back.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I'm now very stable in my faith because I know there is a life after death and there is something which is much higher than our world.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Christ - römisch katholisch

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I'm now very stable in my faith because I know there is a life after death and there is something which is much higher than our world.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I knew instinctively that our daily world and this world were two places completely unlike each other. I was permitted to know that in this world there are wonderful villages where beings live.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   This experience is indescribable.  It is not of this world. Everything from my NDE is very hard to put into words.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Naturally you don't know if you have a special gift when you are 3 weeks old. But I was always sensitive to paranormal activities. For example, I saw the shadow of my deceased father-in-law, whom I had never seen before. I knew him only from pictures. He was floating across the ceiling in our bedroom and he was looking at my husband and smiling. I knew immediately that it was he.  Another time, my radio started to play in the middle of the night. It had been off, but I could hear voices, but no words. When I turned the dial to change the volume louder and softer, the loudness was always the same, nothing changed. When my mother-in-law had a difficult surgery coming up and there was a possibility that she could die, I had a very real dream. I dreamed about an angel. He said nothing to me, but he made signs to me that everything will be OK with my mother-in-law and her surgery. After the operation, it became clear that it was true!

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        For me, the whole experience is important. I'm very happy that I had this experience, because it shows me that I should have no fear of death and that there is a life after death. I have NEVER been afraid of death. I think that because of the NDE, I was never focused on material things or money, and I'm able to love the way other people often can't. I have gone through my life with happiness and cheerfulness.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    When I had my experience, I was three weeks old. When I was twenty, I talked for the first time about it; first with my husband, and after that, with a chat-friend, who had also had an NDE. My husband listened to me with attention. He believed what I told him because he was also interested in NDEs.  It was from him I learned that NDEs do exist, and that people have been researching them.  After my story, I was very relieved and I started to cry. My husband gave me a big hug. My chat-friend also believed me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I simply knew that my experience was a real event. I knew it immediately. It was an indescribable experience, not of this world. It was wonderful and when I start to think about it these days, I can still feel all that happiness and joy that I felt in my NDE.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Even these days I can remember the smallest details of my experience, and I can feel all that happiness and joy which I had. I really know that I was in a real world, one that exists beyond the material world.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Through this experience one couldn't become a perfect person, but one could be a good person. Life looks very different to the NDEr; one does not look with self-seeking. One is more ripened, more mature. One can enjoy life better and is not fixated on money or material things. These things are useless in contrast to true love and friendship. My husband and I have only a few friends, but our friends are really true ones. One should know that animals also have souls and should be treated that way. My husband and I are now vegetarians due to our love for animals. We are very proud of this and we never regret it, not for a second. As an NDEr you will always be different from the majority.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No.  There is nothing to improve. This questionnaire is wonderful. Thank you for all your research on this!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1julia_b_probable_nde.html