{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1judy_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Judy P NDE 3171","mylang":"de"}
          	        Judy P NDE 3171  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Judy P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1257 Judy P NDE 3171  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had my NDE after giving birth to my son. I had problems throughout the pregnancy. I was told in the beginning that I had miscarried. Then six weeks later through an ultrasound, I found out that I was still pregnant. The ultrasound technician said there is a heartbeat. That was a miracle in itself! From the ultrasound, I found out that I had placenta previa and that I may have miscarried his twin. With placenta previa, if you start to bleed, you have one hour or less to get to the hospital before you bleed to death. I was put on complete bed rest for the entire pregnancy.

During my pregnancy, I had this profound feeling that I was going to die. I just knew. I told my husband and friend about it. It was an overwhelming feeling that came over me on two different occasions. I wasn't afraid. I just knew.

I made it to the thirty-second week of my pregnancy. One night I got up to go to the washroom and noticed there was blood. I woke up my husband and he called 911. I was off to the hospital. I arrived at the hospital and was assessed. The bleeding was actually minimal at the time, so they decided to wait until my doctor came in the next day. The doctor decided to hold off delivering as long as he could because it was still somewhat early to do so. I went into the hospital June 22. On July 1, Canada Day, my doctor came into the room and said we are going to deliver the baby today. He was leaving on holidays and was the only obstetrician/gynecologist in the area. He didn't want to take the chance of sending me to another hospital.

I was prepped for a cesarean section and then taken down to the operating room. They started the epidural. That's when things started to go wrong. They gave me too much of the epidural and my blood pressure dropped. I stared to feel like I was going to pass out and get sick. Throughout this, I felt very calm and peaceful. It felt like there were presences with me helping me through this. My son was born. I saw him for a brief moment before he was whisked away. His lungs were not developed and he could not breathe on his own. He had lost a lot of blood too. The doctors worked on me and thought they had the bleeding under control. I was taken into the recovery room.

My husband came in to see me. I looked at him and said there is something very wrong. I knew that there was something wrong. The nurse looked at him and said, 'She's okay.' My husband left to go upstairs to see our son. The nurse came over to check me. She found that I was lying in a pool of blood. I saw her run to the phone and heard her page the doctor to come back to the recovery room station. I watched the doctors come through the doors. It seemed as though everything was happening in slow motion.

Next, it felt like I was falling backwards out of my body. It happened very quickly. I found myself in complete blackness but I could see. I felt a peace like I never felt before. There are no words to describe it. I remember thinking to myself I'm really here, you do go on. I was still me, exactly who I was on the physical side. Then out of the corner of my eye, I noticed the light. Oh, there really is a light, I was so happy to discover this. I knew I had to go to light. As soon as I thought that, I started to move towards the light. As I got closer to the light, I could see a tunnel. I knew I had to go into this tunnel. The light became brighter and brighter, but it didn't hurt to look into it. It surrounded me and comforted me. I had absolutely no worries or fears. Just absolute peace. I stared to move through the tunnel. I was looking at the tunnel, noticing its color, shape and texture. Also, I was aware of presences at the end of the tunnel. Before I could reach them, I thought to myself 'I better catch myself.' At that point, I came back into my body. I was surrounded by doctors and nurses working on me. I started to go again, but I immediately came back.

Once they had stabilized me, one of the nurses asked me if I had a NDE. I was speechless. Yeah, I said, not realizing what just happened to me. They moved me up to the intensive care unit. I had three bags of blood being transfused into me at one time. One in each arm and one in my neck. I was losing it as fast as they could give to me. I ended up having fourteen units of blood and two units of plasma. As well as bleeding profusely, I was vomiting just as bad. I had allergic reaction to one of the medications they gave me. It got to a point where I wanted to die. I was praying to God to please take me. I had no more fight left. I started feel that slipping away feeling, I was going. At that moment my next door neighbor walked in and said, 'Judy don't go, think of your kids. Don't leave them.' It's a miracle that the nurses even let him in to the intensive care unit, usually it's immediate family members only. He saved my life!

My son Dillon had to be revived twice, they didn't think he would make it through the night. He was airlifted to another hospital, to the special care nursery. The doctors and nurses never let on to me how critical he was. He was put on ventilator and he was having seizures. He had to have transfusions as well.

During this time, my dad ended up in the hospital over on the mainland. We live on Vancouver Island. My dad passed away July 14th, thirteen days after Dillon was born. The amazing thing is, even though Dillon was so sick, he was taken off the ventilator after only five days and he was taken off the seizure medications. Dillon was sent back on July 13th, the day before my dad died. Thank God, he was with me. I was very close to my dad. My mom passed away when I was seven years old, he raised me on his own. I truly believe that part of this experience was to see where my dad was going. Even though I was very sad, he was gone, I knew where he was and I was happy for him that he was at peace.

Dillon was my strength through all of this. I feel very blessed to have had this experience. Thank you for letting me share this with you.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  July 1 1994

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Childbirth    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I had a massive hemorrhage.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   After I had crossed over.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       After I had crossed over.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I had no sense of time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     In life I have poor vision, there I had perfect vision, it's hard to explain.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Complete peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believe in God and in Jesus Christ, more so know.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe in God and in Jesus Christ, more so know.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   A knowing an absolute knowing on a spiritual level, but I can't verbalize it. It's just a knowing deep with my soul.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes More patience with people, understanding and empathy.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The profound peace that I felt. The are no words to describe it.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     We were saved from a car crash, we were heading home from an appointment. I had feeling not to go home yet. I told my husband not to head home yet. We went for a drive and stopped along the water front. I looked up to the sky and there were clouds shaped like the tunnel I saw when I passed. There also was a brilliant light shining through it. I knew we could not leave until it had closed over. We finally left.  There was a serious car crash on the route we would have taken home. The highway was completely shut down.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The profound peace I felt and that we are who we are over there as we are here.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It took a while; it took me a while to process it. It seemed each day I should remember more about it. When I did share, it was usually with patients who had lost a spouse. They were very touched, it seemed to give them hope that their loved one has gone on.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   I had heard about it but did not know much about it.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     This was definitely real. When I crossed over I was looking at myself I kept thinking I'm really here, we really do go on.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I view it as a true blessing and I feel very honored to have had this experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I believe these experiences are meant to be shared. It gives people hope that there is life after death.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1judy_p_nde.html