{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1judy_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Judy H NDE3669","mylang":"de"}
          	        Judy H NDE3669  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Judy H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1670 Judy H NDE 3669  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					On September 15th 1988, I went into labor with my last child. The next day September 16, I was taken into the operating room to have a tubal ligation. I was put to sleep and all of a sudden, I could see myself lying on the operating room table. As I was floating up, I went through a set of double doors and was in a beautiful green field. It had a creek running through the middle of the field on the other side of the creek was a beautiful field of flowers. There was also the most perfect mountain in the field. I was standing far away from the creek but it seemed like I took one-step and was across the creek. It seemed like I knew every answer to every question that I could ever be ask. It was as though I had complete knowledge, which is an important thing to me, gaining as much knowledge as you possibly can in this world. I wasn't alone because at the top of this mountain was a most beautiful city and there were people there. Some I knew and others I could not make out their faces.

As I lifted my foot to start up the mountain and go to the city, a voice spoke behind me and said, 'No you can't climb that hill yet it is not your time.' I can remember that I was arguing with this voice because I really wanted to go up that mountain. I felt that if I could get to the top of the mountain and go into that city that I would be at home. As I was standing in the field, I felt complete love joy and peace like a warm blanket on a cold morning wrapped around you. I just felt so loved and protected. I have never felt that kind of peace before or since. I was still trying to convince the voice to let me go to the city. I started to turn around to see who was talking to me but the voice told me that I could not look upon his face just yet. Then I turned halfway around and I could see my family, my husband, my daughter, and my two sons, my baby wasn't with them.

My husband was leaning up against the wall of the hospital crying and my children looked so sad and asking where their mommy was. The voice spoke and it was as if it was pointing to my husband and said he needs you more than any of them does. Then I started waking up and I could hear another voice shouting out orders as to what to give me to make me breathe and my heart to beat again, they were coding me. As I was coming back to my body and was waking up I was in complete pain, I have never felt as much pain, and it was total all through my body. After a while, I guess about five minutes the pain started to go away.  Even though I can't remember all the answers to all the questions, I can still remember that I had total knowledge and I know that I was looking at heaven, and I was shown where I will be going someday when I really do die and leave this world. It is the most beautiful place that I have ever seen and nothing here on this earth can begin to compare with its beauty and with the complete peace and joy that I felt while I was there.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  9/17/88

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Childbirth    Other Gave birth the day before went to surgery for Tubal ligation.  Stopped breathing and heart quit beating.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   From the beginning to the end.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       From the beginning to the end.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     More vivid in all aspects.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I could see people in the city some of them I knew but I never talked with any of them.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The meadow and the mountain

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Joy, peace, and love.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I started to climb the mountain but the voice would not let me, I only felt that if I had been allowed to climb the mountain that I would be at home.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Baptists

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Baptists

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I had complete knowledge. I knew every answer to every question that could ever be ask.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I don't take people for granted as much anymore. I realize that I can learn something from everyone, and everybody has something to offer this life.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, I feel that when I die that I will be going to heaven.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my doctor that night when he made rounds. He seemed to get very excited and asked me all kinds of questions. He talked with me about it for about an hour.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I know Heaven is real, and I believe that I was shown a small part of it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I still feel the same way.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1judy_h_nde.html