{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1judy_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Judy G NDE 4267","mylang":"de"}
          	        Judy G NDE 4267  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Judy G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2090 Judy G NDE 4267  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was brought to the ER by ambulance.  While in the emergency room, I was awake part of the time and remember being stuck with more needles than anyone should ever be stuck with.  The doctors now tell me that my skin was grey, my heart rate was 20, my blood sugar was too high to read and that they needed to put an IV in my neck with a temporary pacemaker or I would die.  I told them do whatever they needed to do.  That's when every got really far off in a distance.  I could hear voices, but they were so far away. 

There wasn't just one light.  There was a black tunnel-shaped hole with hundreds of white lights literally flying from the tunnel and coming at me, trying to pull me in.  The pull was extremely strong.  I started going toward the lights.  Then something went off in my brain and I mentally blinked my eyes to see if the lights and tunnel would go away.  They didn't go, the pull got stronger.  I was terrified.  I yelled 'NO! I'm not ready! Go away!' 

The next thing I remember was waking up on the table in the emergency room crying from fear.  The doctors started apologizing to me for hurting me because of the tears.  I couldn't tell them that I didn't feel any pain, I was afraid of the lights and tunnel.  I know what that means and I'm not done with my life yet. According to the doctors, I should not have made it, and it was incredible how fast I'm bouncing back.  I was actually released from the hospital the next day, but that memory will be with me forever.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1/12/2010

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Stomach Virus/elevated blood sugar (unreadable)/heart rate of 20, and grey skin.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Mentally, I knew exactly what was happening when the voices faded into the distance and eventually disappeared.  As far as consciousness physically, I don't remember what the doctors did.  I didn't see it.  All I could see were the tunnel and lights.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Being nowhere with a tunnel and the flying bright lights.  There was nothing else at that point.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The tunnel and lights flying towards me, pulling me toward the tunnel were very real, very clear.  The tunnel was way off in the distance.  The lights were pulling me towards the tunnel.  I remember the lights looking like stars.  Brighter than I've ever seen.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was no sound at that point.  The voices of the doctors and staff had disappeared.  It was just me, the tunnel and the lights.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     The tunnel was distant.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calmness at first, then total fear.  I just wanted to go back to the ER and live.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     I've always believed in God and continue to thank him and pray for others who are in pain.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     I've always believed in God and continue to thank him and pray for others who are in pain.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Mentally, I knew exactly what was happening when the voices faded into the distance and eventually disappeared.  The lights were there to draw me into the tunnel and pass on.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I'm much closer to my family and now cherish every moment with them.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    About 6-8 hours later.  They started crying with me because they all believe that I was there and say that the lights were my deceased friends and relatives coming to lead me to my final destination.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Only from movies.  I knew what the tunnel and lights meant.  That's why I was afraid.  I am NOT ready to leave this world.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     There is NO question in my mind about that event.  It was more real that I could ever have imagined.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I may not have gone as far toward the tunnel as others have, but the entire experience scared me beyond belief.  I've seen stuff like this in movies, but I always thought it was just script and that it wasn't based on any facts.  Now that I've been there, there is NO question in my mind at all about the reality of it.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I think it was all covered in the questionnaire.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1judy_g_nde.html