{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1judith_l_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Judith L Probable NDE 6024","mylang":"de"}
          	        Judith L Probable NDE 6024  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Judith L Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2845 Judith L Probable NDE 6024  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I vaguely remember feeling very ill and being put to bed (they did not bother so much with hospitals in those days) feeling very miserable, hot, and that my chest hurt me.  The next thing is as follows: 

I was walking alone in a small valley on a slight incline; above me I could see a clear blue, radiant sky and, although I could hear birdsong I could see no birds nor, in fact, any other animal life. 

I was dressed in yellow shorts and a blue 'rtex shirt with brown sandals and had my long, light blonde hair in pigtails, tied with red ribbons. (I know this because I could see myself; if that makes sense!) 

The whole of this valley was filled with beautiful, tall, slim trees in full leaf, which hung partly over my path, which incidentally was a path in that it looked as if it was quite well used, and wild flowers of all colors and hues.   There was a smell of flower perfume in the air, heady and wonderful.  I wanted to keep on walking up this path, and now I come to what is totally unexplainable. I could feel that someone was there (I could see no one) and that this being was gently telling me (but not in words) that I could not go any further and that I must go back.  My most vivid memory of this is that I did not want to go back because I absolutely knew that where this path was leading was to a wonderful but as yet unknowable place.  I can only say that the feeling that I had then and that I still have now, almost 63 years later is one of ineffable, undying, unconditional love.

My last memory of this incident is that I was standing almost near the top of the path and could see low, sunlit hills coming into view and then nothing more, until I became conscious of lying in my little bed with my parents, grandparents and the doctor all looking down at me and smiling. 

I was told, when a little older, that I had not been expected to survive because my temperature was almost 105F and that the doctor was almost on the point of saying that I had passed on, when I  began to sweat profusely, evidently because the fever had broken.  I believe that I was probably made to stay in bed for a few days thereafter but I do remember feeling very well indeed. 

I do have to say here, that I did have a further experience in 1996, again when I had pneumonia.  They both have left me entirely without fear of death and the unknown and I feel that I have been extremely lucky in being so privileged.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  December 1948

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness.    Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   At the time (1948) antibiotics were in their infancy and I had a very serious case of double pneumonia. They thought that I was dying and I was told afterwards that my family was awaiting what was then known as 'the crisis'. They were waiting to see if I would survive or not.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All the way through it, I believe.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     No change.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No change.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     It was a small valley which could be described as a tunnel under certain circumstances, I suppose.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   The sky seemed to be of a brighter hue than it actually is under normal circumstances.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was too wonderful to be on the earthly plain and was permeated by an overwhelming feeling of all-abiding love.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Ineffable love and longing to go where I was heading for.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No   I was reaching the top of an incline but was being gently discouraged to proceed and just above the top I could see sunlit hills which seemed to be in the distance.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Unknown

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I was brought up as a Christian Protestant and my beliefs were and are that there is a GOD no matter what we call Him, whether we are Christian, Muslim, Budhist or whatever.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     I definitely knew that there is life after death.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I knew I was being directed but did not actually hear a voice.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   I do not KNOW Who it was, but I believe it was Jesus Christ

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I FELT the Presence of a Being Who was gently discouraging my progress and was telling me that I could not proceed

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I just KNEW Someone was there with me and that I had to 'go back'.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No     Too young I think

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I was only FOUR years old at the time, so was not adult enough to be given specific information I feel BUT I just KNEW that I was making towards the place where we ALL go on the cessation of earthly life.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     OVERWHELMING LOVE

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I can vividly remember all aspects of this experience (and I have had others very similar since) but, although I have a degree in English, I still find it extremely difficult to describe the ineffable love, the gentle persuasion and the utterly wonderful, indescribable feelings.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   It was 63 years ago and I remember it as if it was yesterday and, although I do have fond and fairly lucid memories of my childhood, this stands out above it all.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have had many of what could be described as psychic experiences often attested to by others and have no racial or religious prejudices because we are all the same and God is God whatever you call Him.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Overwhelming love.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have told anyone and everyone who will listen often with good result and quite often not. I began doing this as soon as it occurred.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I have always viewed it as a reality and have never had any doubts about it whatsoever.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I had a very similar NDE in 1996 whist almost again dying of pneumonia.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I wish everyone could be as sure as I am about what awaits us after earthly death.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Make some questions suitable to fit various age groups.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1judith_l_probable_nde.html