{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1judith_e_probable_nde_9605.html","mytitle":"Judith E Probable NDE 9605","mylang":"de"}
          	        Judith E Probable NDE 9605  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Judith E Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						5174 Judith E Probable NDE 9605  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

      I had been in intensive care following surgery. I felt like I was fading away and dying.  I heard a nurse keep saying to me, 'You can't die. You have a husband and son who love you.'  

  I was walking with determination towards a tunnel. The tunnel  was dark at the end, rather than  light. I  thought it was like a birth experience. There was  a man in a raincoat who stood with his back to me. After the experience, I thought he might be my guide.  

  Before I could inquire further, I focused on the nurse who kept repeating that I couldn't die. My first  thought was my husband and son could look after each other. I turned round and walked back into my body, though I did not want to do so. 

   I didn't   tell anyone about my experience at the time. 

  As a young woman, I had a marijuana experience where I saw us all as facets of a huge crystal. When I mentioned this to my psychotherapist, I discovered she had  had the same experience. Another experience that I had when a trainee hypnotherapist worked with me was that I was  floating, high above my physical body. I felt  so free and  did not want to return.  When he counted down to '1' I was back in my body.  Again, I told nobody about this for many years since I  had no place to explain these experiences.  
  
Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 July 2001  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related.       Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening.   I was trying to recover from acoustic neuroma surgery  
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing  

  Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes.  No way of knowing for sure since I told nobody.  I lost awareness of my body  
  
  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   A clarity  
  
At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All the time  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I had been in intensive care and was very confused  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Sharper  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Determined to leave lufe  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

  Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will.  The was right about my husband and son, so I returned  to my body.
  
God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated     

  Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I meditate daily following a huge number of physical health challenges  
  
  What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated.   I believe that we are all loving energy  
  
  Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     It was only later that I thought about the man as a guide.  There were no angels.  
  
  Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     No change until I read of the experiences of others. This was validation to me.  
  
Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Uncertain     I felt I was at a border  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

  During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Uncertain.     It was love for husband and son that brought me unwillingly back  
  
  What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life.     Less fear of death. But how do we really know until death faces us?  
  
Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I had no way of explaining this in words to anyone  

  How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  No way of knowing  
  
Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        They all seem significant  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real.     I don't really know what 'reality' means after my experience.  
  
  What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real.     Experience remains so vivid in my  mind  
  
At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No  

     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1judith_e_probable_nde_9605.html