{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1judith_e_nde.html","mytitle":"Judith E NDE 979","mylang":"de"}
          	        Judith E NDE 979  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Judith E NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						424  Judith E NDE  979  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I had this procedure done several times before and what I experienced was totally different than the last time. When I was given the medicine previously I remember feeling a strong jolt and instantly at that time my heart slowed down and was beating normally. I am on medication now that keeps my heart beating with a normal rhythm.  It works beautifully. The condition that I have what is called Aortic Valve Regurgitation (means it doesn't close properly). I believe it is the cause of the rapid heartbeat also. My father had his aortic valve replaced. My grandmother had what they called a leaky valve. There wasn't much they could do for her at that time. My father said she would say, 'My heart is just running away with me.' I feel so bad that she wasn't able to get any relief from it.


I got off the track, but this last time that I was in emergency room, it was handled in the exact same way and the results were the same. However, what I felt happening to me was not the same at all. I saw them put the medicine into my IV and immediately, after I saw that, something very odd happened to me. I have no idea what happened but I will try to explain it the best that I can.


All of a sudden - I was somewhere else. I didn't know where, but I was alone. The room that I was in was gone or maybe I was gone. But I wasn't in it. The doctor and nurse were gone, but they never left. I guess I left, but I don't know where I was. I can remember thinking, 'I wonder what I am doing.' I was not afraid or especially curious. I just went along with what was happening like it didn't matter. I felt like I had left; or at least I had left the emergency room and everybody else. I believe I left my body too, because I couldn't see any of it. I also could not feel it. I just felt very light and peaceful - and curious. I felt as if I was in a recliner heading forward as if the gradient was similar to a plane taking off. I wasn't going straight up but I was going up and forward. It was dark, but not totally black. It was more like a gray misty color, rather like a fog. At the same time, I felt as if I wasn't in the room anymore and was traveling along to somewhere and alone, a noise was part of the sensation. I couldn't hear the doctor or nurse talk or see them. It was just me. As I was going to say, at the exact same time I left and started to move through what was like space, a very strange noise was there. It was like a ZHOOOOOOOOMMMMMMMM. It seemed to last a long time in a way, but I know it really didn't. I suddenly saw something I recognized - a circle of white clouds with a circle of blue sky in the middle. Then it was over and I knew I was back. I was in the same room I had been in a few seconds before.  I remembered the faces of the doctor and nurse and they were just talking normally as though nothing had happened. I really wasn't sure but something very un-normal had just happened and I knew that if I lived to be one hundred and fifty I would never forget it. 

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    not sure.......August of 2000

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes     I had been having tachycardia for 14 hours.  I didn't want to go to the ER again with this.  Finally I was very tired, but knew it would be impossible to sleep with my heart beating this fast, so I went to the hospital as I had so many times before.  I ha  Life threatening event, but not clinical death Arrhythmia and tachycardiaI believe so. My doctor once told me that your heart could just stop beating. Also these kind of heart beats do not circulate your blood correctly and cause the blood to pool and coagulate, thus causing blood clots. This was the reason for the two strokes I had. I could have died from my heart stopping or a stroke could have killed me.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  My consciousness was me and I left my body in that room. I never saw my body or myself lying in bed. I just left or my spirit did. I didn't worry about my body at all. I just didn't have it.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Like I said before I didn't seem to have a body. I could neither see it nor feel it. But I was thinking, so I don't know what to say. I wasn't unconscious, because they never noticed anything (the doctor and nurse). I just know it seemed longer than it probably was but I am sure it just happened in a split second really.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   As I said before, it couldn't have lasted a second but it felt like several minutes went by.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I heard a sound like Zhoooooommmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm. It was a mighty and powerful sound but it was not frightening to me.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No     It was more like I was in space all alone.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   The light was inside a circle of clouds. But it was more like a blue sky that a bright light. I remember I was glad to see the clouds and some light because it had been quite a misty gray before the clouds appeared before me. I was heading right for the hole in the clouds.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No     I think I was between dimensions, but definitely leaving the plane that we live on here on this earth.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I just knew that I was changed. I knew that our entire reason for being is to love each other, just love everyone, and let them know it. All we really need to do is believe in God and do whatever you can for others and you will have a happy life. Like Jesus said, 'LOVE ONE ANOTHER.' That is all we really have to do and you know all the rest of the answers in your heart. I feel like I was given much wisdom.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I had no review of past events, but after the experience I just knew that I was changed. I knew that our entire reason for being is to love each other, just love everyone, and let them know it. All we really need to do is believe in God and do whatever you can for others and you will have a happy life. Like Jesus said, 'LOVE ONE ANOTHER.' That is all we really have to do and you know all the rest of the answers in your heart. I feel like I was given much wisdom.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I am not sure that I understand the question, but my life has changed. I didn't feel like I had much intuition before this event, but now concerning my family I can almost predict the events that will happen next. I am just so aware of everyone's feelings and thoughts.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   I am a Christian but am not affiliated with any church.  I do go to church occasionally, but reading the Bible and to learning to be the best person I can be to my family and neighbors and everyone.  It is what the Lord wants us to do and it is my only desire.  The reason is not for rewards, but just because it is what I feel I need to do and it is what makes me happy.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I have a much stronger faith and my attitude is just to think of everyone else before me. I only feel happy when I am helping someone or spreading my eternal optimism and good cheer. Don't mean to sound like I am bragging, but it is just the truth.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   The fact that I left my body and the other people and the fact that I was alone but not frightened is just so weird. And there is no explanation for it in this world. And the noise was so odd too. I read about it in the Bible after it happened to me - about the wind sound at different times when the spirit came around. Well, I think the Holy Spirit was just showing me that I would never be really gone and that there was something else for us. Also the clouds - I had never heard before that Jesus left and will come back in clouds. Whatever happened changed me forever. I am a much kinder and more perceptive person; I have excellent intuition now. I was talking to my brother on the phone after it happened, and what I told him was that I knew things now. He has passed away since then and I made sure he was saved before he died. My sister and I were holding his hands. My twenty-four year old daughter died in 2000 and my brother in 2001 - both of them in December. Anyway, it is very hard to describe such an experience. Many things happened to me after I had this thing happen to me. But I know I will see them again. We will meet with Jesus in the clouds just like it says in the Bible.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I didn't feel like I had much intuition before this event, but now concerning my family I can almost predict the events that will happen next. I am just so aware of everyone's feelings and thoughts.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       There wasn't a worse part. I was just feeling fine even if I didn't know what was happening to me. The best part is that it happened to me at all.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Most people don't know what to say. I wouldn't either. I formerly thought someone was a total idiot when told anything of this nature and then actually expected others to believe it. But my sister thought it was just awesome. She said you are so lucky - you had a preview of where you will go, because of the fact that I felt so serene and seemed to be headed up. She believed me. I didn't tell anyone for several months. I didn't want to be laughed at.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I don't fear dying or losing your body. I felt very calm and serene. I was not one bit afraid.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      I would like to hear more about what other people think who seem to have more wisdom and intuition than they had before.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1judith_e_nde.html