{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1judith_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Judith D NDE 60","mylang":"de"}
          	        Judith D NDE 60  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Judith D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						233  Judith D NDE  60  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 I was in the Army when I received a series of injections prior to deployment. One of these (which doctors believe was the Anthrax vaccine) caused severe damage to my heart. The damage resulted in 3rd degree AV Block, leaving me with an average heart rate of 7 beats/minute. This necessitated the implantation of a permanent pacemaker. All went well during the first two surgeries; however, six months after the second, a lead in my pacemaker was dislodged and was causing misfiring in my ventricles. The doctors needed to fix it immediately, so I went in for surgery again.


The physicians failed to provide a back-up pacemaker for surgery for when they disconnected the original. This caused immediate cardiac arrest and clinical death of approximately 3 minutes (according to the surgeon). When this happened, I felt a tug on my chest and then heard many voices in the distance. I felt as if I were falling down and backwards, but only the top portion of my body. My legs stayed firmly on the table. I was grasping with my arms trying to reach the table when I realized my arms were tied to the table right by my side. This is when I noticed I was looking at my body on the table. But I was very close to my body, almost as if I were sitting on my own shoulder (minus my legs). I could see the entire scene of the operating room. It was fairly dark and extremely peaceful. I remember thinking that everything is fine and everyone would understand later. There wasn't an ounce of fear associated with this experience. It was wonderful!


Then I woke up as they were wheeling me down the hallway to my hospital room. I was extremely confused and kept telling all of the doctors and nurses that something happened and they had to tell me what it was, as if they had all of the answers. I just wanted someone to tell me what I had experienced. With time, however, I started to sort it out myself.  At first, I hadn't even realized that I had a near death experience. The more I thought about it, though, the more I realized that that was exactly what it was.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    March, 1995

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   IllnessSurgery-related    Clinical death Heart surgery.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  See above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      At first it was a little "muffled" (for lack of a better word!), then it was as clear as anything one can imagine.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I didn't understand what was happening at first.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Just at first the people in the room talking (but I couldn't understand them), then everything was silent.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     Maybe a dark tunnel going upward from where I had "fallen" off the table, inside which I was grabbing for the table.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No     

Did you see an unearthly light?      No   

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I just felt extreme peacefulness.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      See above.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     All I knew was that it was absolutely no problem at all to die and that, if it is that peaceful, I need to tell others not to be afraid of death.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No     

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I'm not sure if the reaching for the table had anything to do with returning to my body.

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   Presbyterian

What is your religion now?      Liberal   Presbyterian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Death is NOT scary or horrible, in fact, it is peaceful and wonderful. I seem to want to thank whoever or whatever it was that gave me the chance to see this.

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Because I am seeing it through my "eyes" and it is very hard to explain, although I can visualize it perfectly. No one can understand. I've tried drawing what happened to let others get a better idea, however, this doesn't always work.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     I have been able to foresee certain events, but I am likely to pass this off as coincidence!

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The worst was awakening and not knowing at all what had just happened. The best part is that I now know that when you die, you don't "just die".

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    The only thing I can say is that they want to know more...and I cannot give them any answers.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I think I've said it all.

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1judith_d_nde.html