{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1judi_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Judi T NDE 855","mylang":"de"}
          	        Judi T NDE 855  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Judi T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						342  Judi T NDE  855  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

At the time of the experience, I was working in a highly stressful job and had just returned from overseas after many months of hectic traveling and taxing negotiations with no relief.


The next night, on September 15th, I was putting my young children to sleep on my bed when I fell asleep myself. A few minutes later, my husband came in and began to take the little ones to their room. As he moved the first one, the flesh on the left side of my body began to 'scream'. It felt as if it was twisting upon itself. Almost immediately, I popped out of my body (this was not the first time that I have had an NDE - I've had one more that I remember. Also, I've always had spiritual experiences including a past life memory which an aunt reminded me of).


I popped out through the top of my head, through the wall of the house (the bed was set against the wall), stood up and spoke to a white cloud-like, human-shaped figure outlined in blue (I've now come to understand that that was one of my guardian angels). I asked him to help me because my body was dying (there was no uncertainty about his desire or ability to help). He replied, 'For so long He has been telling you to come out. Now, look at what is happening to you.'


Immediately, (i) I knew I knew him and he knew me and that it was good and in order that it was so; (ii) I knew he was referring to the job that God had instructed me to leave in January 1997. But I had been trying to get away with keeping the job; (iii) I got a bit irritated because I felt that at this crisis point it was unfair to scold me.


I said, 'Ok, ok, I'll come out. I'll leave. Just help me with my body.' He told me to go back in and try to call my husband. I did this but the left side of my mouth was 'failing' and I had no control over it and could not form the words. I jumped back out and said the mouth is not working. I could see through the wall of the house into our bedroom where my husband continued to carry the children over and he then told me to go back in and try the brain. I went in and tried to call my husband with my brain but it sounded like an old record being played on a wrong, slower speed. Again, I popped out thinking 'OH boy this is it - adios amigos.' I told him that the brain was no longer working and then he said 'Okay, go back in. I'll take over.' I reentered my body and strangely, I was able to do 'localized' thinking (not remote, like trying to call someone). I asked God not to let me die but that if I must, to let me last until morning, so that the children would not have the trauma of their mom dying during the night without telling them goodbye. I said, 'Father, not my will but yours be done. Into your hands I commend my spirit.' And then knew nothing until my husband came to bed. The whole thing lasted about twenty minutes.


When my husband came to bed, I apparently revived and told him that I was not feeling well (he confirmed the statement the following morning) and seemed to go unconscious. The next thing I knew was that I awoke. It was morning and I was checking to see if I was 'really still here'. I went outside to 'investigate the world', feeling a little tired as if I had just been jogging. Outside the hills, trees and flowers looked extra bright and I was glad to be back.


I contacted my sister (a medical doctor) and told her what had happened. She took me through a series of tests but finding the responses too slow on my left side immediately sent me for a CAT scan (computerized axial tomography scan). The results showed a spot consistent with calcification (hardening) of the brain. Subsequent tests - ECG (electrocardiogram), EKG (electrocardiogram) and MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) - gave me the all clear.


Email to Jody Long in response to the question 'Can you describe more fully about how you know you died?'


Hi Jody


There was in fact no one present who could clinically certify that I was dead. Indeed it was in that sense a 'private affair' - my husband did not even appreciate the extent of it - and I had 'slept' (when I awoke it felt more like being unconscious) for the entire night with my head on his shoulder. The incident took place at night at home and by the morning, I had seemed to have recovered except for the after effects I described in my account.


I must say though, that from that experience it is clear that humans are aware that they are dying at the moment that they are dying. The feelings of the moment cannot be confused with any other sensation such as fainting or going to sleep, for example. The dying sensations seem to be unique and definitely identifiable.


Several months after the experience, I was listening to a TV documentary on which they were describing the symptoms of an impending stroke. Every single symptom described including the sort of 'lift off and float' that one can experience while walking, was a symptom that I had been experiencing prior to the NDE.


I had in fact been in a job which while I had been enjoying it, I had also started reacting quite stressfully to some elements of the responsibilities.


Hope this helps,


Judith

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    September 15, 1998

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes     Waking from a nap   No illnessI was experiencing a wrenching pain on my left side that seemed to be a stroke.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was aware that my shape was as normal. However, I didn't focus on that appearance since; I was more concerned with trying to get help for the physical body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Coming out of sleep but full consciousness and alertness once the excruciating pain began.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   The wall was transparent to me while out of the body. It was like the negative of a photograph.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    The high pitched whine when the flesh was screaming and just before I popped out of my body.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No     On the two occasions that I remember leaving my body through death, I didn't 'do the tunnel'. It seems more as if the experiences have been 'time outs' or just a check with 'headquarters' (smile).

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     A figure - he was standing as if he was specially assigned to look after me. I only remembered that I knew 'him' (i.e. his essence) after he started scolding me. Maybe I recognized 'his attitude' (smile). He instructed me, helped me, protected me and carried me through the experience. I knew what he told me to do were the correct things to do under the circumstances but, I was panicking a bit too much to think things through for myself.

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   To the left of me, a bit forward and at the back right of the 'helper' (the angel).

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No     Not during the event but afterwards yes.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I've grown more confident in understanding and believing indications that I receive of the future in my life and in the lives of others.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   As described above.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Time is no longer important. I don't wear watches. I know that everyone has a purpose. I know that some people have been and are being born with a special assignment to uplift the world.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No     It was not the first time that I had had an NDE and also, I've always had interesting spiritual experiences. Now I just understand them better and trust the messages more.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Worst part the screaming flesh. Best part the whole encounter.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    They believe them because they are already familiar with such experiences.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      The questionnaire is very comprehensive.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1judi_t_nde.html