{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1judi_m_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Judi M Probable NDE 22469","mylang":"de"}
          	        Judi M Probable NDE 22469  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Judi M Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2671 Judi M Probable NDE 22469  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					In my mind's eye, I would see drops of blood. They would fall to the floor. The drops of blood would morph, or turn, into red plants, like poinsettias. The poinsettias would morph into reddish pebbles on the ground. I would then see my feet walking on those reddish pebbles. Then, the ground would look more like just a dirt path. I did not have a sense that I was who I am now (‘me.’) It felt like I was sort of watching a movie. I never saw myself, except for my feet.  

I would find myself walking to a village that looked like something out of a rural 16th century town (or at least what I would imagine that to be). It was heavily wooded. Not real sunny. There was a stone wall, with capstones, where a few women were talking. There was a dark haired man, dressed in a sort of burlap tunic. Everybody was dark and swarthy with very dark hair. The man would initially have his back to me. When I'd get closer, he would turn to me and smile and say something like, ‘We've been waiting for you. Welcome back.’ I'd then be directed to start grinding a type of grain with a mortar and pestle. I'd chat with others at the scene. I didn't feel particularly important - I was not a leader, simply part of a larger group. The working and chatting seemed to last a while. It felt so natural and peaceful. Then, when (in real life,) the treatments would restore my vital signs and the doctors would call my name, I would go into a lighter coma stage, and the man would say, ‘They are calling for you. You have to go back. We'll be here when you return.’ And, I'd awaken, at least to flutter my eyes or groan.  

I went through this sequence of visions two or three times, over what seemed like the next three days.  I found out later, that I had ‘crashed’ two or three times, and each time that had happened - after receiving a different treatment - I had come close to death. Subsequently, I had come back to life each time - aroused at least to the point where I could flutter my eyes and groan.

I have to emphasize - I felt that I was a female, but, at the same time, I did not feel like ‘me’ - like the person I am now. I didn't visually see myself as that person, either; I don't know what I looked like. It just felt like I was returning to some place meaningful, although the scene had no sense of familiarity to me (the person I am now.)  It wasn't a scene out of a movie that I've been to, and the man didn't look like anyone I know or have ever seen. It could have been a hallucination, I guess, but it was unlike a hallucination in that it was so consistent each time.  

I struggled with several relapses over the next nine months, but since I woke up from that particular coma, I was never able to will myself back to that place again.

That is my story.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  June 2001

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness    Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   I was in a hospital, in a week-long coma that was result of life-threatening blood disorder which caused strokes, seizures, and, ultimately, coma. I was given blood transfusions and other blood products and medicines while I was in the coma. I was X-rayed and MRI'd many times, too. My family was called to my bedside because I was expected to die (my organs were failing).

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Various levels of coma.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Other people.

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace and calm. I felt compelled to return to that place.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am more open to the idea of reincarnation.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1judi_m_probable_nde.html