{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1judi_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Judi C NDE 2170","mylang":"de"}
          	        Judi C NDE 2170  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Judi C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						596.5  Judi C NDE  2170  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            Experience Description :   

  I heard and saw the doctor giving me too much anesthesia and the surgeon saying, 'Damn it, you gave her too much, you killed her.' Immediately I was in a black velvet tunnel. It was pitch black, but soft like velvet. The noise was like a thousand trains going by at one time, I was in the middle of the noise, it was horrible, seemed to go on forever.

Then I was like pushed out into more black velvet, they on the right side of the tunnel I saw answers to equations in algebra that I had trouble with in high school, written in bright neon lights. And a few other things written, I don't know if it meant anything. I have always loved neon signs. As the writing went on, this loving, most kind, all-encompassing voice said, 'Judi, none of those things really mattered. You have all you need.' He just assured me that I was not stupid, was not 'slow' as my family called me. He said what I was doing was more important. He explained that because my sister and ex-husband were educated better than I was, did not mean I was not even more educated on things of the Lord. I was in such peace, the Lord laughed, not at me, but somehow with me. I just knew he was conveying to me that I had a purpose for HIM - it seemed I was in that place for hours and hours. I have never before or since felt such peace and freedom, not ever.

They, I saw a brilliant light. Brighter than looking directly into the sun. There was a soft blue color here and there. Then I felt as through two giant hands cradled me and was giving me a choice of staying or going back. I remember being heartbroken even thinking about leaving that place. Then he said, 'I need you to raise your two sons.' (I only had one son at the time.) I remember the sadness of wanting to be obedient to the Lord and come back. His love allowed me to make the choice of coming back. Next all I know was that I was in the recovery room, with nurses and doctors checking me.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1972  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related     I had another experience in the hospital having another operation.  The woman in the next bed and her husband laid hands on me, I felt the same thing.  I knew I was in God's arms and when I woke up I was healed.  The incision would not heal; I was in horr  Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening I have had four experiences with angels.  One save my life.  I had had a very serious operation - upper thoracic syndrome. A lung collapsed.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   The only time I have even felt that love is occasionally during worshiping HIM or praying. When I was sexually abused as a child, I would hide, cry, and pray in a tiny closet. I was about seven. My father would not allow me to cry or pray by then. In that closet I always experience HIS presence - He would talk to me and call me His precious daughter, and assured me that it would be okay.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At the end when I was in the Lord's arms.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   I felt that the whole even was hours and hours long.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was crisp and clear and brighter than the natural eye could look at without going blind.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I have never heard anything that loud before - I knew it meant something. I felt perhaps I had passed from sin, into love and forgiveness.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     As I said above.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I was aware of passing others but did not know who they were. Afterwards I thought, perhaps they were my grandparents whom I had never seen.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was the brightest light I have ever seen - some had rainbow colors. Very, very soft, very, very bright - beyond anything on earth.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     yes, out of the tunnel into God's arms in that light  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       At first during the loud voice some fear that passed quickly. From then on I felt more and more comfortable and then when I was in HIS arms, I was weightless, as though I was as pure and God himself, void of all sin.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control     I learned that God knew me, from then on I had no need to ever be afraid. Even though I have lost my entire family because they at the moment are turning their backs on the Lord - I have such confidence in the Lord - so deep so true, no one can steal it.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From personal future        For one thing, that I would have another son to raise. I knew with the incest in the family, my children would need me to protect them. It was very difficult, but I knew God was with me.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Catholic  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I could not stay in the Catholic church. I knew I needed a 'word' church and needed to be baptized in the Holy Spirit as manifested in speaking in tongues. I am graduating this May from my fifth year of Bible College and training. My entire life is about Jesus and bringing people to him.  

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Born again, spirit filled.  Profound experiences with Jesus that have changed my life forever.  I am in a healing ministry.  I have incredible faith for healing others.  I was healed of bone cancer.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I could not stay in the Catholic church. I knew I needed a 'word' church and needed to be baptized in the Holy Spirit as manifested in speaking in tongues. I am graduating this May from my fifth year of Bible College and training. My entire life is about Jesus and bringing people to him.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew that God was telling me he was going to use me in a special way. I no longer cared who in my family believed in God or not - my faith continues to grow.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am the only one in my entire family who is dealing with the trauma of incest, most have written me off as a religious nut. However, the Lord has anointed me to teach, and win souls in such a way that even my pastor is amazed. Actually, I am amazed myself, that's how I know it's supernatural. I have a poor memory, very poor. When I am ministering the Lord tells me chapter and verse the word that person needs, or exactly what to pray over them. I know this; it is natural to live a supernatural life.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was difficult to express because no one believed me. I tried to tell the surgeon that I knew that the anesthesiologist had given me too much. I heard him yell at him, 'You gave her too much, you killed her.' In recovery, I tried to talk about it again to the doctor. His face turned a greenish color; he said nothing except 'I will send someone to help you.' He sent a psychiatrist to try to convince me that it did not happen and that I made it up. My former husband was only too happy to agree with them. Ten years later in a prayer group, a friend said 'Here, I bought this for you. The Lord wants me to give this to you.' It was a book called 'Life after Life'. That was the first time in ten years I was free to talk about it. Every account in that book was part of what I had seen and heard. It was such a relief. I had been abused most of my life, and tended at this time not to trust myself and certainly not to push such strange things, it just made those people in my life think I was the one who was crazy and/or bringing the abuse on myself, as though I were insane. It was a very hard time in my life.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I became very prophetic. I actually got into palm reading. When I learned God said to avoid that I did. Then it became a true gift from God used for His purposes.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I had not been loved most of my life. In fact, I would even say I had been used for other's gain. My experience left me knowing I was very loved, and needed by God. In my Catholic days, my family would get angry and say, 'You need to become a nun.' They taunted me about my faith.  The Lord allowed me to understand the real meaning of life. Looking back now, I feel as through that experience prepared me for the losses to come. So many operations, death of middle son, I knew what I knew in my heart was real, and that no matter what happened and who turned their backs on me, Jesus would never leave me.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My family and friends - some friends believed me - it was ten years later that I became bold about it.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I already knew the Lord in a very special way. I knew it was He who was holding me. No matter what anybody said or did, that was so real; it did not matter to me. I stayed silent eventually, after a few weeks, but as I said, with that book 'Life after Life' it gave me wings.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Because I do have a mission in life for the Lord. I have had many more experiences, similar only, not related to surgery as that one was.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Other operations - I heard the beginning of the tunnel experience. Other healing experiences with the Lord - instant healing.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I know there are not a whole lot of us having had this experience. I know where I am headed and am always willing to change course if the Lord leads. I guess I would say, I have confidence in the Lord and such trust that it amazes me. Was healed from bone cancer, during that time I had visitations and awareness that even angels were singing to me.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?        I have to think about that.     			    			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1judi_c_nde.html