{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1juanita_ndelike.html","mytitle":"Juanita NDE-Like Experience 7377","mylang":"de"}
          	        Juanita NDE-Like Experience 7377  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Juanita NDE-Like Experience  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE-Like  			3780 Juanita NDE-Like Experience 7377  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It is a very short little experience, but I'm glad to share it. Actually I did not die, but I know it was the prelude to it. Although death did not touch me, in this manner I confirm that the experiences of my peers are real. I was a child, and I was sad, depressed. I suddenly felt like I was leaving and the strength to live left me. I lay next to my mother. I felt tired. 

Suddenly, I felt like I was shot out of my body.  I bolted fast, flying into the midst of an endless ocean of light; going very fast. I felt that I traveled a great distance, when, inside me I knew I was reaching a limit after which would be Jesus, God.  From the time I was a child I was very much a believer.  If I crossed, I would not come back. I felt a desire to follow, but an inner voice told me and made me understand that I was not ready to go there, that there were still things I must learn, and I, myself, then thought,  ‘I'm not ready, I must return.’ 

I immediately woke up in bed, startled, as if I had fallen into the body, lamenting that I was back, but it was my higher consciousness, which returned me. Now I know. Thanks for reading.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1980

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Other circumstances around the time of experience.  Other:  estaba triste y muy cansada como de vivir. Out of body experience

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Yes, it is as if when there, one knows the truth and accepts it without doubting.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While flying in the light.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It seemed I went very fast and that there was not enough time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I think I could see at a 360 degree angle, so to speak.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I didn’t hear anything.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Jesus. I knew I was headed for His presence but that I was not ready to see Him.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Everything was like a sea but of light, IMMENSE, and I flew into it.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It felt as if I passed the terrestrial and was in another dimension.

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Freedom, a powerful strength and fear upon knowing I was not prepared to leave the body.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No     I understood the experience: nothing more.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

The experience included:       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I knew I was not ready to leave and that I should return to earth.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     I have always believed.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I was very young and think it was all consistent; as it should be. God gave me what I could receive at that moment.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I value more, the earthly experience as a spiritual mode of learning.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   Jesús

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     God is waiting for us beyond the limit, which I could not cross; I don’t know how but I knew it was Him; His presence.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Prepare myself to live in that reign of total freedom.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     These are tests to purify the soul and prepare it to live in another spiritual dimension.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Yes, it does continue, since you experience the body but it's free of the material; you feel that it moves, and that someone is waiting for us in another dimension.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly feared death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     I think so, that the soul may decide to give up and not live, or go ahead in spite of what is present on this earth, that God gives us strength no matter what and that we should surrender to Him when it's time to leave. If the soul is connected with his being, I think it knows and can even choose how to leave.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     These are tests to purify the soul and prepare us to live in another spiritual dimension.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life.  Accept my earthly life without complaints and see that every choice is important to reach that state of spiritual freedom.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   no recuerdo los eventos antes ni luego de esa experiencia

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I do not know if it's due to the experience but I have some clairvoyance, so to speak.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I felt I was tired of living and God gave me this experience as a grace to understand that He was with me and strengthened me to continue onward on earth.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I felt I was tired of living and God gave me this experience as a grace to understand that He was with me and strengthened me to continue onward on earth.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I saw it as real immediately, as I felt clearly that I left the body and flew at full-speed.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I see it exactly as I lived it at the time, real and strong.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       That experience connects with other isolated ones I’ve had since childhood, but the one where I left the body: in awareness that I was leaving, was the one. Life does continue after death, once you’ve experience the body but it's free of the material; you feel that it moves, and that someone is waiting for us in another dimension. God is waiting for us beyond the limit, which I could not cross; I don’t know how, but I knew it was Him; His presence. These are tests to purify the soul and prepare it to live in another spiritual dimension. I think that the soul may decide to give up and not live, or go ahead in spite of what is present on this earth, that God gives us strength no matter what and that we should surrender to Him when it's time to leave. If the soul is connected with his being, I think it knows and can even choose how to leave.  I was very young and think it was all consistent with my beliefs at the time, as it should be. God gave me what I could receive at that moment. I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I don’t remember the experiences before or after that event.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Ask what one thinks after having the experience; what was the cause that led to it?      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1juanita_ndelike.html