{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1juanita_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Juanita M NDE 3209","mylang":"de"}
          	        Juanita M NDE 3209  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Juanita M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1211 Juanita M NDE 3209  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was shown my newborn baby boy - felt love for him - then I blacked out. I could hear the doctors and nurses talking in echoes and I felt very cold! The echoes stopped and a terrible very unpleasant shrill but rushing noise filled my ears. The noise frightened me, it was unbearable, and I wanted it to stop - I could not determine what was happening to me. I was 'in a dark place' and then became aware that I was in a tunnel lined with multi-fine concentric circles (gray colored) My body was moving rapidly down the tunnel, feet first (I was aware of my feet, I was barefoot) but they were not solid - more of a filmy nature. My eyes focused on the beautiful golden light at the end of the tunnel where I was headed!

Before I came to the light, (I never entered the light!) what I presumed to be an 'angel' appeared at my side. By this time the terrible noise in my ears had stopped! 'He' had no wings but had shoulder length light brown hair and a plain white gown. I had never seen this being before in my life. I recall now seeing him at my side from the waist up only. I do not recall if he 'glowed'. As I picture him in my mind now, he didn't. We communicated by telepathy only - not in words. I did not ask the angel who he was - I just surrendered to the 'experience' whatever would happen next. The 'angel' being showed me a rapid movie of my life me as a little kid playing, then school, adult. Nothing remarkable, no scolding for 'sins' I surely had done, or any lessons mentioned I needed to learn - only a very quick look. This quick look at my life didn't seem important, and later as I recalled the whole experience I wondered WHY I was even shown this movie! What was the point? Then the angel asked me, 'Would you like to go back or continue to the Light?' (I interpreted his words 'the Light' as being Heaven and God.) 'You can go there if you choose to!' After he said that I thought about my 'difficult' (alcoholic) husband, my two and half year old firstborn son, Tommy, and the wonderful little baby boy I had just given birth to. There was no hesitation - I told the angel 'I want to go back. My husband needs me and I feel so much love for my two little boys who need me as their mother'.

Immediately, I was aware of being back in the world, waking up full of energy and a most wonderful inexpressible feeling of joy. I remember trying to raise myself up off the bed - full of energy as I told the nurse (who was smiling and pushing me back down) 'I feel so good!' The nurse replied, 'You feel so good because we are putting blood back into you. Look at your arm.' Then I saw that I was receiving a transfusion. 'We almost lost you,' she said. The doctor verified that they had endeavored to resuscitate me and were successful as I was 'gone' for a few minutes. The wonderful feeling soon left but not the experience of being 'somewhere near the next world'. This was not a dream; it was a 'real' experience!

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    'November 12, 1963'

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Surgery-relatedChildbirth    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) .  I had just given birth to my second child and the doctor laid him on my belly for me to see - a wonderful loving experience! Then I blacked out - doctor had cut the episiotomy, and told me later that he had 'unknowingly cut a vein' - they had trouble finding it and I bled internally - and that they 'almost lost me from hemorrhaging'. My husband heard the code blue alarm, then nurses and techs running to the room with equipment to get my heart going again and blood transfusions.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  
I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   From the time I met the 'angel being'.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      From the time I met the 'angel being'.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I 'knew' that I was no longer in my body, and that I was in a space 'somewhere' that led to 'heaven' and God. Time was irrelevant - time never entered my mind.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    I cannot describe normally the appearance of the light I was approaching. It was golden, so very bright, but it didn't hurt my eyes as looking up at the sun would! There was some transparency to myself and the angel.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    My ears were super-sensitive to the rushing shrill noise I was subjected to at the beginning of my experience. My thoughts were - 'I just can't stand this noise - whatever it is!' I was so relieved when it stopped.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     Concentric circles in fine lines (dark gray lines in lighter gray tunnel). As I moved feet first along the tunnel the bright light at the end became closer.

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     What I perceived as a 'male' angel, appeared at my side in the tunnel. I had never before seen this being. Communication: He showed me rapid movie of my life so far. Then he 'said' (telepathy) 'Would you like to go back? You can go back if you choose to.' That was the only communication I remember.

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Very, very bright and golden yet it didn't hurt my 'eyes' looking at it. In my thoughts I perceived the light to be the next world (heaven) where God reigned.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Fear (of the noise in my ears!). Surprise (appearance of the angel being). Love (thinking of my two little children (one a toddler, one a newborn baby!). Sense of duty to difficult husband (I don't know why I felt this way!).

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     This part of my experience was unremarkable. I learned nothing from the 'rapid review' (only pictures) - I experienced no emotions as the review happened so fast. I watched this brief 'movie' unemotionally.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   'Raised in Lutheran Church, investigating Catholic religion & attending Mass.'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes     I now believe we don't 'sleep' when we die - but go on immediately to the next dimensions. I am also more aware now of 'angels' God sends to help us! I feel there are so many man made 'beliefs' in the religions. I choose to keep a simple spiritual life - and stay away from the various denominations with all their conflicting rules, regulations and beliefs and often 'hatred' of each other!

What is your religion now?      Liberal   'No longer belong to any organized religion. I pray often, read Bible and other inspirational books, meditate, and endeavor to be ''spiritual'' (having compassion towards my neighbor) and treating others as I would like to be treated. I concentrate my thoughts on God at least every day.'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I now believe we don't 'sleep' when we die - but go on immediately to the next dimensions. I am also more aware now of 'angels' God sends to help us! I feel there are so many man made 'beliefs' in the religions. I choose to keep a simple spiritual life - and stay away from the various denominations with all their conflicting rules, regulations and beliefs and often 'hatred' of each other!

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Uncertain  I have always strived to be a loving person. After this experience I perhaps thought more about my spirituality (not religions) and endeavored to perfect myself with others so far as treating others (even strangers) the way I would like to be treated, as the Bible says, 'God is Love' and I 'knew' that golden light at the end of the drab tunnel was full of God and Love!

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I saw and communicated (telepathically) with two spirits years later. One was my deceased mother who returned to tell me she loved me, and the other was an unknown female spirit who told me my mother-in-law would die within four months and I should tell her son (my husband) and her husband to be kind to her! My mother-in-law did pass away four months later!

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       A question was answered to my satisfaction. Is there 'life' immediately after death or do we go to 'sleep' awaiting the Resurrection? I was also amazed that I had a 'choice' to go on to the Heavenly realms or go back to my earthly life.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I told my husband the same day. He took my 'story' seriously and did not laugh at me. I never told my doctor or nurses. I felt they would think I was crazy! I told my mother a week later. She did not think I was 'crazy'. It was almost ten years later that I told others, and I chose carefully to whom I told my experience, if I thought they could 'understand' the experience and already had a spiritual outlook on life.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     This was definitely a real experience, and I felt even closer to God as I saw Him. I was eager to share this unusual experience with others! It was one of the highlights of my life!

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     I can still 'see' in my mind what I experienced! I KNOW there is a hereafter, and that I will one day enter the tunnel again but next time I shall enter the Light! As I grow older (now seventy years old) I think even more about this experience, and that I must spread as much love to others as possible as perhaps my days on Earth may or may not be many more.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I've told all I remember!

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      I feel you covered all aspects of the experience very well!

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1juanita_m_nde.html