{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1juana_db_nde.html","mytitle":"Juana dB NDE 7999","mylang":"de"}
          	        Juana dB NDE 7999  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Juana dB NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4150 Juana dB NDE 7999  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was to give birth to my first child.  After a whole day being monitored and medicated to dilate with no results, a caesarean intervention was decided. I was put under general anesthesia. 

Suddenly, I was in a place FULL OF LIGHT, and I realized that all I had experienced on earth was to get there.  Finally I was where I belonged, I was home.  It was a feeling of complete happiness and well being.  I was realizing that all made sense.

The most striking feature of the place was the light. It cannot be described if you have not had the experience.  Everything was light, there were no shadows. Everything was happiness and love.  Everything made sense and was understandable.  Finally I had made it; all my live had been lived to get to that place.  I felt no anxiety.  There was no Time.  There was only knowing, being, loving and felicity.  I realized that we were out of Time.  That as such, Time had ended and it was a relief.  It was a totally different dimension.

In that place there were other people.  Like everything else, they were light and all loved me.  Specially and closest to me, there was one person who looked at me and smiled.  In a sense I knew he/she was MY person and was there for me.  I think he/she was wearing a tunic.

I wonder on how should I describe the light?  I cannot say that it was white, for it would make it sound dark.  It is like asking what is the color of brilliance?

And then, I fell into the surgery room.  They were lightly slapping me in the face.  I was so sorry and sad.  I couldn´t understand why they had brought me back to such a dark place, although all the lights of the room were on me.  I think that what made the darkness were the shadows, besides being the light itself so very dark in my opinion.  Where I came from there were no shadows because everything was made of light.  I came back from REALITY, from the place where I belonged.  I came back from my home to this dark, sad, and full-of-pain place.

Since I was back the doctors didn´t explain much of what had happened.  They just told me that my windpipe had contracted around the breathing tube. They told me that I had been 'some time' without oxygen and that it had taken them quite a while to bring me back.  That night and the day after are some of the most difficult times in my life.  My throat was absolutely raw and practically every breath I took was extremely painful.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  09/04/1984

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    Childbirth While under general anesthesia.      Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   Since I was anesthetized, I cannot be sure of how life threatening was the event.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It seemed to me that the life we live in earth was confusing and obscure.  That since we belonged to the other place, our home was there.  Only there, you could be truly conscious and alert.  There it all made sense; there you understood everything.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During all the experience, it was like experiencing the real reality.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     As far as vision goes, I didn´t notice any difference.  The light was incredible but I saw it with my normal eyes.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    As far as hearing goes, I didn´t notice any difference.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I didn´t relate to me the beings I saw; I don´t think they were living or deceased persons; I rather think they were angels.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was in another place, and it was an unearthly world.  This world reflects sources of light that also produce shadows.  The other world was made of light and there were no shadows.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happiness, fulfillment, joy, love, sense of belonging, purpose fulfilled...

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     It is a feeling that everything is understandable and everything makes sense.  I didn´t look into anything concrete, or ask myself any questions.  There was no need. I could 'live' that everything was right and like it has to be.  About myself, I knew that I was home and that my whole life had been a trip through Time to get there.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   Although I strongly believe, I didn`t have any religious practice at the time

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   I pray daily but I don´t go to church almost ever.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I always have had Faith, and nothing of what I experienced contradicted that Faith.  What was unthinkable was the degree of happiness and fulfillment.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Where before: I believed, I think now, I know.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   There were other beings, all made of light.  Especially one of them was there for me; he/she loved me and smiled to me.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain     I am not sure but if I felt that I had gotten home, maybe there was my own origin.  Maybe I was coming back, returning to the place where I came from

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I KNEW everything is connected and in a sense is ONE.  Given the quality of the experience, I can only witness it.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I knew that beyond the beings I saw, which I would describe as angels, there was God.  Since there you KNOW things, and you are OUT of Time, you don´t gather neither information nor encounter things.  Everything is simultaneous.  God definitely exists.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew something that we don´t know in earthly life: that everything makes sense.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     The meaning of earthly life is to get there (or to go back there).  Time belongs to that earthly life.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I strongly felt, I knew in fact, that life in earth is just a trip to get there. I felt joy for finally, I had made it. I knew that Time is the life on earth, one thing after another.  We are bound to escape Time when we get there.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     I felt relief, so that must indicate that I felt life had been hard.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love and joy and happiness, and Light, and Being were the same thing.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     Now I wish I could do more for other people.  I have to confess that pain, and sufferings in others really put me down.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It is very comforting to know that God is waiting for us, and that his love is pure joy and happiness, and where He is, there is our home.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Several years.  People just listen and I don´t know what they really think about it.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It is hard to explain.  As a matter of fact the experience was REAL, and the earthly world is not real, in as much as it changes all the time; Time alters life in a way that you cannot say that what happens in one second to be real, for the next second has changed it.  Reality needs permanence, needs completeness, needs wholeness.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I think since the experience was out of Time, it is always present.  For me, the clue of everything is Time.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   It is not directly related to the experience, but after my mother died, she came to comfort me and to tell me that everything was fine; the love and relief I felt in that moment was very much like the one I felt in the experience.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1juana_db_nde.html