{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1juan_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Juan M NDE 4530","mylang":"de"}
          	        Juan M NDE 4530  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Juan M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2193 Juan M NDE 4530  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was at home with my wife, and for several days I had been anxious about problems to do with work, being a very nervous type of person. Because of the magnitude of the problem on that day, I fell on the floor in the bedroom, hitting my head first against the frame of a parked bicycle, and then against the floor. I remember seeing myself in a place where everything was light. I did not look behind me but I noticed that the light shone on everything around me. I could not differentiate between the floor and the ceiling, that is, everything was light, a very bright light, strange but not uncomfortable. I did not know how I had come to be in this place, but it has always seemed to me that I came there at incredible speed, as if I had been through a tunnel or passageway at immense velocity, and ended up there, but this is just a feeling, as I could not see any passageway or tunnel.

While I was in this place of light, in the background were visible some sort of dark stains, which kept getting closer, and I began to recognize the silhouettes of three persons, two men and a woman. They did not have complete bodies. The woman was in front.  While they came closer, I began to hear shouts and cries. When the silhouettes were very close, I think that we spoke. Although this is not very clear, and it is just then that I began to recognize the shouting and moaning, which came from my wife who was pleading for me to get up, to wake up, and it is after this that I think I came back the same way I went.

Then I came to, standing up in my wife's arms, telling her that everything was okay, that it had all been just a scare.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  28 de septiembre 2008

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    Me encontraba en mi domicilio y debido al estrés y presión que tenía en esos días por problemas laborales sufrí un desvanecimiento con perdida de conocimiento golpeándome en la cabeza  Other Me encontraba en esos dias bajo una gran presión y estres  It is possible there was a threat to my life, as I hit my head on falling, first against a bicycle and then against the floor.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When the silhouettes were very close and I recognized the shouting and moaning of my wife.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I saw this very bright light which was everywhere, without a definite point of origin, although I did not look behind me I noticed that everything was light, that is, the light enveloped everything.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I don't remember it, but I have the feeling that I did pass through a tunnel or passageway at great speed.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw three silhouettes in black approaching me, two men and a woman, with the woman in front, the two men slightly behind. They were of medium height, and I did not recognize their outlines although that of the woman I find impossible to get out of my head. I do not remember speaking with them, but I feel that although she spoke little, the woman did say something when I realized I had to go back to my wife.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     una especie de lugar, todo luz, no se podían diferenciar paredes, suelo ni techo, pero toda esa luz era ya en si un lugar

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       At first I felt puzzled, calm, just observing the light and the three persons, it was only when I became aware of the movement and cries of my wife that I knew that I had to 'return' and get up off the floor. When I heard her I became a bit anxious about her anguish.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   'Creía en la existencia de algún ser o fuerza superior (Dios), pero rechazaba todas las religiones que había en ese momento'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     Already I was not religious, but had hopes of something beyond. Now I still do not believe in religions but I am convinced almost a hundred percent that something awaits us beyond this life.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   'Creo en ese ser o fuerza superior aún mas, estoy convencido de la existencia de algún otro plano dimensional o lugar al que se vaya tras la muerte. Y sigo rechazando las doctrinas religiosas actuales'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     Already I was not religious, but had hopes of something beyond. Now I still do not believe in religions but I am convinced almost a hundred percent that something awaits us beyond this life.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I try to base my life a bit more on love, and to enjoy the moment.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Explaining to my wife the vision of several people approaching me, while I did not know who they could be as I only saw them in silhouette, and could not see their features, as they were completely black silhouettes.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The critical point was knowing that I was not where I should be, and hearing my wife weeping and crying out.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The following day, with my wife. At first she did not believe much in my story.  A few days ago, in Seville (Spain), the book by Dr Enrique Vila, 'I Saw the Light', was launched. I was at the presentation and bought the book, my wife is reading it as am I and she is already beginning to believe in me a bit, though she still has doubts about these things. And a few days ago I told my mother, who does believe me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I still believe that what I saw was true, but a doubt remains to prevent me believing a hundred percent.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     I am a bit more convinced of what I lived through, but still cannot be a hundred percent sure.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Only that after the experience I went to the hospital emergency room to discover the cause of my fainting fit and investigate any after-effects in my brain. They admitted me and in the following days they did every kind of test, scanned my heart, analyses, Holter, etc. Everything came out okay, so without a cause for the fainting, they put it down to possible stress.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1juan_m_nde.html