{"name":"Herb Mertz  | Psi Encyclopedia","type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/psi-encyclopedia.spr.ac.uk\/articles\/herb-mertz\u00a0","mytitle":"Herb Mertz\u00a0 | Psi Encyclopedia","mylang":"de"}
                     Herb Mertz  | Psi Encyclopedia                                  Skip to main content                                                        	                  

Follow&nbsp;                                     Toggle navigation                                                                                       Home About Contents A-Z Categories New To Psi Research? Nigel Buckmaster Contributors                                                                                                                           Herb Mertz                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Herb Mertz is a consciousness researcher who provided consulting for the Princeton Engineering Anomalies Research (PEAR) laboratory. He co-founded Psyleron, which until 2020 designed and marketed random-event generator devices for mind-matter research. He is the author of The Selection Effect (2020), which describes a long-term micro-psychokinesis self-study using a random event generator.&nbsp;   Contents   	Career 	&nbsp;Psyleron 	Long-Term Self Study&nbsp; 	Presentations 	Website 	Literature 	Endnotes     Career

Herb Mertz obtained a degree in mechanical engineering from Princeton University in 1976. Three years later, Professor Robert J Jahn, dean of the engineering school, founded the PEAR laboratory. Mertz was involved with aspects of its work until its closure in 2007.&nbsp;&nbsp;

In 2003 Mertz, together with PEAR lab intern John Valentino, started Psyleron, Inc. with the objective of developing consciousness-related technologies and making them available to researchers.&nbsp;&nbsp;

Since 2005, Mertz has explored his own psychokinetic abilities using random number generators. This work has been described in academic conferences, a 2020 book The Selection Effect, and a 2022 published research paper in the Journal of Consciousness Studies.1  &nbsp;Psyleron

Psyleron developed and sold quantum-based devices to enable research and personal exploration of mind-matter effects. These included   	a portable random number generator with USB interface and associated software 	a colour-changing ‘Mind Lamp’ linked to a RNG that can potentially show the influence of human attention and intention 	a cellphone-based service, through which a RNG sends out customizable text messages to subscribers, with the idea that unconscious desires will drive synchronicities between the output and simultaneous events

Mertz has stated that the products were designed to be provocative and experiential for people who already have some degree of belief and want to put them to some kind of practical use.2 In 2020, Psyleron stopped selling its products to end users in order to focus on new research and development.&nbsp;&nbsp;  Long-Term Self Study&nbsp;

In The Selection Effect,3 Mertz reports on a longitudinal study in which he acted as experimenter and subject, attempting to influence the output of a random number generator. Over an eleven-year period, Mertz conducted four formal studies that comprise 5.7 million trials with an effect size of 0.1% (one bit in 1,000 influenced by psychokinesis, p = 6 x 10-7). He also journalled over 2,000 pages on aspects of the experience. In his book he describes how certain states-of-mind are associated with repeatable patterns of random number generator output and discusses how others can conduct their own personal mind-matter interaction projects.

Mertz describes the discovery that certain states-of-mind are associated with repeatable patterns of REG output. He first worked with the machine for some six months without achieving any effect. Then, he writes,  

…unexpectly and without warning, I knew with certainty that the line on the REG chart was about to shoot upwards. … And sure enough, immediately thereafter, I began hitting a multitude of greens, and the line on the chart shot upwards dramatically. …&nbsp;The feeling was so intense and strikingly clear that I could not deny it.4

At first the experience unnerved him and he found that he was mentally blocking the effect from repeating. Over time, however, he found patterns starting to emerge.  

Surges of feeling would well up inside me that felt like waves pushing me forward. At those times, the REG output invariably responded in a positive direction. That period would be followed by a period of cresting and running out of steam, in the expectation that the REG output would slide back down. And the results complied, heading back downward just as I predicted.5

Mertz named this the ‘rubber band effect’, in which a period of high scoring snapped back as soon as he noticed it – and which he found is generally experienced by other people experimenting with REGs.  Presentations

The Human Mind as Models and Moments. 36th&nbsp;Annual meeting of the Society for Scientific Exploration. June 2017, Yale University, Connecticut.

A First-Person Account of Mind-Matter Interaction Using Quantum Event Generators. IGPP Colloquium. 20th July 2021.  Website

Mind, Matter and Meaning

Michael Duggan  Literature

Mertz, H. (2020). The Selection Effect: How Consciousness Shapes Reality. ‎ Penn Wolcott Press.

&nbsp;Mertz, H. (2022). Random Event Generators and a First-Person Account of Mind-Matter Interaction. Journal of Consciousness Studies 29, 5-6, 102-29.&nbsp;   Endnotes 1. Mertz (2022). 2. personal communication 4 January 2022. 3. Mertz (2020). 4. Mertz (2020). 5. Mertz (2020).           			  			     			This page was last updated on: February 11, 2023   			 			                                               	       Search form        Search                   Article Information           	Author: Michael Duggan Word count: 700 Created: 11th February 2023 Last updated: 11th February 2023 May be cited as:Duggan, M. (2023). &lsquo;Herb Mertz &rsquo;. Psi Encyclopedia. London: The Society for Psychical Research. &lt;https://psi-encyclopedia.spr.ac.uk/articles/herb-mertz%C2%A0&gt;. Retrieved 10 January 2024. Short URL:www.tinyurl.com/2ztwyje5                   	                                                                              

                      	                                                                                                                      	                                                                                            ESP                                        Psychokinesis                                        Psi Healing                                        Possession &amp; Past Lives                                                                          Mediums &amp; Psychics                                        Hauntings &amp; Apparitions                                        Poltergeists                                        Out-of-Body &amp; Near Death Experiences                                                                          Scientists &amp; Researchers                                        General Psi Topics                                        Other Phenomena                                        Organizations &amp; Publications                                                                               	 	About 	Contact 	Copyright 	Login                    

Visit the Society for Psychical Research                

[1] https://psi-encyclopedia.spr.ac.uk/articles/herb-mertz 