{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1juan_hcu_nde.html","mytitle":"Juan HCU NDE 2491","mylang":"de"}
          	        Juan HCU NDE 2491  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Juan HCU NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						781  Juan HCU NDE  2491  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

As a preamble to this story, I want you to know that up until that moment (1981), I was used to swimming in swimming pools and quiet waters.  I had never swam at the beach where the waves may drag you out into the sea. It was the summer of 1981 when along with my brothers and cousins I went to the 'Agua Dulce' beach. When I saw the vastness of the sea, I did not want to enter the water so I stayed on the beach taking care of the clothes the others left behind. However, the heat and curiosity attracted me so I put on shorts and went into the water. I only stepped into the shore's shallow waters but curiosity, again, made me go further, so I went further in and came back to the shore. When I took confidence after the second time, I went back and turned to find myself in front of a wave, which dragged and sank me in. When I reacted, I let myself fall to touch the bottom and taking impulse I went up to the surface. I found that the wave dragged me to approximately one hundred meters from the shore. I became nervous and desperate, which made me sink again. Once more I pushed myself from the bottom to go up to the surface and started to cry for help. Fortunately, I was spotted.

However, I couldn't stay above the surface and sank and felt that water was coming into my body through my eyes, my ears; little by little I started to loose oxygen until I reached a mental state where I refused to drown and die. Rapidly, I started to think, 'What have I done? Why me? I have not lived life yet. I have not sinned. It is not fair.' I clung to life but lost consciousness. I do not remember anything. My relatives who were there told me that the lifeguards were giving me mouth-to-mouth resuscitation but since I did not react, they used a resuscitator [Translator note: don't know the English term for 'inflador resucitador': it sounds like resuscitator by blowing air]. Fifteen minutes went by and I did not react so they ordered my transportation to the morgue.

This is what is extraordinary: when the lifeguards were saying that I should be taken to the morgue I could hear them but could not tell them I was alive. I couldn't move or make a signal. I suddenly saw a beautiful, bright light, which enlightened the place where I was. I looked like a boy eight or nine years old, I was standing in a white robe. Then, two groups of persons appeared dressed as roman wrestlers; one group was red and the other was blue. They were fighting over me. Both groups wanted to take me and said to each other, 'He belongs to us.' 'No, he belongs here.' It looked like they were going to fight with their swords and during that moment of discussion I took the opportunity to run and escape and this is where I got back my consciousness and started coughing. I immediately got medical attention and am alive to tell you about my Near Death Experience. Lifeguards said it was a miracle 'We thought you were dead and we were taking you to the morgue.'

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 February 28, 1981   

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident       ahogamiento  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I decided to run and escape due to the fear to be taken to an unknown destiny.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When the two roman groups were fighting over me.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   I appeared like an eight or nine year old boy.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It looked like a mine cave; it even had two exits, I took the one to the left to escape.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw the two groups of roman soldiers wearing - one of them - red uniforms and blue the other.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw a Light before the two roman soldier groups appeared.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Desperation and sorrow to be dying so young.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Neither  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   católico  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     They have not changed.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate   católico  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     They have not changed.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Long hours of thinking and concentration; I lost my fear to die and from that moment on, I have become stronger in dangerous or stress moments; I perform better, I do not get desperate.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I resisted death at all times, I clung to life and it was vital to escape while the roman soldiers groups were discussing.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    With my family; they said that I was so lucky, others said it was a miracle because no one could live fifteen minutes without oxygen.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I understood that when a person clings to something he gets it and that is real. I clung to life and that is why I am alive; I fought for living, did not accept death, and told myself: this is a second opportunity to live. I value life.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It helped me to give meaning to my life.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Life and death are within us. He who wants to live must cling to it.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I think they are well stated. I do not think there's anything to add.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1juan_hcu_nde.html