{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1juan_carlos_nde.html","mytitle":"Juan Carlos NDE 3562","mylang":"de"}
          	        Juan Carlos NDE 3562  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Juan Carlos NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1620 Juan Carlos NDE 3562  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was training at a school for the Colombian Army.  I made a bet with my companions about them throwing me into the river, tied with a cord, with my field gear and uniform on.

 As I was waiting for the boat that was supposed to rescue me I began bobbing up and down in the middle of the river until I was unable to bob up anymore. A part of army training consisted of not breathing in water to increase chance of survival, so I didn't take in water and I started sinking. I could only think 'It's over,' and I began entering into a tunnel of light, with a much greater and brighter light towards the back.  As I went into the tunnel, I didn't want to go back.

This could have been a phenomenon associated with the lack of oxygen, but the most astonishing thing is that at a certain point I saw myself at the top of the water and I could swim toward the riverbank, leaving more than 200 companions who were with me astonished.  I thought someone had pushed me towards the surface, but nobody knew who it was. Nobody had an explanation.  The only sure thing is that I felt frustrated because I didn't want them to take me from there.  It was a marvelous and unforgettable experience.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  abril 12 de 1977

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I couldn't hold myself up on the surface of the water.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     When I came out of the water I saw the river under me as if I were floating.  When I touched the water, I began swimming unconsciously.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I went into a tunnel that got brighter until I got to a warm, very intense light that embraced me and held me.  It was pure energy to the maximum degree.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A very very brilliant light that radiated energy with a magnificent brightness.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     El interior de la luz al final del tunel brindaba calidez , amor, paz

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, tranquility and joy. Unusual physical strength when I got out of the water.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   From that time on I knew that my life had a specific destiny, that I was here on this earth for a reason, with a mission that I still haven't been able to decipher what it is.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I'm not very attached to this life or to material things.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The sensation of well-being and peace.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I believe I have a special ability to help people who are dying.  I haven't experimented with this very much because I am afraid people will think I'm crazy or something like that.  Not long ago I visited an aunt who was terminal.  I spoke with her in her room.  I described the tunnel and the light to her, and I think I helped her to 'pass on' because she died a few hours later.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        When I came out of the water I began swimming unconsciously towards the shore.  The people there greeted me as though I were a hero or something.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The first time was with my army buddies.  When I asked them about it, they looked away and didn't say anything.  Even today, when I ask them they don't say anything, as if I didn't ask the question.  I don't like to tell about the experience much because people offer no opinion, they only smile.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It happened in front of over 200 of my army buddies and other curious bystanders.  I came up out of the water to their applause and shouts of happiness.  It definitely happened.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I see it as something inexplicable.  After such a long time I still have no logical explanation.  It was definitely a miracle from God or a paranormal experience.  Not everything has an explanation or any witness for it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1juan_carlos_nde.html