{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jr_m_nde.html","mytitle":"JR M NDE 149  \t\t  \t\t  \t\t  \t\t  \t\tThe description of being connected to all life is astounding in this account.  There is also evidence of a lot of spiritual transformation as he has re-integrated his NDEs with his new purpose on earth.<\/span>\">","mylang":"de"}
          	        JR M NDE 149  		  		  		  		  		The description of being connected to all life is astounding in this account.  There is also evidence of a lot of spiritual transformation as he has re-integrated his NDEs with his new purpose on earth.</span>">  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					JR M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						586  JR M NDE  149  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 No, I'm not a cat, but people who come across my circumstances seem to think that I have nine lives.  I've been shot, ran over by a one-ton truck, fractured my skull, operated on various times, and am still walking and talking.  All of these things have happened to me and have been well documented.


One of my near-death experiences was manifest in an ambulance en route to Lexington Ky.  I had fallen from a three-story building and my neck and head were swollen. I felt a lot of pain and then, I felt like I had just woke up in unfamiliar surroundings, until I realized where I was.  The realization I received was combined with sudden awareness of every living soul around me, beginning at my  immediate center and flowing outward/inward.  I was part of a larger picture.  Then I sensed the three souls in the ambulance with me.  I sensed their presence, love, hearts, emotions, feelings, and physical/mental states.  I heard their thoughts and felt their caring hands.  I looked through each of their eyes, and saw not only their immediate physical future, but their past as well.


I also noted animals and other souls around me such as;  an angry bus driver in Seattle, a lady killing an annoying spider in Ripley, WV,  a bug hitting a train in Oklahoma.  All of these feelings were felt in a split second, and seemed like an eternity.  I felt love, hate, famine, awe, destruction, revolution, caring, hope and a barrage of other feelings.  What was so funny is that I realized the purpose of it all.  I understood the meaning of famine, the purpose of confinement, the glory of opportunity.


Why doesn't God stop the violence?  Because God didn't start it in the first place. You see when God created us in his own image; he literally gave us the power to choose our own destiny, but not the destiny of others.  I think that when God created man, he did it out of a longing to share works bestowed upon the earth i.e... Gods' creation of a flower, or the Sequoia forest, or a humming bird, small miracles that unfold into master plans that revolve around never ending cycles of self-regeneration.


I think that the world we live in now was created solely by us. Yes, we chose all of the hurt, all of the violence, all of the pain and suffering.  We also chose; rewards for our sacrifices, the love and caring, smile of our loved ones, the smell of the roses, the touch of another, the freedom to be free, the wisdom to look ahead, and the fail/safe system so we wouldn't become confused by it all.  I believe that God is our mentor, teacher, and guide.  He loves us, and wants to watch us grow.


He knows we can't walk without skinning our knees, he knows we can't love without the knowledge of hate.  He sees the future when there is no future up ahead.  The end result is a like soul mate to share what he has created.  How wonderful it will be to co-create a butterfly.  To supervise a sunset!!  To feel his warm, loving hands on our back for a job well done!!  Most religions are so naive.  I also believe that in ten lifetimes, one soul could never accumulate enough knowledge to even say ga-ga or goo-goo to the supreme being.  Look at the stars, the endless universe; we see in three dimensions, imagine how many dimensions there really are, just in the physical world.


As we learn, as we grow, we will be rewarded ten times ten for every forward step, and penalized ten times for every backward step.  I would think that most people would say, 'well how will we ever reach our final destination if this is the case?'  With God, there is no time/space, only love.  His patience stretches the far reaches of the pluraverse.  Sure, he could say, 'presto you now know what I know.'  Would that accomplish our ultimate goal of companionship?  No!!  Look at our existence, what variables that are tossed in front of us, mere chance?  I think not!!!!


He helps us by teaching, understanding, and not by interfering unless asked first.  When we finally realize something has fallen into our pathway, by no means of our own, we will be on the path of enlightenment and the road to discovery.  Let's open our eyes and think numbers for example.  Look at how numbers influence our everyday life.  We could not exist without them.  How about music?  Look at all of the messages that are sent by just one song.  Feelings, where would you and I be without feelings? Physical reality, what would life be like if we could not touch anything?  Perception, now here is a word within itself.  If we teach ourselves using all of these common, everyday planes of existence, we will succeed in accelerated advancement and knowledge accumulation.  In short, our search for knowledge will grow, by the power of a wisdom.


Perception, when you get out of bed tomorrow morning, before your feet hit the floor, imagine what it would be like if, there were no floor.  Just another person on a life raft, in the middle of the ocean, with no food.  How about the smell of coffee?  All of the simple, everyday things we all take for granted, could be misery to another soul.


Let's look at the other side of the coin;  What about the pain we feel every morning just getting out of bed, the feet pain associated with broken bones/arthritis and shifting our perception of how another could be worse.  How much we have to be thankful for, and how our lives could possibly become, is the stuff miracles are made of!!  If you believe within your heart that God can heal your sore aching back in the morning, he can, and will!!!  All that it takes is faith.  If we believe that the pain will never subside, it will not.


Attitude is just a word.  Faith is a way of life.  If every morning the dog brings you your paper, do you have faith he will do it tomorrow?  If we never watch a sunset, does that mean the sun won't set tomorrow?   When we are reunited at his side, armed with the knowledge of untold ages, and perceptions, we can truly appreciate the value of a tree.


I hope that this helps.


 JR's Sessions:


Survival of the Soul


The soul, essence, manifestation, entity, being.  Different words with the same meaning, different ways of looking at them.  Someone once described it as a never ending wind, blowing to and fro with no where to land and no where to go.  Perception; a simple task of ordering breakfast can become a complicated interaction i.e..  four people walk into a Denny's.  All speak French, most speak English, but only one places the order.  From this point forward all English based communication is filtered through this single soul, even when this soul is not directly involved in the subject matter. Taking it to another level, four Americans walk into a French restaurant.  All four will speak, all four will order their own food.  In most cultures aside from American, unity, delegation and simplification of the communication process is a practiced attribute, when dealing with others.  Here is an exercise called, "perceptual thinking"  that helps us focus on new ideas, concentrate on old habits, justify new actions and by developing self-improving techniques of self awareness:


The next time you change your appearance, the next time you put on a watch, chain or some other ornamental attire, imagine how you would do it, and practice the same if you were left handed (right handed if you're a south paw), one armed, wheelchair bound, quadriplegic, during a bout of depression, anxiety, after an all-nighter of love making, drinking, talking, sleeping, immediately following a crisis, increase in monetary status, or just plain hung over.  All of these states seem to motivate us into an alternative awareness, hindering the "present" decision making process, and require us to maintain complex strategies to enable simple everyday behavior.  By stimulating each of these circumstances compiled with more personal talents and strategies compiled by you, we become more attuned and can subconsciously accept and understand a lot of the environmentally social conflicts that burden society.


Those little things that used to bother us become figments of a passing memories no longer requiring immediate attention.  When situations arise, our minds create complex data searches dedicated to locating the closest possible scenario that has happened in our past and that matches to our current situation- sometimes creating a feeling of emotional trauma or confusion.  By effectively simulating all of the possible perceptions and different angles and dissecting common behavior patterns, we can create alternative solutions paving neural networks of synapse highways or just get smarter.


When you have a headache, the kids are screaming, the phone is ringing, the rains pouring, and a wasp gets in the house, we won't over-react because we will have already prepared for it by perceptual thinking.  By enjoying what we already have, imagining life without them, or life altered by extenuating circumstances, such as:  a sunroof when it's raining, a wheelchair for a man without arms, a collar for a chicken, or anything else we can imagine, we effectively manipulate our subconscious mind with intertwined pathways from alternative sources linked to common objectives.  So without consciously thinking about our current situation our mind will focus on possible solutions to anticipated behavior patterns giving us; "intuitive" mindsets capable of eliminating the need for crisis management!


Isn't it weird when we approach a situation requiring immediate adult supervision in an area in which we have no prior experience but are forced into acting? Usually we find the correct solution without outside assistance.


This process of perceptual thinking is an everyday occurrence, we sometimes fail to recognize it.  Practice makes perfect, imagined dreams become reality, if we write it down it will come to pass, why not use our ninety percent brain to accomplish our ten percent lifestyle, and increase and build highways of information.  If we get a thought on our mind or a dream you can't stop thinking about, maybe it is our minds way of telling us that a perpetual search is being established to located a goal.  By perceptual thinking through the situation and imagining every perceptual way of looking at the situation that is troubling or healing us, our minds will accelerate into the computerized database sequential data gatherers that we were created into becoming.  Help yourself, help yourself.  I think that every soul  has a higher self that keeps us in kilter with our current dimension.  When either of these worlds are threatened or intermingled without the adequate support necessary to accommodate accurate translation, without perceptually thinking, catastrophic circumstances could abound in every direction.  or we could just become mute to ourselves. Behavioral managed, focused and productive souls will forge the pathway for a newer, enlightened surroundings.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Male

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death Ran over by truck, Shot with shotgun, fell from three story building
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Vivid.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Several, even some not experienced on the human level.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Uncertain     

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jr_m_nde.html