{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1joyce_y_nde.html","mytitle":"Joyce Y NDE 5082","mylang":"de"}
          	        Joyce Y NDE 5082  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Joyce Y NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2634 Joyce Y NDE 5082  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Before the birth of my son, I had pre-eclampsia (now called pregnancy induced hypertension - PIH) and was on bed rest for a couple weeks (the due date was March 3). February 16, 1979, I was admitted to the hospital because of the PIH. I went into labor early morning of the 18th. I know I was given an injection of MgSO4 (magnesium sulfate) during labor. (I don't know if I was given more than one magnesium sulfate injection.) My son was born about 9:30 that night. Several hours later, I remember fumbling around for my call bell but couldn't find it. I knew something was very wrong. I weakly called out, 'Help me, someone help me.' I had a roommate (this was before the days of husbands being present all the time and rooms were semi-private.) My roommate asked me if I needed help and I said yes. 

I remember saying, 'Oh, Mom.' What I remember next was being somewhere near the ceiling in the corner of the room at the end by head of the bed. I saw nurses beside the bed, taking my blood pressure. I have no recollection of what else they were doing. I distinctly remember looking down at them working on me. 

The next thing I remember is waking up with a blood pressure cuff around my arm and complaining it was too tight. The nurse explained she had left it on so she didn't have to put it on and off each time they took my BP, since they were taking it very frequently. I was later told they wanted to put me in the Intensive Care Unit but the unit was full. I later asked the doctor what happened and he didn't have a ready answer, except that the MgSO4 might have caused my blood pressure to bottom out. I did not tell him about my OBE.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  2/19/79

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Childbirth    Other post-delivery of child  My blood pressure dropped significantly.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I don't know.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I don't know.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I don't recall any specific emotions.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Mennonite

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Nondenominational Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        None that I can think of.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was probably about twenty years later that I told some friends about my experience when we were discussing OBEs and NDEs. They were somewhat skeptical about such experiences at the beginning of the conversation, but seemed to believe me when I told them what I had experienced.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Only a general knowledge of some claiming to have had OBEs or NDEs, but I questioned their validity. My own experience changed my mind but I don't think it had any bearing on the actual experience itself.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew what happened was real but didn't feel like I wanted to tell anyone about it. I don't know if it was because I thought no one would believe me, but I just didn't feel compelled to share about it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know what I saw and experienced. It was not a dream. Now that OBEs and NDEs are more talked about, I feel more validated and am not afraid to share about the experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Perhaps there could be more distinction between OBE and NDE. During my OBE, I did not feel like I was dying. There was nothing to make me afraid or joyful. I just know I was observing from outside my body. It seems that there can be OBE without NDE.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1joyce_y_nde.html