{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1joyce_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Joyce D NDE 3246","mylang":"de"}
          	        Joyce D NDE 3246  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Joyce D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1179  Joyce D NDE  3246  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was in a relationship with an abusive man who was very jealous and possessive. When he would drink, he would be very abusive and hit and push me about. Twice he beat me badly enough that I had to go to the emergency room. I made plans to leave. I went to friends who helped me. I stayed with them in hiding. They would drive me to work and wait until I got inside then pick me up when I was off.

One day we were running late. My friend did not wait until I got into the store. The boyfriend was hiding, as I went to the door, he grabbed me and pulled me into his car. He drove to his house and made me go in with him. He cussed me and abused me; he demanded I return to him. I tried to reason with him and pleaded with him to let me go. He said either I stay with him or he would kill me. I ran to the bathroom and tried to lock the door but he pushed his way in. He was beyond anger; he had hate in his eyes.

He grabbed me and started to hit me. When I tried to get away, he grabbed me by the throat and he began to squeeze.  Suddenly, I was not in my body but looking down on him and me. I could see and hear him yelling at me. Everything slowed down, I was completely at peace, I knew he could kill me, I knew it was my body down there he was strangling. I felt that I was completely in touch with everything and that I was going to have to made a big decision about whether to live or die. I was not afraid to die, especially since everything was so peaceful and clear. But something was telling me that I had overcome too many obstacles in my life not to live. My time wasn't ready. I watched him with his hands on my neck and I could see fear in his eyes. I think I was losing consciousness and he let go and I floated to the floor.

He started to kick me, calling me a faker, telling me to get up, he was afraid I was dead. I saw myself lying there and then I decided I had to return. It was like, I had more to do with my life and I could not let this person take that away from me. Next thing I knew I could feel the floor under me and see his face looking down at me. Because he was scared I was able to convince him to let me go. I told him I would go back and tell my friends I was going back to him so they would not cause him any trouble, but, once he released me - I hid and never returned.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1966

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Criminal attack    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening' .  I was being strangled - I thought I might die.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As I started to lose consciousness.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      As I started to lose consciousness.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   It seemed to move in slow motion.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    Clear - very clear.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Peace, awe, concern.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   Roman Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Uncertain     I have become more spiritual rather than religious but I don't know if it is a direct result of that experience or rather many life experiences.

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Uncertain     I have become more spiritual rather than religious but I don't know if it is a direct result of that experience or rather many life experiences.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Uncertain  I'm not sure but I think it planted a seed that helped me choose better partners for myself and never to be in another abusive relationship.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Many years - because I was ashamed of what happened - a few people that I shared with were very supportive and kind and some were angry that it happened to me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    Uncertain   I think I had heard something about it but did not really know much about it.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     Because of the way I could view myself during the experience - truly outside myself - I know it happened. I didn't imagine it - how could I - I was being totally brutalized at the time.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     I guess because in my life I have never come to doubt the experience of that day.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Uncertain   I tried LSD a few times - it gave me an altered sense of reality but nothing I've experienced in my life has ever truly come close to that day and that experience.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1joyce_d_nde.html