{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1joy_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Joy R NDE 22463","mylang":"de"}
          	        Joy R NDE 22463  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Joy R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2664 Joy R NDE 22463  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					When I was fourteen, I went to visit friends for the weekend. We went to the pool. I couldn't swim and my friend Fay was joking around and she pushed me. I fell back into the deep part of the pool and I couldn't get back up. They thought I was being silly, but I was actually drowning. I was told that it wasn't until they saw me laying still on my back that they realized I was in trouble.  

At some point, I was floating in the air, not my body, but my spirit. I saw a crowd gathering on the landing by the pool and I was able to see that it was me on the floor. I saw my friends Fay and Jess crying while everyone was screaming call the ambulance, 'Is she ok?' It was then that some force drew me to the most beautiful and peaceful place that I have ever experienced. As I was floating towards the gate of this beautiful place, I saw my dead maternal grandmother whom I've never met.  But she came to me and called me by name and said it’s not my time, she then showed me my mother in our kitchen in Brooklyn, and she said 'Do you know what this would do to her?,' she would never forgive herself for allowing you to convince her to let you go spend the weekend with friends. I then saw the light. I was being drawn into the light; it was the most calming, peaceful experience I've ever felt. 

Just as I was walking towards the light, I was stopped by this oversize person. His face, I couldn't see. It was a bright light.  His feet were larger than life.  They looked like they were made of metal. He started to talk to me, and told me that it’s not my time and I need to go back. I told him that I didn't want to.  I wanted to stay there with him and my grandmother.  He said, 'I have work for you to do.' 

Then I saw myself having a baby.  Then he said, 'You must go back now.' I turned around looked at my grandmother.  She whispered, 'Your mother needs you.' 

Suddenly I felt myself being suctioned back into my body, and the next thing I knew, I was coughing up a lot of water, and the ambulance came and took me to the Emergency Room. I remember telling everyone what happened.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  years ago

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I was drowning.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  My body was unconscious, and my spirit was viewing my unconscious body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was unconscious.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My physical body was screaming.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     An oversized person whom I'm convince was God, I couldn't see his face, and it was a bright light.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My dead grandmother, and an oversize person whom I'm convince was God. I couldn't see his face, it was a bright light.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   As I was going into the gate.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace. Calm.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw my mother and father at our home in Brooklyn.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   They showed me my mother and how it would devastate her.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I now know for sure that there is a heaven and that God is real, and that our steps are ordered by God.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best part was the peace I felt. The worst part was leaving my loved ones behind.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it with everybody.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1joy_r_nde.html