{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1joy_l_nde.html","mytitle":"Joy L NDE 2007","mylang":"de"}
          	        Joy L NDE 2007  		  		  		  		  		    		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Joy L NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						477  Joy L NDE  2007  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            Experience Description :   

  At this time in my life, I had recently lost my grandmother. She had raised me like her own. Losing her was a great, great loss. My own mother and father had rejected me. Also, I felt like a failure as a human being. (No friends) So lonely. I felt like a poisonous influence to my loved ones. (Better off dead.) It finally got to be too much, so I decided it was time...I totally cleaned out the medicine cabinet, containing, since me and my son were both epileptic, enough anti-epileptic medications to do the deed. I swallowed all the pills i could find. As the day went on, I felt like I was fading. I lost consciousness.

During my 'dream', I saw myself falling into a pit. It was like being crushed by rocks. I saw myself decay and rot, all the while, a low and guttural voice saying 'You're in' with the last part being obscured by other voices. At times, I looked up to see the bottom side of rocks and dirt with worms and beetles squirming in my vision and at times my flesh. My feeling at this time was of deepest despair, and palpable evil. I blacked out to awaken to the most beautiful singing I have ever heard. I heard this singing, and then I heard my family trying to resuscitate me. They finally got me on my feet to go the Emergency Room. I saw and heard angels and the bells of a church. That is what awakened me. My family could not see or hear them. This is the closest I came to death. I am still not sure of it all, but the feelings I had associated with this remain with me today. Some may say hallucinations, but it was real to me.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 march 1999  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.    Suicide attempt       Life threatening event, but not clinical death   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the 'darkness:'  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     It had no sense of time or place.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Brilliant colors, hyper sense hearing, etc.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Seemed to be hyper alert    

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Darkness, and shrouded shapes in darkness, others such as myself in the same realm. Bright and golden beings bathed in iridescence.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     the dark beings/souls the glowing spirits  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Despair, sorrow, remorse, hope, rescue.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   ]  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal   open  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I seem to be able to sort of 'know' that a dire event (to me) is about to occur.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have since become a solitary individual  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It all frightened me, but not to the point of not trying suicide again. I did later. It was almost successful, and I am still very uncertain in my beliefs. I have since lost my son, whom I loved with all my being. On the night that he died, my grandmother came to me.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I have no words to explain the reality of that experience.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I can't explain it in words that convey the reality of that experience.    

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       			    			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1joy_l_nde.html