{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1joy_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Joy H NDE 2749","mylang":"de"}
          	        Joy H NDE 2749  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Joy H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						922  Joy H NDE  2749  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I was in surgery to repair a broken hip. I became aware that a doctor was talking to me telling me to breathe. There was great light, and suddenly I was above the bed looking down at what was going on. The light seemed to be flashing around the room very quickly. There were beings there also, somehow associated with the light. These beings had a fluffy see-through-ness to them. This seemed to be going along for a while and I felt as if I was moving with the flashing light, or toward the light. I became aware that I was not going to make it. I was not afraid. I was thinking of my grandbabies, my daughter. I realized or was told I didn't have to go. When I realized that this conversation began within myself and I was telling myself I could stay. 'If I work at this, I can stay.' I was willing myself to make it. Telling myself to stay calm and concentrate on making it. This seemed to go on for a while, and the next thing I knew, I was awake in my room with all of my family around me. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	6/19/2006  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  Surgery-related     breathing problems  'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   Breathing problems during surgery.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was alert to the fact that I was being told I had a choice. This alertness was so plain, so clear. Clearer that everyday thinking.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       My highest level of alertness was when I realized I was going to have to work to make it.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     Time was flashing by, but at the same time things seemed in slow motion.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Vision was unclear at first, and became clearer, I do not remember colors, but the brightness was extreme, and flashing, the room was not clear, the doctor was, and when I looked down on the activities, just the doctor and I were clear. The beings were transparent, filmy.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing seemed at first to be different, far away, but became clearer, and then loud as I convinced myself to come back.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I felt as if I was getting closer to the light and farther away from the doctor.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The beings were around the perimeter. Above. I did not know them. I think my realization that I could make it came from them.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Disbelief at first, then concern, and then determination. I felt calm, no fear.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw my grandbabies and my daughter. I learned that I could make it back.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Episcopalian  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Episcopalian  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That I could fight to make it.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It is significant to me that I knew I was not going to make it, and that it seemed fine, confusing at first, but fine. It is significant to me that I was given a choice and the knowledge that I could fight my way back.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Right away, after recovery, I told all of my family that I almost didn't make it. I told them there were aliens in the room. I was confused, and heavily medicated. They humored me.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had heard of NDEs. I had no conscious thought prior to the surgery. The surgery was a full day after the accident and I was heavily medicated.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     As an NDE. A week after surgery, my friend informed me of the call from the operating room and the problems. No one had told me that even though I had spoken often of what had happened. That was my reality.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It has been one month and my reality has not changed.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No           				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1joy_h_nde.html