{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1joshua_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Joshua C NDE 1010","mylang":"de"}
          	        Joshua C NDE 1010  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Joshua C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						453  Joshua C NDE  1010  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was standing in military formation at parade rest for a chain of command of ships; this means one ship was taking command of the area from the other ship.  While standing at parade rest, I all of a sudden felt extreme heat at the bottom of my feet gradually increasing upward along my legs.  Somehow, I knew that I was going to pass out and tried to summon the person next to me by touching him with my elbow but I fainted before I could. Some say that I fell straight down and bounced three times on the canvas of the gym where the ceremony was held.


I did not feel the impact.  I all of a sudden was looking down at what at first appeared to be dots on the ground but eventually came into focus as people looking down on the floor at someone; I immediately realized that the person on the floor was myself.  I then immediately looked to my left and saw, as though looking out of a window, the medical crew aboard ship, which was two hundred yards away, scrambling to get a stretcher off the 'bulkhead' (wall) in response to the call.


Just as I saw the corpsmen running down the ship brow, suddenly I saw an extremely bright light flowing over my right shoulder and obstructing my view from everything within my sight. Turning toward this light to investigate its origin, I suddenly saw three figures slowly approaching me.  The figures began to come clearer and I then recognized them to be of my past uncle; my mother's sister's husband - 'Uncle Buddy' (1972); my past aunt - my mother's baby sister (1976); and another uncle - uncle Dee Dee, my father's brother, who I often visited during a great portion of my training after 'Boot camp' at Orlando, Florida in 1979.


Uncle Dee Dee seemed to have stepped forward and approached me as though to shake my hand. While I gestured to shake his hand, I heard his voice as to say words to the effect of, 'Well done.'  As I reached to grab his hand and to say, 'Thank you,' I was awakened by smelling salt from a corpsman's hand and found myself on the floor looking at all those around me.


I was taken aboard ship and given medical attention with bed rest for three days.  When I phoned my parents the next day to convey my experience, my mother informed me that me uncle Dee Dee had passed the same day of my experience. And from that movement on my life has not been the same.


Through that experience there is not a doubt in my mind that the physical existence is only temporary.  There is more to tell, but it will probably be many pages written as a result.  Thanks for allowing me to share.  Continue to stay blessed.


 I am,


Joshua

Background Information:

Date NDE Occurred:    July 1980

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Fainted.  Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening Fainted while standing in military formation.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I saw myself lying on the floor.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Of the awakened state of mind.  I was clearly conscious of my existence but not of my surrounding.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     See main narrative.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   See main narrative.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Somewhere in time.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Knowing why I am here on Earth.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   Raised as Methodist.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Through that experience there is not a doubt in my mind that this physical existence is only temporary.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Have multiple visions of various events, even this day.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Best: seeing family and the ability to bi-locate.  Worst: Having fainted.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Will submit under separate cover.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1joshua_c_nde.html