{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1joseph_v_nde.html","mytitle":"Joseph V NDE 2879","mylang":"de"}
          	        Joseph V NDE 2879  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Joseph V NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1002  Joseph V NDE  2879  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  While attending a Summer camp in 1952 at eight years old I ventured into line at the diving board end of the swimming pool. When it was my turn to jump off the board I was filled with a dreadful sense of fear. As I backed away, someone pushed me off. I remember going to the surface twice then I was surrounded by a beautiful white light. I was in a tunnel but remember little more of the experience. Thinking back on the event the vision of things was not the same as seeing. It's like seeing without knowing what you're seeing.Up to that time, I had been an angry boy. My father suffered a paralyzing stroke right in front of me at age four. After this NDE experience, I became calmer and less angry. The other thing that happened was losing my competitive drive. For all of my life I refuse to compete within anyone over anything. Nowadays I force myself to compete and feel uncomfortable doing it. The big problem for me is waiting so long to say anything as a public record. The memory had a huge impact on me but I was never sure how or why. I always assumed it was because I was so young and did not have enough knowledge to fully appreciate the event.I did go back just once. In church, while thinking about the experience the thought jumped into my mind that the brain stores everything and that if I tried maybe I could remember. Sure enough for a split second, the bright light came flooding back then disappeared and has never reappeared. I am a nut for knowledge and read a very wide range of ANSWER material. I'm into Physics, Cosmology, History, and all Technologies. Would like to live where the sky is crystal clear so the stars can be seen at night without a telescope.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 July 1952  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Drowning in swimming pool.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Not sure how but it was good feeling.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All the time during. But it wasn't normal. It was more like you feel when you really understand something special.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     Vision was extreme for the things that can be seen.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It's not the same as eye vision. It's more like seeing many things at once.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Bright warm soft and did not hurt to look at.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place     Had an image of a small village but not sure.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Confused but unafraid.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     I know things before they happen but I usually dismiss it as a logical outcome of previous events.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I think I'm supposed to do something before I go back.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain Less angry.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Logical outcomes of certain behavior is predicable but is it ESP?  People who have been fighting each other for hundreds of years will eventually return to fighting each other.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Actually this is the first time I have tried to share this much detail. I usually just affirm that I had a NDE and saw a bright light.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   I was eight years old. Could barely read or write.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The attitude going into and after is important. How this thing changed me? I did not have much of a life before so I have no way to compare it. But this thing changed me nonetheless.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Suggest you have NDE sit down a talk to each other. Or have one NDEr question another NDEr. The NDE experience is so personal and somewhat confusing that is hard to explain things that you KNOW but have never seen before. Think of it this way. There are several BILLION people in the world searching for GOD. If the NDErs have seen him then they are very special people. But if having a NDE is all you need to see God then why is it so special?     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1joseph_v_nde.html