{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1joseph_u_nde.html","mytitle":"Joseph U NDE 22053","mylang":"de"}
          	        Joseph U NDE 22053  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Joseph U NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1924 Joseph U NDE 22053  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					As I fell and my friend fell on me I blacked out.  At this time, I looked down on myself lying there with my friends around me. I could hear what they were saying and what was going on. I heard the TV and the commercials and I was watching. I felt myself kind of floating above them near the ceiling and I could see down the hallway. I was able to see my friends who were in the hallway. I could see what they were doing.

I don't believe I was dead, but I could hear my friends discussing their worries that I was unconscious. They were slapping my face. One friend went to get water to splash on me. We were young and they didn't know what to do to revive me. As soon as I saw them about to splash water on me, I felt myself being pulled back into my body. I awoke and was a little confused what had happened to me. As I started to feel better, I started to ask them questions about what they were saying and to my surprise, it was accurate. Then I went down the hallway, found my friends, and asked them if what I saw them doing, was the truth. They both confirmed that they were playing with a ball and throwing it back and forth. I was shocked and so was everyone else.

They all just shrugged it off as that I was playing a joke on them. Or I had been unconscious but had heard them. But I knew that I had felt like I was floating and had felt like I saw them from the ceiling. I never really tried to go any further with anyone that night but I always knew that I had and out of body experience. Then one night I heard a show on coast to coast and decided to write my story here. Ever since this experience, I have had strong feelings that there is life after death and that our bodies are just vessels.

I have changed in the way of attitude. Before this event, I was always getting into fights and arguing with anyone and everyone. After this experience, I have been a lot happier and know that there is something more than this plane of reality. I even have grown a lot more spiritual and religion has fascinated me. I think that before this experience I was afraid of death and of little things. This experience didn't frighten me it made me get a sense of how wonderful life is and how much we have to learn on this plane of existence.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  12/20/1996

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Accident  wrestling in living room   wrestling with friend an knocked unconscious

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I didn't see my form, but I could see my body lying on the ground.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I felt conscious, but my body was unconscious.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It felt like half an hour, but it was only like two minutes.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I could hear and I could see, but touch and smell I don't know.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       During the experience I felt peace and I felt no pain. I also understood that my body is like a car my consciousness drives.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Not at that moment but now I have déjà vu a lot and my dreams sometimes come true.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   catholic by birth and have read about diff religions

What is your religion now?       Moderate   catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am more religious and I wanted to study more religions.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have déjà vu more often and dreams coming true, which I think is what the déjà vu part is about.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best part was feeling something other than pain when you leave your body. I didn't have any worst part.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Most have just acted as if I am crazy. Or thought that I’m just making up a story for entertainment purposes.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I think I covered most of what I felt and remembered.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1joseph_u_nde.html