{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1joseph_m_nde_2434.html","mytitle":"Joseph M NDE 2434","mylang":"de"}
          	        Joseph M NDE 2434  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Joseph M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						733  Joseph M NDE  2434  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

During my experience, the highlight of the whole thing was when I saw my father's parents.  My mother's parents were nowhere to be seen.  Then, I saw my great grandfather in a tattered uniform of the civil war.

I looked straight ahead to see what other relatives I could see besides the bright white light.

I saw what looked to be a battlefield of a battle fixing to take place between British troops and Indians with Mohawk haircuts, and I saw a relative on horseback.  The horse was big and his coat was a beautiful brown-mixed-with-black color, and he was well kept.

Then, there was a black-shaded silhouette of a king's head above all of this, and I was stretching my neck, so to speak, to see more of this figure and a very blinding white light hit me square in the eyes through the jewelry in the top of this king's crown as I was trying to see more of him.  He had large whiskers on his chin.  I suddenly turned away from this blinding light shining through his crown because it hurt my eyes too much to continue looking at him.  I turned my head away only to lose sight of him, never to see him again.

Then the scene shifted to a garage-like looking doorway where I, and more spirits by the hundreds, went streaming into this same blinding white light area.  This bright light had really burned my eyes from looking directly in to it.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 September 1980  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident       Also a head injury with broken bone fragments back of skull its self between the ears at base of skull bone  Other 'I had died three times in the saint Mary's hospital of Yakima Washington.  I had ninety percent bodily injuries and was reported that I some how had gone a quarter of a mile falling down and getting up with this pelvic bone its self-broken and the L-4 an  Just inside the tunnel of light was a pulling sensation towards a fiery area.  This scared the willies out of me at the time.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I believe the appearance was where I had this suddenly burning pain in the upper middle of my chest area over the breast bone where the doctor is said to have been using an electric shock to bring the heart back online.  It felt like my whole breast bone was being pulled right out of me at this point.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Things appeared to me as being solid here where I was, other than the gentleman that I spoke to about whether anyone would be with me or not.  He said that someone would be with me shortly.  He was dressed in an Arab or Hebrew outfit with a cap on his like a round bowl with square sides to it like they wear in Jerusalem.  Then he disappeared on me like he had just walked right through this solid marble-like fence that was taller than either of us.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A very long tunnel where I finely ended up inside of, and floating along as if being pulled by some unknown force.  There were spots in this tunnel where I could see sky and the puffy white clouds floating along beneath me.  Weather-wise, I'd say the area was calm.  But I saw no one walking at this time in the green grassy meadows below me when I did see meadows.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Only one being who was dressed like an Arab who could have been an angel in disguise or could have been Jesus.  But he was not clean shaven, he just had short whiskers about his face and mouth area.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light that I had seen was in the tunnel all around me, both sides in front of me and behind me.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Lightness and fear mostly.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     Yes, I had finally got to see firsthand that there is another life to look forward to in life as I know it to be.  I was not sure of this before.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   'I was a member of the church of Christ then.  And now a member of the church of Jesus Christ of the latter day saints   But hardly attend any church now. no real reason not too of course'  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I now believe there is more to the bible than we are being told that there is.  

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Mormon church  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I now believe there is more to the bible than we are being told that there is.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   The whole experience was kind of spooky for me as a non-believer until I got into it, just inside the tunnel of light.  I had this pulling sensation to my left until I looked to see what it was that was drawing me near it.  I saw nothing or no one, but believed that the badness in me or in my past was part of me trying to pull me down this path to this fire-ball-looking area the same color of a fire burning trash.  I started praying to god again to please don't let me die here.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Curiosity, more than anything, on the king.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have tried to share this event with others out in real life, but it's been laughed off by friends as a joke to them.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I've heard of near death being spoke of, yes.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was confused as to why I'm experiencing these things, and the doctor is telling me I had died.  I was wondering what was in the doctor's pipe.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No           				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1joseph_m_nde_2434.html