{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1joseph_l_nde.html","mytitle":"Joseph L NDE 4435","mylang":"de"}
          	        Joseph L NDE 4435  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Joseph L NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2217 Joseph L NDE 4435  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was driving a Ford station wagon to buy flowers for my wife who had just given birth to my son two days earlier when a drunk driver ran a stop sign and hit my car broadside on the driver's side front third of the car. I remember hitting the brake hard. I then felt warm blood running down my face. I thought I was dying and said a prayer asking God for forgiveness. It was at this time that I noticed that I was floating above my car a few feet. I remember vividly saying to myself that this must be what dying is all about. I was feeling EUPHORIC; it was an absolutely incredible feeling. I could see myself in the driver's seat, bloody hair, floating higher yet, with people gathering around the accident. I was no longer a few feet above the car. I was more like fifty or sixty feet above the car and it was at this point that I noticed that I had no arms or legs and I could not see any other part of my body, but my thinking was very clear and my feeling still EUPHORIC. It was the greatest feeling I have ever experienced in my entire life. I kept floating higher and higher in this dark void, (there was no light above me) until looking down my car looked like it was only a half an inch long. At this point I awoke in an ambulance the siren blaring, my head bandaged, hurting at my head and my ribs. My doctor had been notified and was awaiting me at the hospital in his tuxedo. He had been at a party. I recounted this event to him and he told me that I had been in shock and that was the reason that happened. I had just started a dental practice and did not mentioned this to anyone for fear that if this got around the public would not respond favorably to a new dentist and a new practice To this day only a few people know this story. You have to remember this happened in the 1960's and was unheard of and I did not want to be known as an unstable dentist so I kept quiet. This is my story and I remember it as if it happened yesterday. The reason that I am recounting this now is that I saw Dr. Long on Fox News this evening and felt this was the time and venue.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'Oct 22, 1967'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident. Direct head injury  'cracked skull,  broken ribs'  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' Auto Accident  My son had been born two days before the accident.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   While floating above the car.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While floating above the car.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I wore glasses at the time for nearsightedness but now I could see crystal-clear.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A sense of wellbeing, EUPHORIC.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     From that point on I am not afraid of dying.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Roman Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am more religious in my beliefs than I was then.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Roman Catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am more religious in my beliefs than I was then.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I am no longer afraid of dying.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Thirty or so years ago to my present wife. She was amazed. Nobody else until a few years ago my golfing buddies were also amazed.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I believed it happened then, forty-three years ago and I believe it now.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The clarity of the experience is still vividly with me forty-three years later.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It's like it happened yesterday.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1joseph_l_nde.html