{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1joseph_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Joseph J NDE 729","mylang":"de"}
          	        Joseph J NDE 729  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Joseph J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						255  Joseph J NDE  729  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

From: Joseph  (Original Message) Sent: 06/06/2002 1:13 p.m.


I got crushed to death!


I was unloading coils of steel off a semi-truck. The load was short blocked, so I cut the steel banding.  Then the coil rolled forward, bounced and rolled back pushing me onto the forks of the forklift.


The next thing I saw was me, doing the post-mortem kick.  Then the angel holding my hand told me, 'You're not done here!'  He took me to a place that I can only describe as a Light and Sound, and the feeling of Love like in my mother's arms. Knowing that I was safe, I wanted to stay there!


The angel told me, 'You're not done here, you have to go back!'  The next thing that I saw was the paramedics putting the pads to me.  Pain, fear, I can't breathe, went into shock. After eight hours of the doctors trying save my life, I was moved to the intensive care unit.  When I woke up my mother was holding my hand - I passed out!  Sometime later - about eighteen hours - I woke-up again in pain.  My mom was still holding my hand. I started to cry!


More later.


Light and Love to All!


Joseph

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    7-7-1994

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Clinical death Crushed by an 8,642 pound coil of steel.  Dead on arrival.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Like an astral body! Not like the other souls that were moving around me!

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      OBE, Very High!

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   It seemed I was gone days! Then I saw the paramedics put the pads to me!

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    The most wonderful music I'd ever heard!

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     A friend that had died years before! In the lights and sound! Yes, Lee R.! He told me that it was good to see me!

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   One Very bright, and hundreds of thousands of smaller lights!

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Light and Sound!

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     A purpose, duty, and task! I still don't know what it is! Yet!!

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     The one holding my hand said, 'You are not finished here! You have to go back!'

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   'You are not finished here! You have to go back!'

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I became a lord - 'Reverend of The Church of Light Works.'

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Yes, The Love, Light, Sound!

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I saw an angel stop traffic, and then a big truck (eighteen wheeler) drove right through the intersection!

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Love and Light!  The pain!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    June of 1998 IANDS (International Association for Near-Death Studies) Seattle, Washington.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1joseph_j_nde.html