{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1joseph_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Joseph G NDE 21856","mylang":"de"}
          	        Joseph G NDE 21856  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Joseph G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1685 Joseph G NDE 21856  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					At the time of the experience, I was a police officer in Florida. I went to the emergency room of the hospital because of a bad reaction to a tetanus shot.  While in the emergency room, I was given two shots of penicillin.  After the second shot, I fell to the floor.  All of a sudden, I found myself floating at the ceiling watching the turmoil going on in the room.  My body was on the gurney jumping and shaking.  The room was full people working on me; pounding on me.  The nurse who gave me the shots was sitting on the floor in the corner, hysterical. I saw them use the electric paddles, trying to start my heart, with no luck. I thought I heard someone say that I was dead. Suddenly, this doctor rushed into the room, shoving everyone out of the way. He was carrying this long syringe with a long needle and plunged it into my chest.  That was the last thing I remember. 

A week or so later I suddenly woke up. I was in a hospital room.  As I woke up, a doctor entered the room. I recognized him as the one with the needle. The first words I said to him were, ‘I guess it's a good thing you came when you did.’  He was totally shocked! He asked the nurse who had I talked too? She told him, ‘No one, he just woke up from a coma.’ He told the nurse that no one was to speak to me including her until he came back. When he returned, he had a large group of doctors with him.  He asked me to repeat what I said.  I did. He said there was no way that I saw him, that I was dead by then. He asked me to tell him what else I remembered. I told them all I remembered as it happened and described all I saw.  They were all shocked because I was dead during the whole thing. I remember that later he told me that before my episode he was an atheist. But no more now, though.

 It was quite a story in the Miami Herald for quite a long time.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  July, 1957

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?    Allergic reaction    Clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Disturbing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was floating above the room, watching everything that was going on.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was completely conscious.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The other people in the room.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       None. I just felt peaceful.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw everything that was going on in the room.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     My main attitudes were about death. From that time until today, I don’t fear dying. In fact I look forward to it.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have told my story to many people, especially people afraid of dying.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Since that episode I have had many experiences that would kill anyone else, but not me.  Example right now, I am recovering from a broken neck.  The top three vertebra were broken and that usually results in being paralyzed, such as happened to Christopher Reeves.  My neck was broken in the same place.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1joseph_g_nde.html