{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1joseph_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Joseph C NDE 7780","mylang":"de"}
          	        Joseph C NDE 7780  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Joseph C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4023 Joseph C NDE 7780  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					There were voices during a life-threatening event. Then I saw and heard deceased or spiritual beings such as angels, archangels, and deceased beings.  This was very limited during dying.  After surgery when I did die, I hovered above my body.  I saw and heard the people in the operating room trying to revive me.  I was whisked through the hospital floors and rooms, still observing those who were in attendance of my surgeries.  They were trying to revive me before I passed over.  

Then I saw three people who had also just passed over, but I am unsure if it was the same hospital.  I am not sure if it was minutes or hours when these beings spoke either encouraging words or words of warning.   I remember those occurrences in detail.  I think I was in a dark void and scared before they came to help me rise.  I started to further separate from the scene and went through the ceilings, up to the sky, and into orbit.  I heard two angels talking and struggling with me because of my weight and another reason.  

Then they handed me over to Jesus.   When I was in heaven, or some may term it something else, I saw angels and God.  God communicated directly and through an Angel. I saw biblical people I had not learned of yet.   At another point closer to the beginning I think, I was in a court setting for my life review.  I was shown what happened to me, my life, my sins, my love, and forgiveness of others by me. I cried for my sins, my shame, and my repentance. I was very shameful, mortified and sorry.  At one point, I saw where my physical body was being healed. 

I may have been about 3 hours in heaven.  

Then I came back as they were wheeling me to the incinerator in the morgue.  I woke up and slightly crying as the two orderlies were wheeling me away.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1969/1970

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related. Criminal attack. Drug or medication overdose.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I saw events related to a few crimes and more, as I was asked to leave my body a day or two after I had returned, too.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Much more consciousness and awareness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       In Heaven or EARTH, when among God and the Archangels, their glory, power or mere presence.  The spirits' own abilities are at their more natural state. One can tap into the cosmic consciousness or just be more aware of Truth, regardless of time.  Time counts differently too.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     It's hard to discern at the time with so many new, outlandish, and surreal experiences. Awesome things happening but I would conclude our spirits resonate at a higher frequency.  The place I was at was like a shorter or faster cycle or day, so time may seem faster.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Hard to recall exactly, but if I focused on something, I became in tune with it or able to see it at a micro level, in all respects.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Hearing is a subjective term, as it is derived from bones and tympanic membrane through biological means.  The spirit is more aware of things in deeper discrimination by other means, but I also feel our abilities are amplified exponentially but held back by ourselves in our physical state, at our time of death, commensurately.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I feel the tunnel is a wormhole or transporter of sorts and have more ideas or proposed knowledge.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Innocent sisters who were harmed and their killer, my grandparents as they are now, (but who were alive at the time).

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   If you could see stars at the sun and see it without burning or blinking and to be enveloped by it, and have the heat equate to warmth and love instead of incineration.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Tunnel rooms, light, large 'court'

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calm, protected, at ease, great! Could be blatantly honest and not be scared.  I felt loved, above all, but also the sad and bad during 'life's playback' and 'judgment'.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I would say that I didn't exactly feel so perfect or aware! That's a bit conceited or presumptuous, but yes, more so than before, much more.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     During the playback or judgment and saw future events (which are the past years)

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     From mine and the world's, but more than one path or outcome was shown.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   2nd grade, Roman Catholic, Catholic school

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     After remembering, recently, I am more religious and mindful of not sinning or trying not to, and fearful of sinning or even cutting grass or stepping on an ant, as all life is precious to God.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   Catholic, Christian, Orthodox, Evangelical Good question

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   God, Angels, Archangels, other beings, not from our planet or plane.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   Jesus, Holy Blessed Mary, Enoch ( I mistook him for Moses as I had not learned about him then, not toil laatbye?ar oin fact).

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     We are not to know such details

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Yes definately does

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     God and supreme beings and info on planets especially the Sun.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Definately does

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Varies.  

After the NDE:

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Varies. Most don't believe

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Events foretold came to happen      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1joseph_c_nde.html