{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1josep_c_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Josep C Probable NDE 7866","mylang":"de"}
          	        Josep C Probable NDE 7866  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Josep C Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			4073 Josep C Probable NDE 7866  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was at the Hospital and lying in a special chair for blood donations.  I remember being a bit nervous because my wife was in surgery from a serious adenoma. I don't remember losing consciousness, but I do recall I was in another place.  I was hovering over fields of green grass, and then I was floating over smooth green hills.  They were beautiful and lush fields underneath a blue sky. I think there were some farm animals, but I do not clearly remember that. I do clearly remember the feelings of happiness, stillness, and fullness. Suddenly, I found myself passing through a tunnel of light; and at the end of the tunnel, I saw the faces of the three medical assistants while I was reconnecting with my body. They were shaking my body and palming my face trying to awaken me. They did not know what happened.  They suggested that I should not be donating blood at this time. I did not tell my experience to anyone because I wanted to come back to my wife.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  6th March 1996

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain           Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   I lost my consciousness during a blood donation, when I reconnected my body, at minimum three medical assistants were shaking my body and slapping my face.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   I think it is less because in the experience, I was not aware that my body was connected for a blood donation.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       This is uncertain, I think, in my experience I did not have much consciousness of what was happening. The more I recall is the feelings explained above, feelings I have never had in dreams.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     All in calmness seemed to be slower, but I not sure.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I think no changes

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I think no changes

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     It was like passing through a spiral of light, but in any case, I was not aware of deciding to go through it. I found myself travelling in it.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   The colors of the landscape were more vivid.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       The feelings in that brief moment were of happiness, stillness, and fullness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   I was not a regular practitioner

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     We are more spiritual than we really think, but religious practice is not the unique way. Practice your own desire on searching inside one's self through breathing and calmness, those are enough to connect with your interior.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   I have been interested to know about other religions as buddism

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I could not associate the experience to a usual dream.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am more spiritual.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I moderately fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It is difficult because of the brief time and I could not appreciate the landscape.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience less accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of th  The experience 'was and is' difficult to be accurate, but after these years it's impossible to forget, it's like a magic experience, very far from a usual dream.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I have had punctually some extraordinary experiences of beings, as you said 'unearthly beings'. All experiences serve to grow as a person, and to love and cherish family and friends.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It's meaningful because it provokes a chain reaction in my thoughts about life.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    After a few weeks with my wife. The reaction was of acceptance because of she knew this matter. I do not think my experience could influence my wife.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   The knowledge was from my wife who works with elder people in the geriatrics field. No, I do not think the experience was affected from this knowledge.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I viewed it as a pleasant experience.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     Although in recent years, I have had some extraordinary experiences related to unearthly beings, I cannot say if the OBE was real, I was not very aware of it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Experience is good to grow as a person, to cherish and expand love.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       At this moment, it's correct, thank you.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1josep_c_probable_nde.html