{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1josef_t_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Josef T Probable NDE 6479","mylang":"de"}
          	        Josef T Probable NDE 6479  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Josef T Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3208 Josef T Probable NDE 6479  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					After my first surgery I was extremely weak, tired and in terrible pain. I knew a second operation was necessary. I just knew I wouldn’t survive it. It was so clear to me that I said my farewells to my wife. It was not that difficult because my life energy was so low that I did not have a choice. It was so clear to me. Next, I was in a state where I knew I was dead. That was okay. Then I felt this incredible peace. I did not see anything. But the feeling was so overwhelmingly intensive, clear and enormous like nothing else I had ever experienced. Everything was simply well. It was this incredible peace.

I knew my wife Beate and my two children (18 and 20 years old) were suffering and were very sad about my death. I also knew that the suffering and sadness were not real, temporary, and in fact a deception. I did not feel pain, because where I was, there was no pain. I also knew that pain was not real. All was well and peaceful. Under no circumstances did I want to return to that world. I returned against my will and it was horrible: cold, loud, bright and painful, like a terrible birth. I remembered the peace and tranquility, both in my subconscious and conscious mind.  It remained clear even after 10 weeks of coma and sedation. I knew I would never forget. It became the most real in my life.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  18.09.2012

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related. While under general anesthesia.    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   While mountain climbing in the Alps on the September 12, 2012, and at 2555 meters elevation.  I suddenly experienced a sharp pain in my stomach.  It was a rupture of the inner lining of my stomach aorta.  I was alone.  In excruciating pain, it took me two hours to climb back down.  Then I was airlifted to hospital and had my first surgery that night.  The next few days I was mostly unconscious. Six days after the first surgery I underwent the second one.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Totally clear, no doubts.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the entire experience.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was not able to see (had no vision). It was a really strong feeling. The new perception was that worldly pain and evil were simply an illusion.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I did not hear anything. Everything was a feeling.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Infinite peace, all was well.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I knew that all was well and divine.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I did not want to go back but I wasn’t asked. I got sucked back. A while later when I was briefly conscious I told my wife and children that I had come back because of them  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   Ich bin katholischer Theologe und Seelsorger, aber sehr kritisch gegenüber der kirchlichen Lehre, zugleich offen gegenüber der geistigen Welt, der größeren Dimension hinter unserer engen Raum-Zeit Wahrnehmung. Das Konzept der Wiedergeburt halte ich für plausibel.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am more relaxed and clear and know that God is in everything and everywhere around me. I can’t get lost or go wrong. Religious rituals and activities are unimportant. Important is the attitude and belief inside

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   Meine Wurzeln sind katholisch. Aber mein Horizont heute lässt sich nicht auf Religion oder Konfession reduzieren. Ich glaube, dass das Geheimnis Gott alles umfasst und in allem zu finden ist. Alles, was ist, ist das Spiel der göttlichen Liebe. In allem und in jedem Menschen versteckt sich diese Liebe und will neu gefunden und erkannt werden.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   A knowingness that all was well. Peace is all encompassing.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     To this day I am still sometimes scared, anxious or stressed, but then I remember my experience and soon all is clear and alright because I know all is well.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   die Eindringlichkeit und Gewissheit dieser Erfahrung war unsagbar klarer und nachhaltiger als alle anderen je gemachten Erfahrungen

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Most importantly: Even though here in our world we might experience suffering, pain, and separation, this is nonexistent from the divine perspective.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    As soon as I was able, I spoke about it. Today I often tell my story in church or counseling groups. The reaction is always positive and sympathetic.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I knew the NDE existed in conjunction with a tunnel and light. I always knew these experiences were real.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Everything was so clear and obvious devoid of doubt. This felt experience was more real than anything else.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Even today I know my experience was overwhelmingly real. I just know and I have no doubts.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1josef_t_probable_nde.html