{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1josef_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Josef P NDE 6546","mylang":"de"}
          	        Josef P NDE 6546  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Josef P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3229 Josef P NDE 6546  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Before my experience I was more less an atheist. However, religion was interesting to me, so I tried to read the Bible, but I did not understand it, but I can say that I had no worries about hell and heaven and was able to take life easy. The factors in my childhood that affected me tended to be positive, nice ones rather than negative bad ones, so I had developed into a positive sort of person. (This is my own personal opinion.) On February 1990, I was at a public party where I drank a lot of alcohol. There was some trouble during the party, so officials called the police to help them. 

Two policemen escorted me from the party and took me outside the building where they asked me to remove the sign from my jacket. It said 'Havel for President' (He became president after that.) This was immediately after the Velvet Revolution in the Czech Socialistic Republic, at a time when every policeman had to be a Communist. The situation at that time was unclear, both for the revolutionaries and for the police too. So our discussion was quite difficult. 'But I have been a hero!' I was thinking. No wonder I disagreed about removing the sign. They decided to remove it by force, and that's when the fight started. Well, a drunken man without weapons has no chance to win against two policemen with truncheons ('Billy clubs') I got hit again and again, the last blow landing on my head (probably, I am not sure.) I do not remember much because I was drunk. I do remember that I fell down. I was thinking in my mind that this was the end of me, so I continued lying there on the frozen grass. I heard one of the policemen saying to the other, 'You killed him.' 

I lay there for some time until eventually I noticed this sleepy, drunken man lying alone on the grass. I thought to myself, 'Why he is lying here? He could freeze. I'd better wake him up or get him indoors off this frozen grass. I must do something before something serious happens to him!' But as I examined his appearance to see if I could identify him, I thought, 'That's strange, this man has my shoes and my jacket on, and he has the same hair as me, too.' It took me several moments to comprehend that the man was ME. It was the first time I had ever seen myself from a distance. It was a shock! Then I realized that I had no idea how to get back into my body, so I decided to find somebody who could help me. My wife? As soon I got the idea of going home, I was home almost in that same moment. My kids were sleeping in their room, and my wife was reading a book in the bedroom. She twitched when I came into bedroom, turned her head in my direction, trying to figure out what she had felt. But she was in no way able to see or hear me, so I decided to return so I could rescue my body. When I got back, my body was still alone in the same place. 

Suddenly I got a feeling of freedom and peace! I felt completely well and my panic was gone. Soon, I saw a small bright point above me, which seemed to beckon me to go nearer to it. After a bit, I felt myself being pulled toward that light and my movement toward it increased in speed. Right at the start I was moving quite slowly, but the speed increased until I was flying along! The speed was so high that I thought it might kill me and I felt that I was flying to the end of space. I was going so fast that all the objects, which were passing me, created in my mind, the impression of a tunnel. During my flight, I had a special experience of knowledge, because whenever I had a question, immediately I got a nonverbal answer. 

When I reached the bright light, I was immediately surrounded by this light and became a part of it. I was engulfed by the feeling of the extraordinary love. I became aware of a being which was an ingredient of the light and which was nonverbally communicating with me. During our discussion, there were no secrets, because the being knew all my secrets. In fact, he knew everything I had ever done. This is a place where lies do not exist. The being knew all my life from the time I was born up until that moment (every second of it!) and everything I had been thinking that whole time. 

Suddenly there appeared a panorama of my life. We both watched it and communicated about it nonverbally. This was strange for me, watching myself as a separate person. So, when 'the other person' (me) did something bad during my panorama, I immediately thought, 'That person was cruel or ugly, etc.' It felt really horrible for me to be making these judgments of myself. I felt the influence of words I had said and things I had done to other people in the past, so I was crying a lot. Fortunately, the being was comforting me with a lot of love. 

After the panorama was over, I was informed that I had to go back, because I had to do more on Earth. I started crying again, thinking, 'Why do I have to go back, when I am feeling so delightful? I do not want to go back to that dirty worldùhere it is so beautiful!' It did not help. The being showed me some things from my future to convince me that there were urgent reasons for me to return. I didn't know how long I had been there, because there was no time there. It could have been one hour, but also ten years. Then I found myself above my body, which was being tended to by an emergency doctor. 

Suddenly I was back inside my body. Two or three sneezes and back to reality! They probably would have liked to have taken me to a hospital, but I stood up and just walked away. The next morning I woke up with a thick head and a strange dream in my mind. I thought it was very strange that my spirit had not been drunk. I could remember very clearly everything from the time I was in my spirit, but nothing of what was going on with my drunken body. Two or three years after my experience, my life had returned to the way it had been before. I had almost forgotten the 'dream,' until one day I opened a small publication in which was written some sentences from the new edition of Raymond Moody's book. I immediately recognized that the 'dream' had not been a dream! At that moment, all the love and the whole experience resurfaced into my conscious mind. I was shocked! I experienced a strong feeling of the invisible presence of somebody full of love. I started crying and I asked, 'What do you want from me? Tell me please. What shall I do to become as nice as you?'  

No answer, but soon afterwards, I felt an urge to open the Bible, and I began to read, and almost right away it all became clear to me.  That is when my life completely changed. Since then, I've always tried to be as helpful as I could, to be an example of love, and to make whomever I could happy. However, it was too hard on my body and in October 2012, I had an infarction (heart attack).  

Now I no longer have enough strength to continue my ascetic life because I need to start thinking about taking care of myself. But how can I change what's in my mind, when I know the way is to the bright light, where all doubts about love end. I know I really have nothing to worry about from death, about being there again! It will be so nice for me to meet the 'light being', so full of love, again, at the same place as before. Even though I may have built a nice home for my wife and three kids, have two grandchildren and a successful life, my real home is there. It cannot be forgotten. I think about it every day!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  February 1990

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Criminal attack. Direct head injury    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Two policemen attacked me, because I disagreed with what they required me to do. I lost the very short fight.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I saw my wife, my kids, the emergency doctor, and my body.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   My body was drunk during experience (and I remember nothing about what was happening to it), while my spirit was alert.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     ? Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.  I am not able to say how long I was there, ten minutes, or a hundred years. Events seemed to run simultaneously. Timing? I really do not know. Maybe there is time, but it's completely different.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     All was clearer.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    More vivid. The communication was nonverbal, hearing was clearer.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It is not possible to describe it sufficiently. I had the feeling that I was speeding so fast, that the objects passing me created something like a tunnel, or a round tube. I am not sure, but what would have been the 'wall' of the tunnel didn't seem to be a closed surface.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I encountered some beings who knew me, and the other way around, and I had a feeling that we had known each other for thousands of years, but I am not able to specify their names. It looked to me like we were, are now, and will always be, connected.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Bright white light, brighter than sun, but with less glare.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       First of all, stress and concern for my body. After that, I felt peace, unearthly love, and understanding.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     For example, when I had some questions about space, immediately I got the answer, in the context of all the questions which could have arisen.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     Unfortunately, it was not allowed for me to remember any details. I remember that after a period of time (I think twenty three to twenty five years after) there was supposed to be a big happy change in my life (death?)

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Agnostic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Every day, every time I am trying to make a decision, I consult with the people involved. Before my final decisions, (at home or at work) I always try to measure the good and the bad effects, what will turn out well and what will turn out badly. If it seems that it will be 'good,' then I consider how many people will be influenced. How many people will be happy and how many unhappy. The majority must be always satisfied, this is my priority, even though one or two of my friends or relatives might be unhappy.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     no beliefs

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Love is of the utmost important.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   I am not sure of his name - just light being

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     Friedns which I met there. I had feeling I know each of beings there.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably does not exist

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     awareness that love is the most important for all people. Means psychological love.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There are no three-dimensional words for a four, or more, dimensional world.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember events from experience more then events which happened the same day or day before, after.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I have a feeling I am able to recognize how people are feeling during life situations better than before.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        You are not supposed to disdain your life or other lives. Everybody is important, even if it doesn't look that way to you. Everybody has their own assignment.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Approximately five years later. I tried to tell my wife about it, but she was not curious at all. My kids know about it. I think they are living in a more spiritual world than I was at their ages. Some people are glad to hear about it. I hope they are influenced positively. Some people think I am stupid. Mostly people with dishonest lives do not want to hear about it. They become very fidgety when they have to listen to my story. I don't take care, they should know about it anyway.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     First I thought it had been created by my mind, but it was not like a dream, it was more real. It was more like a regular life experience. I could not understand that until I had the opportunity to read the research done by Dr. Moody. It convinced me to acknowledge to myself that it was really real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     My standpoint is unchanging. I am sure it really happened in my life.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   I was interviewed by a Czech student who asked me about it. I told her my whole experience and answered her questions. She was studying this and doing research.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I saw some experiences on YouTube which contained things about hell. I do not know if that is important for your research or not. I have a feeling (not sure) that I had to cross a big grey morass full of grey people. Some tried to catch my leg to pull me down as I slowly flew above them. It was a horrible experience.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1josef_p_nde.html