{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jose_m_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Jose M Probable NDE 6162","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jose M Probable NDE 6162  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jose M Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2929 Jose M Probable NDE 6162  					  				  			         			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had been really sick. There was blood present in every body secretion and I felt very ill. My parents, however, decided not to take me to the doctor until next day. That night there was a storm outside and I went to bed. 

Suddenly, it was like I woke up. I was hovering above the room and I could see myself from above at an angle. I could also see the window next to my bed, and the rain and lightning outside. The next thing I knew* I was in a tunnel, which was very dark. I did not touch any of the walls of the tunnel, which seemed to be round. I went through it effortlessly, like floating. I just moved. I could see there was a Light** at the end and I advanced slowly to it, with no fear. After crossing the exit, I was completely surrounded by the Light. I tried to look back to see if the tunnel was still there, but I could not see it. Everywhere I could see was only this Light, which was of a kind I've never seen in this world - it was a white so pure that would be impossible here. I don't have words to describe it. I know I had a conversation with the Light, the content of which I don’t remember. I do remember, however, that the communication was not through sound. I listened to the voice, but it communicated directly putting the concepts of what He wanted to speak directly into my consciousness. I did communicate back to the Light but not by speaking. I just thought of the answers and the Light understood. It was a direct exchange of ideas (so to speak) from one consciousness to another. Of the whole conversation, all I remember is that I was told 'Go back'. 

Next thing I knew, I woke up. I was on my bed. I sat and looked out of the window. It was still storming, and there was still lightning. 

* I have to clarify that the whole experience was like by scenes. There was before and after, but the time advanced not as usual. It was more like a series of before and after but with not much of a sense of progression as we have in our regular life. With that in mind, when I say 'next thing I knew' I mean that all around me changed abruptly without a process of change happening. I was in scene one and abruptly switched to scene two. 

**I use uppercase L for talking about the Light because I know the Light was a personal being. I think the Light was probably God, but I could not tell for sure.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1995

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Illness  'I was very sick, there was no doctors or any grown up around. I went to the doctor next day with my mother.'  Other 'I was very sick, there was no doctors or any grown up around. I went to the doctor next day with my mother.'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was alert through the whole experience. I could not recall having different levels of consciousness or alertness, but this happened so many years ago, I might have forgotten this kind of details. I do not know.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time was weird. There was definitely a succession of before and after, but it did not feel like time in our usual sense.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Normal.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    During the time I saw myself in bed (at the beginning of the experience) it was normal. Later, I did not listen to things. When the Light communicated with me it was not through spoken word.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   After crossing the tunnel, all I could see was the Light. This Light was of a kind I've never seen in this world, it was a white so pure that would be impossible here. I don't have words to describe it. The Light also was a personal intelligent being. I know I had a conversation with the Light. I could not tell if the Light itself was God or an angel, or what but I could tell it was a being I could communicate with.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt a lot of curiosity about what was going on. I also felt the place was familiar. I felt no fear. When I was surrounded by the Light I felt warm, I am not sure how. Since I was suspended in the Light, I just felt like I was completely powerless, but I trusted the Light and felt completely ok with that.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Unknown

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Again, I was just a kid. I did not realize any inconsistencies and I probably would have not realize them even if I had found them.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I just have less doubt than I would about God's existence. I think thanks to this experience I am much more religious and spiritual than I would be otherwise.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   The Light I saw was a being. I recall no other light but the Light at the end of the tunnel, and that Light was a being. The Light had no voice in our earthly sense, he just put the concepts he wanted to communicate directly into my mind.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I think the Light is God. I do not remember the Light presenting himself as such, but I kinda just know it.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Uncertain     I knew I was dead because I saw my body lying down. I knew all was happening after death. In that sense that confirmed there was something after life. But I was just a kid, I am not sure how I internalized all of that at that age.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I was just a small kid at the time, and probably not very conscious about spirituality. I was a religious kid, I was raised Catholic and all, but I still was just a kid. But I can tell having this experience gives me a different perspective in life than I would probably have had otherwise.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Uncertain   Uncertain   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Some aspects of the experience were and are still difficult. Explaining the difference of time (it seemed there was time, but it advanced differently than normal). Explaining the nature of the Light and the nature of our conversation has always been difficult too. It seems words do not suffice to describe those things, and it makes sense because those are not normal experiences that humans in this world would have a word for.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   It is like a movie in my head. As I have gained experience with language and philosophy, etc. I have had been able to explain my experience much better because the memory is so vivid that I can just re play it and for most of it is like living it again.     I just never get to remember the conversation with the Light. Everything else is really clear.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I sometimes have awareness of the existence of a spiritual being around me. But I might just be crazy or something, I don't really know if that is for real.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The communication with the Light was special. It was a kind of experience completely different from what I ever experienced in this world. I keep learning and understanding my NDE a bit better with time. Also, the command of coming back to this world makes me think there is something else I need to do in this world, that I have a purpose to fulfill that I haven't.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my parents about it next day. I have told a few other people but I am not sure if there was any impact. I am a man of science, and do not tell this kind of things without being very clear about my own doubts on it, and without being as rational as possible about it. So, maybe that is why I do not get emotional responses from people - at least not immediate.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   I probably did not since I was a small kid, but I do not really recall having or not having such prior knowledge.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I did not know if it was a dream or reality, but it did feel like reality.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     I think the experience was more likely real. One reason is because I keep learning from it, as the memory of it is so vivid in my mind and because I do not think my 9 year old brain could fabricate things like the Light, which was something impossible to happen in our material world.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I still ponder the possibility of it all being just a dream or me being crazy. My intuition says it’s real though.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jose_m_probable_nde.html