{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jose_g_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Jose G Probable NDE 9397","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jose G Probable NDE 9397  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jose G Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						5033 Jose G Probable NDE 9397  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I was anesthetized for a simple operation. Suddenly, I found myself in the upper part of the operating room.  I saw my body lying on the operation table.  One of the two surgeons looked at the ceiling where I was and smiled.  The other surgeon looked at the anesthesiologist as she worked on my body. 

  I felt mentally in an empty space but with a dense atmosphere and an awareness of a much higher reality than my earthly reality. The well-being was totally ineffable.  I immediately understood the truth.  I told myself during the experience, that it was the truth that I had been searching for so long. 

  When I woke up from the anesthesia, I knew that I had been in another reality. The ineffability of the experience after 34 years remains hard to explain but I still amuse myself every day remembering that feeling.  It was clear to me that I had not been looking for the truth as it was shown to me during the experience.  From then on, I’ve been looking for it. I graduated in philosophy and studied oriental philosophies.  I am clear that I must always try to be a better person.    

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1988  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.    Surgery-related       Other I only know that I was anesthetized  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I saw the operating room as described above  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   it was a higher reality  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       In feeling the well-being and transmission of the truth  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     I don't know how to define it  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was just pure thought  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was just pure thought  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

  Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm.     Another dimension.  
  
What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, love, Happiness, wisdom  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I knew the truth  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of No return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Agnostic     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes       

What is your religion now?       No comment   spiritual awareness  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I absolutely didn't believe in immortality  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Spiritual, and consciousness of life after death  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     the truth  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The truth  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

  During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Uncertain.     Although, I came to that conclusion  
  
Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     feeling of love  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I’m very spiritual  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes empathy  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Part of it can be explained but for other parts, words don’t exist.  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  Clear and unforgettable  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I recently found out that some people who had experiences noticed that their watches stopped working; curiously it happened to me, but until now I had not made the connection with the experience.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Knowing that I will get the answer to everything, because although the truth was shown to me, I did not remember it after waking up  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    After some months, and the reaction was disbelief.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Every day it’s more real.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No            				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jose_g_probable_nde.html