{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jorge_v_nde_4271.html","mytitle":"Jorge V NDE 4271","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jorge V NDE 4271  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jorge V NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2125 Jorge V NDE 4271  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was admitted for surgery with high blood-pressure problems.  As soon as I was under anesthesia I started seeing images of my life, right back to childhood. I saw my parents, my six brothers, my children and their mothers. I went back over many stages of my life until I came to a stage where I began to see the things I had done wrong, but passing before me in very rapid succession. I then saw my present wife, we were married just two weeks, weeping and begging me not to leave her, asking if God had allowed our union then why was I leaving her. She was saying she loved me; she would always respect me and would love me all her life. I was replying that I also loved her a lot and would do forever, but I could see a dark tunnel and a supernatural force was pulling me inside it. 

I could still see my wife in the distance but I could not stop myself leaving, until I lost sight of her. That is when I began to understand that I was dying. I asked God to forgive all of my sins and I continued through the tunnel.

I saw a brilliant light, which I was approaching at great speed. As I passed into it, I felt a great happiness and peace. I felt so moved at being inside this resplendent place. I seemed to be floating, and then I looked down and saw a group of people gathered around a coffin. I saw my closest relatives and my wife weeping inconsolably, then suddenly this image was fading and something was again pulling me toward the door of light. I came back to the tunnel at great speed. Then, images of cities appeared, many and unfamiliar to me, and I understood that I had come back to this life. I thanked God for this new chance to live. I could see myself preaching in Christian congregations, and always with my present wife by my side. I continued to see images of unknown cities and could see that our bodies had aged. We were old, but continued together in happiness.

I then heard a voice, which asked ‘Why are you weeping?’ I opened my eyes and again saw the operating theatre and the anesthetist, who was asking me what I could see. I replied that I was seeing my life, and I went on weeping inconsolably without wanting to. He said ‘You gave us a lot of worry, but thanks to God you are now getting better’, and I passed out again for a moment. One hour later I recovered consciousness completely and that vision, or dream, that I went through is so present in my mind, even after several days, that I feel very happy to have been through this experience.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  jueves 14 de enero de 2010

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Anesthesia for surgery.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I realized that I had died.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Sorrow at being separated from my wife, much peace on crossing into the light, happiness and much gratitude to God for being returned to life.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   CRISTIANO BAUTISTA

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have decided to serve God according to my Christian beliefs.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   CRISTIANO BAUTISTA

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have decided to serve God according to my Christian beliefs.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I made a commitment to God to be faithful to His word.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have learned to love my fellows with greater intensity.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have shared with family. They find it surprising and wonderful.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jorge_v_nde_4271.html