{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jorge_v_nde.html","mytitle":"Jorge V NDE 1113","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jorge V NDE 1113  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jorge V NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						555  Jorge V NDE  1113  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I had a terrible toothache and I decided to go to the dentist to have my molar extracted. I received local anesthesia and I died. I left this world, I knew nothing, I felt nothing and I saw myself floating without feeling my body or mass, in the air. I looked up and I saw a very brilliant LIGHT, I saw downwards and I saw myself in the same dentist seat with the dentist trying to revive me, and trying to find out if my heart was beating. The feeling of abandonment, relaxation and happiness is difficult to describe and I wanted to remain in that condition. I suddenly saw that I was rapidly descending and entering my body, awaking from that marvelous sensation. The dentist was scared and she kept saying that I should have told her that I was a cardiac risk and that I was not to receive any anesthetic. I had this experience when nothing was known about this experience, especially in Cuba where we do not have any information on this regard.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    1970

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Heart attack    Clinical death Reaction to local anesthesia.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Totally alert and aware of what was happening.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Things happened too fast.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    No sounds or voices as the dentist was calling me and I did not hear her.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Light was brilliant and attracted me. I wanted to go into it even if it bothered me as I could not see if there was anything else.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No     I was inside the room where she was extracting my molar I did not leave the premises.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   católico practicante

What is your religion now?      Moderate   Cristiano evangelico

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best: That feeling of PEACE. The worst: To come back. I wanted to remain in that state of relaxation and PEACE.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    No

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   I had a very important one, but I would like to describe it independently and with more time, as that experience marked my life and my religious beliefs. I know that GOD in his generosity gave me the opportunity of talking about it and I would like to tell it to someone that can publish it. I had not mentioned this before as answering this questionnaire I have come to it.

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain     

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jorge_v_nde.html