{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jorge_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Jorge R NDE 3287","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jorge R NDE 3287  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jorge R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1218 Jorge R NDE 3287  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

It was a Saturday during the day and I was at school. It was during recess and like most kids, I was playing. I had poise and was well formed, as a boy. A bigger playmate, who was obese, grabbed me from behind, around my neck and by the seat of my pants and started to run, dragging me. I was very sickly, at that age, and always suffering from tonsillitis and asthma. For that reason, I began choking and turning purple. My playmate wasn't aware of that. When he did notice, he let me go, I landed on my feet, and I remember that I looked at the ground and saw a shiny object that looked like a coin. I stooped to retrieve it and, at that instant, I fell, unconscious.

I instantly found myself on a pathway like in a gigantic garden, and there was light, much light, all around me. I felt a peace and tranquility that I've never felt, since. I was walking on the path; one could see much vegetation, plants, flowers, trees, etc., etc., etc. Towards the end of the walkway, one saw an enormous central light and it was as if a superior being interrogated me and asked me what I was doing there. Like the child that I was, I started to explain what I've just said. That I was at school, that it was a Saturday during the day and that I was at recess, that my playmate... and etc., etc., etc., and at that moment I awoke and I was stretched out on the ground on my back and all my playmates of the same grade were surrounding me.

Between a few of them, they picked me up and carried me to splash me with water and revive me. It was a very beautiful experience and I didn't tell anyone, not even my parents. It stayed archived in my brain and it wasn't until twenty-five years later that it saw the light. 

Recently, I've arrived at conclusions about this marvelous experience which caused me to question everything that has been and will be. Many times, I wondered why I didn't stay over there, but with time I've accepted that it was a very rich experience and I learned to co-exist with it. Today, I am very spiritual and know there exists something better than the material and physical life, which we humans all have. I am preparing myself for the trip and accomplishing all the missions that correspond to us. I have three children; I'm married nearly twenty years and happy as one can be. I am at the stage of learning and discovery; I've been initiated or illuminated and I think that the experience I've described was an opportunity I need to take advantage of. What I never knew was the time that passed during the experience I mentioned. I don't know, either, if, I am, as an adult, the same as the child of that time. It is not easy to explain all this but I hope I've contributed.

Yours, Jorge R. 

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    1978

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death .  Before the experience I was dying, or something similar.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  
No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I found myself in the other life.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      When I found myself in the other life.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   It was without a doubt that I passed onto another dimension or another real life which awaits us after this one.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    Paid more attention to everything that surrounded me.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     I found myself on a special path or walkway, surrounded by vegetation (oasis, Eden, gigantic garden, etc., etc., etc.).

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     As I explained, previously, I saw a superior being and he interrogated me.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Apart from the normal light that one appreciates in a park during the day, I saw an immense, central light at the end of the path. It was as if a superior being was seated at the end, very luminous. Additionally, he interrogated me about why I was in that place.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Un oasis, eden o jardin gigante imposible de explicar, era de tro mundo.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Many emotions, as I've explained.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I found that there exists something better and I prepare for it, day by day.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I don't know but I suppose that after this experience I tended to learn many uncommon things, like: aura, Reiki, spirituality, Gnosis, psychic energy, Ouija, reading every day, etc., etc., etc.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes     Today I believe there exists a superior being and I don't believe in the religions invented by man.

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Today I believe there exists a superior being and I don't believe in the religions invented by man.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I believe that it was an experience that taught me to prepare myself, teach, love, investigate, question and make many other inquiries with respect to the death of this container that we call a body.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  It's permitted me to be a better person and understood those around me, as well as to know that death is the beginning of a life that is much better than this one.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   It's difficult to express this type of experience, as it's so strong. Words fail and it's not easy to explain something that others don't understand. (They look at you strangely; they think you are making it up.)

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I think yes, since currently nothing scares me and I like to investigate everything that is or might be. My senses are more perceptive and I have strange halfway prophetic or apocalyptic dreams, but they're not monstrous and they don't scare me. To the contrary, they leave me very tranquil and at peace.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The experience in itself is amazing and very significant. It must be lived through, to be understood.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    My experience occurred when I was about thirteen or fourteen years of age. I started recounting it to half the world about twenty-five years afterwards. At the beginning, it cost me to tell the story, because I felt misunderstood. But today, I could not care less and I am delighted to tell the story and to amaze myself anew - that way, also, I don't forget.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     The experience, as I relived it years later, was as if it had just happened yesterday.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     Today I remember it exactly as it was around twenty-seven years ago.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I want to communicate to the entire world that we should be more spiritual and prepare ourselves in life to accomplish our missions and in that way be more completely ready for the trip which awaits us when we abandon our containers called bodies.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      I took some time to answer, for it's very complete, but I imagine that is because you need to corroborate the information.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jorge_r_nde.html