{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1joop_nde.html","mytitle":"Joop NDE 973","mylang":"de"}
          	        Joop NDE 973  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Joop NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						442  Joop NDE  973  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

It was in October 1972 after an LSD trip my NDE started.


At a certain moment, I left my body and floated above it, I saw everything happening in the room. Everybody panicked because they thought I was going to die. I was sucked into a tunnel where I floated, there were many animals (like birds) around me that made the most wonderful music, and it was as if I was being welcomed.


Floating, I went in the direction of the light that I felt I had to go to.


Having arrived there, I felt so much happiness and love that I couldn't continue further up to the transition (threshold) between the tunnel and the light. Telepathically they told me everything. When I wanted to make a move forward a girl appeared with beautiful red hair. Then I had to leave all this and floated through the planetary system, back into my body, I felt reborn and full of energy.


Then I didn't know what this was and thought it was part of the LSD trip. All the people that saw me later felt like I had changed a lot (positively) which I didn't understand.


In 1975, I met my wife in a bar, there was an angel with red hair, and I just knew that she was mine. We are now married for twenty-five years. That all of this was a NDE I only found out twenty-five years later when there was a television program about children that made drawings of a tunnel with light.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    October  1972

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes     lsd trip   lsd gebruik.Suicide attempt.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Native American

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Floating through a room and seeing everybody lying there.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      No idea.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   There is no time or space.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    A lot of music being made by the animals (like birds).

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     Through a tunnel.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Animals like birds, telepathically.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Yes, at the end of the tunnel.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     That it is all not so important.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Not wanting to go back but simply send back through the universe.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   niets

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist   niets

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   I didn't know about NDEs, thought it was part of the LSD trip.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Always the feeling whether something was good or bad.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best was knowing everything, worst having to go back.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Reacted very badly though they had lots of spiritual background.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1joop_nde.html