{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jools_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Jools G NDE 3367","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jools G NDE 3367  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jools G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1313 Jools G NDE 3367  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I remember the suffocating feeling of the asthma and next thing I realized that the panic surrounding this feeling had gone and I felt totally unaware of my physical body. I was falling down a well lined with the most strikingly white soft material I'd ever seen. I remember the wonderful feeling that there was nothing I could hurt myself on. I have no idea how long I was in this blissful state. Before I got to the bottom, I saw that the ambulance had arrived outside the doors to the hospital Accident and Emergency Department. As I became aware of this, I had this instinct to return to my body. As I looked at everything as back in my body it was like everything was made out of mercury - it was truly bizarre. As they took my body into resuscitation, I was aware of the wall to the cubical and as they fought to save me the wall was fragmenting into pieces like a sort of jigsaw puzzle. I knew that if I really wanted to get back to my body for good I had to solve the puzzle and think the pieces back into the right places before 'time ran out'. As I did this I then experienced a feeling like my entire body was on fire, which I assume now was the point when they injected me with something and I was back in my body once more. I had a brief moment of wondering whether to face the pain or try to return to the white tunnel. I have no idea if at that point, I would have had any choice in the matter but here I am today. I have mixed feelings about this whole experience but feel blessed to have had it in a sense as it made me realize how much I had to put right now I have a second chance.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  3rd July 2007

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Heart stopped after severe asthma attack  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Severe asthma attack.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   During the 'white well' experience.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the 'white well' experience.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was truly three dimensional.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Recall no sound.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     The white well lined with soft white material.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It seemed to be this plane but everything was metallic

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happiness and then fear.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Christian Spiritualist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Christian Spiritualist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I can't explain where it came from but I have been left with a deep sense that I have come back to put things right and use my experience to help others.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was very surreal in parts and difficult to find easily understandable analogies to represent to others the experience and what I viewed/saw/felt.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Told family the very next day. Most people find it uncomfortable to acknowledge and think I'm loopy!

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I always thought I'd see a white light and then relatives or a religious icon or a garden, but none of these occurred.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I know it was real - I just know.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know it was real - I just know.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jools_g_nde.html