{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1joni_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Joni P NDE 4552","mylang":"de"}
          	        Joni P NDE 4552  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Joni P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2291 Joni P NDE 4552  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was looking down at the hospital bed where I was lying. I thought I was on some steep stairs, but realized later that was not the case. I was evidently hovering about the ceiling. The next thing I knew I was standing by some hedges that I had come through. A young girl there told me she was my sister and she did look very much like my oldest sister who was eight years older than I was.

She said I was to stay there with her and I asked her if this was school. She said it was something like a school, which made me happy, as I wanted to go to school like my three older sisters. She took my hand and led me down a path into a very beautiful place. Everything was perfect, rolling hills, green grass and a stream running nearby. She said she was not sure if I were able to stay, she would have to leave me for a while to find out. I was not allowed past a certain place. On the other side, it looked like there were crystal buildings which I thought must be the school. She led me to a large tree with outspread branches. She sat me on one of the branches and left. There were a few other children in the tree and some babies on the ground. There was not a sound from any of them. I was happy sitting in the tree looking around and soon my friend returned. She said I could not stay and I would have to return. I was not happy about it, but knew it wasn't up to me. I really hated to leave.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  around 1936/37

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I had erysipelas. I had blood transfusions trying to save me. I was pronounced dead and word was sent to my family. None were present when this happened.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Talking to the little girl and sitting in the tree.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Talking to the little girl and sitting in the tree.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The colors and light and depth perception were more vivid.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I really don't remember hearing anything. We seemed to communicate by thought.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I seemed to be coming out from some hedges when I got there but am not aware of how I got there.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     See main narrative.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     She took my hand and led me down a path into a very beautiful place.  everything was perfect, rolling hills, green grass and a stream running nearby.  She said she was not sure if I was able to stay, she would have to leave me for a while to find out.  I was not allowed past a certain place.  On the other side it looked like there was crystal buildings which I though must be the school.  She led me to a large tree with outspread brances.  She sat me on one of the branches and left.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Excitement and adventure.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I was not allowed past a certain place. On the other side it looked like there were crystal buildings which I thought must be the school.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Baptist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   None

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I was too young to know gifts I had before.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Sitting in the tree and the girl that was my dead sister.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Only a few and it was at least twenty years. I believe they thought I was dreaming.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It could be nothing but real. Even if no one had ever told me I had died I would have known anyhow.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It has always been a part of me and could be nothing but real. Even if no one had ever told me I had died I would have known anyhow.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1joni_p_nde.html