{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1joni_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Joni H NDE 962","mylang":"de"}
          	        Joni H NDE 962  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Joni H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						412  Joni H NDE  962  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

There were no tunnels or sense of being transported - just there, above me was an indescribably WHITE wing. It had no beginning and no end. I could see the feathers in great detail.  There were two voices, but they were not speaking directly to me, but to each other, it went as follows: 'We are going to give her, her new name.' The other voice replied, 'But it hasn't been three days yet.' The first voice said back, 'But we are going to give her, her new name anyway.'


During all this I could see tiny beings without shape, almost like little spots and they were literally painting, artwork of some sort. The colors were so brilliant and the wing described above was more white than we see here, almost luminescent.


I was not afraid, no thoughts except being in awe of the beauty of the many different colors and the whiteness of the huge wing. There was no snapping back into the body or anything like that at all. I was just there, like magic I guess. I have an incredible appreciation of color and flowers much more now, than I did before. I was amazed by the voices, for I could not see anyone, no people, just them speaking to each other about my 'new' name. I suppose life has left it up to me to figure out my new name someday, because they did not tell me what it is.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    April 5, 2001

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Suicide attempt    Clinical death Lethal overdose of drugs, suicide attempt.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was not aware of my physical body at all or anything that had to do with life, or death.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   There did not exist any time, could not feel sense of time or anything of that nature.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    The tiny beings were making high pitched sounds, pleasant, pleasing sounds.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     However, I did not recognize the voices, nor the other sounds.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was most definitely another dimension, but was not like being moved or transported.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     The second vision. My brother and my ex-lover were standing at the foot of my hospital bed, both shouting independently of each other, at me saying, 'I am going to take your son away from you...' in very angry voices. After a six day coma and allowed a regular room, I called my brother and he proceeded to talk very mean to me, as if he had wished I had died, angry and he does have my son now.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I am convinced that there is life, real life, after death, more real than what we are in now.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Very small beings, had no actual shape, as though they were at a distance, best to describe being unable to see their form.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     I can sense other's feelings as though they are my own feelings, I cannot stand to be around what I call now, the dark cloud ambience of rooms or people.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best, the beautiful colors and a new name. The worst, my son is no longer with me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Doctors call it hallucinations. People who are more aware call it visions. Yes, people tell me that something special surely happened to me, because of the severity of the overdose and I did not die. A six day coma was long enough for me to learn, not to try to take my earthly life away from myself, it is not my decision to make.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Life is hard, but never, never give up. Call someone; run to get help if that is what it takes to stay here until your time is finished.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      No, good questions. Very good questions.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1joni_h_nde.html