{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jonathan_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Jonathan R NDE 3223","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jonathan R NDE 3223  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jonathan R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1195  Jonathan R NDE  3223  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

Going into the operating room I had an unusual amount of peace. I was joking with the staff and doctors. I had no fear at all. I remember counting backwards from ten, but don't remember what number I got to. It was several days later that I began to remember what happened during the operation. And only a few days ago I first shared it with my wife in fear of being considered a nut.

I remember standing about ten feet up and ten feet to the side of my body on the table. A person was standing next to me, but I didn't look at him/her. I had no fear, or questions to ask, I just observed.

Around the table were at least a dozen nurses and doctors. But what was so emotional was the presence of white people that I can only describe as angels. Each angel was guiding the hands of the staff that they were standing next to.

I heard no noise, no voices, and no music. It was peacefully quiet.

I don't remember details to specific, such as what tools were used, or the exact position of my body, but only because I was focused so much on the angels guiding the staff in everything they did, from walking, to the use of the tools within my chest cavity.

Even after the operation, I still had an unusual peace and no fear. The doctor said it was the best operation he had ever gone through, there were no problems at all, and he was impressed at my rate of recovery.

I was released from the hospital only fourteen days after having my chest opened, deflated lungs, and patched esophagus.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    July 16, 2003

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Surgery-related  'Perforated Esophagus since I was 13. Torn while choking on food, rushed to ER.'  Life threatening event, but not clinical death .  Perforated esophagus. Pre-existing hole torn by food lodged in the hole. Doctor found air, spit, and food sitting on my heart. Chest cavity should have been infected, but no infection was found. Doctor told me I had less than one percent chance of living through the operation (afterwards!!). And less than forty percent chance of living past one year.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      The whole time I had the experience, my level of consciousness was the same. I was only paying serious attention to the angels and their guiding.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I didn't begin to remember the event until a few days after the procedure. I do not know how long I was in the operating room.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    Besides the fact that I was standing in midair, not hovering, and there was no ceiling (at least none that I remember), everything was in color, and the primary light came from the operating room lights.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    There was no sound. Peaceful to me is no sound, it was peaceful.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     There was an angel standing next to me, but I did not make any attempt to communicate with them, or to look at them. I was concentrating on the angels guiding the operation.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Peace and lack of fear. Nor did I have any questions or comments to the angel next to me. I knew not to bother the angels.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I could tell that because the angels were guiding the doctors that I was not going to die and that everything was going to be okay.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes     I became bolder to approach people and tell them about Jesus.

What is your religion now?      Moderate   Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I became bolder to approach people and tell them about Jesus.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  I became more bold afterwards, but also more emotional.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Uncertain   It was peaceful, but makes me emotional. I get teared up when I think about it. Not in a bad way, but in a 'Thank God!' way.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The angels were the focal point, that meant a lot to me. It showed me that I am always being protected, and I am here for a reason.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    It was a few days after the fourth anniversary that I told my wife. No one else knows, but I am going to tell my pastor. Other than that, just you.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was probably real.     I thought, and still think, it could be a dream. But I also feel it could be real. I have no way of proving any of it was real, other than I lived through an operation I should have died in, and I had no infection where there should have been.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was probably real.     I feel the same way as stated above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I'm still not sure if what I experienced was real, but I know God had to have helped the doctors.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      The religious questions are vague, should simply ask what religious affiliation are you with.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jonathan_r_nde.html