{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jonathan_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Jonathan J NDE 7918","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jonathan J NDE 7918  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jonathan J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4102 Jonathan J NDE 7918  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had learned to ride a bicycle the previous year when I was 8 years old. In the spring they would put big piles of mulch out on the some parking spaces in our neighborhood. They were great fun to ride our bikes on and play on. There was a mulch pile at the bottom of the hill and I dared my friend to use it as a jump at full speed. He said, 'No.' I said, 'I'll do it.' He said, 'OK.' 

Off I went down the hill on my bike, fast and putting caution to the wind (so to speak). I hit the mulch pile and went much higher and farther than I thought I would. I remember looking down, feeling the height, and being surprised. Next thing I remember was the underside of my jaw hitting the pavement in very slow motion. Even though it was very slow, I knew there was nothing I could do to stop it. 

Next thing I remember was that I was in a very different place. I remember seeing a lot of unearthly yellow.  There were lots of Beings frantically flying about.  I heard loud singing or a loud chorus. I would not call it musical exactly. It was the sounds that these beings were making. It seemed as if they weren't focused on me but were very busy with something else of an urgent nature. It was bizarre and chaotic. 

I remember trying to think or telepathically communicate to them that I needed help 'getting up' so that I could return to my body. I felt as if I could not get up on my own and desperately needed help getting up. The desire to be raised back up to my body, was more an instinctive feeling than anything else. I didn't see my body, but knew I was not in the right place to regain consciousness.

I sat in this state, unable to move, for a little while before one of the beings came to my rescue and helped me up.  The feeling was of being raised up, not put 'into' my body.  She seemed female but did not communicate at all with me. She did know exactly what to do and how to raise me up. I didn't see her, but I felt her presence clearly. What I mostly remember seeing was a lot of yellow in the shapes of a Hubble telescope image of gaseous nebulae. Farther out, I did see a few of the Beings frantically moving about as points of light. They weren't moving in unison. 

They were moving in an effort to help a greater cause, probably not to help me but something related to their dimension or perhaps all or part of humanity. They were busy. They didn't have fear or ill will. Rather if felt as if they were helping something greater or beyond themselves. They were very focused with intent and urgency.

After being helped up, I quickly came back to consciousness.  I was back on the pavement, on my back and facing up. Between five and eight other kids were around me and looking down at me with concern. I quickly realized my mouth was in pain. I ran to a house with a 'helper mom' sign. She told me to go home and so I ran home with a couple other friends. My mother took me to the urgent care clinic.  A few days later a dentist capped my chipped front teeth, but afterwards the teeth died. It wasn't until 1997 when I had a root canal that the worse tooth was properly cleaned out. I had regular drainage of puss through my gums. The dentist told me that the tooth would have been much worse if I didn't have the drainage all those years. 

Right after the experience, I was confused more than anything else. It wasn't life changing, but more like a very confusing experience. I didn't think of it as wondrous, but as confusing, bizarre, and even shocking. I didn't know what to think about it as a nine year old. It was well outside my experience or vocabulary.  I didn't mention it because it was a confusing and a relatively short experience. 'What was that?!?!' was my thought to myself if recalled it from memory, which wasn't too often.  So for most of my life thus far, I haven't thought much of it. I didn't give it significance. After watching NDE videos I've recently realized that it is similar.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Spring 1979

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident.     Direct head injury.    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening.   I could have been hurt badly, yes. Any head injury can be fatal.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Felt the same through the whole thing.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Very strong yellow color and I saw Beings frantically flying around.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Strange vocal singing sound but it didn't seem organized, but it conveyed a sense of urgency. The sound was not talking, but more like a disorganized chorus.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Strong and bright yellow color of unearthly realm.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I remember seeing a lot of unearthly yellow and there were many Beings frantically flying about.  There was loud singing or a loud chorus. I would not call it musical exactly. These Beings were making the sounds. It seemed as if they weren't focused on me but were very busy with something else of an urgent nature. It was bizarre and chaotic.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Confusion; desperation; helplessness; frantic; urgency; helpfulness; joy

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   Was not active or going to church at the time. Had gone to church for a few years around the age of five.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant   Consider myself spiritual but I do not go to church or participate in religious activities.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I had heard of angels and other heavenly beings and realms but the potency and bizarre nature and immediate transition to it was not what I was expecting.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     Not sure, I was nine years old with minimal introspective skills.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   A being helped raise me back to my body.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   I'm not certain if the Beings I saw had previously lived on Earth. Maybe.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No     God definitely exists

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Uncertain     It seemed very much as if these beings were in some way involved in helping humanity. It seemed as if our existence is connected or mutually relevant or maybe that they just do it out of love.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       A lot has happened in the subsequent 36 years. In 2004, I had a spiritually transformative experience with God. In 2005, I had a mystical and transformative OBE about hell.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Very strange visuals and sounds as well as other beings. Very bizarre and chaotic experience for a nine year old.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.    I've remembered much of the experience but not every single detail. With some work with an expert hypnotist, I could probably remember a lot more.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I'm very intuitive but I'm not sure if that relates to the experience.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        For so many years, I've pushed the experience to the back of my mind.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Only just recently, I shared it with my longtime girlfriend. Maybe I shared it with my mother but not in a significant way and she is not a good listener with empathy.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real      I was confused and even a little scared about it. It was potent but bizarre and a short-lived experience. It didn't relate to my day-to-day living. I didn't know what to make of it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     I don't expect to go back there again. It seems so far and away, but part of me realizes it could be just a few seconds away if I die or something.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   I've had different spiritual experiences but nothing similar to that.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It seems as if we can enter their realm without them immediately knowing that our focus is in their realm. Perhaps we can surprise them or catch them off guard. They didn't seem to have foreknowledge of my arrival. It wasn't my time to die, so they didn't seem to be expecting me to be aware of them in their realm.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       The web page forms for this questionnaire seem like broken HTML on my web browser. I had to re-enter half the form because the language selector dropped far down the page at the least expected moment, changed my language, and lost all my previous entries.  Changing languages should not reset the form.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jonathan_j_nde.html