{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jonathan_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Jonathan H NDE 3120","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jonathan H NDE 3120  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jonathan H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1118  Jonathan H NDE  3120  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

The operating room staff were rushing around me on the table while I watched from a corner of the ceiling above them on the other side of the room. I felt remarkably calm and just interested in the technical aspects of what they were doing. Interesting, and wondering why they were making such a fuss really. Then a bright white light grew brighter above me to the left, like a distant torch approaching and getting brighter. But it was square, not round. Drawn like iron filings to a weak magnet I seemed to move towards it, float is to imprecise an adjective, and realized that the light was coming from a square corridor that I was entering. No panic or fear, just curious. It wasn't cold either, no reason why it should be, but it was a neutral temperature. Moving up the slight gradient as if walking. Annoying silence all around, but a calm atmosphere.

A voice, not one that I have ever recognized, but definitely male, then said 'It's not time yet, you can go back now.' I have been asking 'why?' and 'what for?' ever since!

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    1/10/93

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Suicide attempt    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) .  I was clinically dead on the operating table, twice as I recall.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Interesting to answer this. The best comparison that I can think of is that when serving in Northern Ireland, the 'Alert and response' levels were on overtime, but the threat level was massive. This was the same but without any threat level.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   All surreal. See above.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    Felt the same, but the light was all encompassing until I was in the tunnel.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    No sound until the voice, and that was normal conversational pitch.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     See above.

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   See above.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Calm, Curious, Interested, Fascinated.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   None

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      No     Still think that it is an irrelevance, and that religion is a way to keep the masses under control.

What is your religion now?      Liberal   None

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No     Still think that it is an irrelevance, and that religion is a way to keep the masses under control.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Not being told why I was sent back!!! Frustrating me ever since.

This all seemed reasonably normal to me, but the few people that know think that it is incredible.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  It made me much harder than I was emotionally, if that was possible. That is only recently starting to diminish and allow me to join the real world. Less tolerant. Impatient. Even more frustrating and not very forgiving of mistakes. Not good really.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No   Amazingly interesting watching myself be resuscitated.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I have talked to my dead grandfather, and often see dead people that I don't know. They seem happy and preoccupied. I watched a Cavalier in full garb drinking in front of a fireplace for what seemed like ages. Their location often does not appear to relate to mine. Not in this time zone any way.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       A peace that I have never had before, or experienced since. Life has always troubled me, and it and I have always had to come to a tolerant arrangement.

Couldn't understand why they were working so hard to save me that seemed a waste of their professional time.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    It doesn't bother me, but it disturbs others so I keep it to myself now.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     Because it was.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     See above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   Not been dead since then!

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jonathan_h_nde.html