{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jonathan_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Jonathan G NDE 4333","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jonathan G NDE 4333  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jonathan G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2146 Jonathan G NDE 4333  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					This occurred during the middle of the month of May. I had gone to the emergency room at the Veterans Hospital on a Thursday afternoon with a chest pain that wouldn't go away. The next day they conducted a stress test, which I was unable to complete so it was chemically induced to speed up my heart for the test. The next morning, which was on a Saturday the Cardiologist stopped by my room, and did the usual stethoscope thing.  He listening to my heart and told me that I was scheduled for an angioplasty/stent on Monday. A very blah breakfast was delivered when he was leaving and I started to eat a waffle when the chest pain began to get very intense. I kept pushing the wrong nurses call button and after a while when no one came I walked out to the nurses station which was close to my room concerning my situation. They of course said get back in your bed and all kinds of technicians, nurses and the doctor were there within moments.

That's when for what I believe was a very brief moment I had a strange/unusual experience. All of those people attending me suddenly vanished and my mother was sitting on the left side of the bed beside me with my father standing by her. I didn't realize who they were at first because they were both very young late teens or early twenties. There were other people behind them.  I couldn't focus on them because of a bright light coming from something like a worm hole/cornucopia/horn of plenty shaped object behind them. There were figures of people rushing out of it toward me but I couldn't tell who they were due to the extreme brightness of the light coming from that object. I then became distracted by figures to my right which were all my former pets (dogs and cats that had died) climbing over each other to get to me, they gave me the impression of me just getting home from a long trip as they seemed very excited to see me.

I had time to glance back at my mom and then everything disappeared and all the hospital personnel were there treating me. I was rushed to the emergency room at a nearby cardiac facility where they told me the artery between my heart and lungs was almost completely blocked and a stent was put in with another stent done that Monday.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  May 2007

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Heart attack.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I felt that I was fully conscious the whole time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I felt that I was fully conscious the whole time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Described in main narrative.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Described in main narrative.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     No! But I saw people coming/rushing out of a tunnel like object that was emanated a very bright light.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     See main narrative, but should say that both my parents are deceased and there was no communication. My mother's features showed concern for me.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No   I saw people coming/rushing out of a tunnel like object that was emanated a very bright light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       The whole experience was unexpected.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Was raised Presbyterian with some Episcopal influence due to parents being of different faiths.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I do seem to pray more often.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I would prefer to keep this one private.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I am not a very religious person. I have always felt that most religions were self-serving/created to augment their position kind of like a business. Feel that the Bible is more of a historical record and that much of it was censored to enhance the church's position. I do believe that we have a soul and a little bit of God is in all living things.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    About a month later. It was greeted with skepticism.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   A family friend once spoke of floating when she had a NDE.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The experience surprised me. I was not expecting it. I do find it comforting, although I have never had a fear of dying.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Same as above!

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Shorten it.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jonathan_g_nde.html