{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jon_nde.html","mytitle":"Jon NDE 94","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jon NDE 94  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Jon NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						502  Jon NDE  94  					  				  			      		  		  		  		  		  		      			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 Compared to others, I had a bad childhood. I was often truant from school and got into a lot of fights. One of these fights took place at a bowling alley in the video game room. I had, with two friends, instigated a little trouble with this one particular kid and, well, he and his “gang” came a' calling. It didn't go well for us: seven against three. When the gang showed up, I was terrified. I ended up having the side of my head smashed into a brick wall and that's when it happened.


At first, all was black, but then I found myself looking down upon the whole scene. The first thing I noticed was that I was somehow seeing the events before me, from within the top of the walls of this video-game room. I saw a larger and older boy pulling the guy who had been kicking me in the side of the head off of me. Then I noticed two younger kids, a boy and a girl, run up to the game-room window, under me, and look in. All the while, I heard nothing. The terror I felt before everything went black was gone. I felt, well, I want to say relaxed, but I think the better way to describe it is "neutral", like observing without feeling. As I observed, the skeletal features of my face were not present. Let me explain: when you look at the world, your whole life, you have obstructions that limit your view. Since you have always had these obstructions, you don't really notice them till they’re gone: eyebrows, nose, eyelashes, cheekbones and so on.


That experience, I believe, is one of the oddest parts about the entire event. Behind me (in the wall itself or the ceiling) was blackness. I could see adults from the billiard-room next door rushing towards the game-room. Then all went black again. Next, I remember going in and out of consciousness on the way to the hospital.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    April 1980

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes       Life threatening event, but not clinical death It was a street-fight in a bowling alley game-room. My head was being smashed between a steel-toed boot and a brick wall. I think it qualifies as life-threatening.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  See above narrative.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Totally alert!

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I was 13 years old at the time - something was certainly different, but whether or not it had to do with time or space, I just don't know.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    If there were sounds, then they were muffled and were almost inaudible.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No     

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No     

The experience included:      Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?      No   

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No     

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      No emotions. Total neutrality.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No     

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No     

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No   

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   

What is your religion now?      Liberal   

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Since then, I have not been afraid to die.

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No   

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No     

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best: I wasn't scared anymore. The worst: the blackness surrounding me (thinking about it, after the fact) was an uncomfortable thought. I think now that it was most likely because I was looking through the wall and perhaps there was just nothing to see in the stone behind me. Still an odd feeling though.

  Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      No
  
Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jon_nde.html