{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jon_l_nde.html","mytitle":"Jon L NDE 4759","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jon L NDE 4759  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jon L NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2413 Jon L NDE 4759  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					After experiencing a 'non-survivable' heart attack, I passed out while being loaded into a helicopter for transport to a hospital. While not conscious, I remember lying in a hospital bed that seemed to be sitting at the beginning of chrome rails starting at the foot of my bed extending into infinity. The ceiling was navy blue with multiple white crosses. I was lying in bed at approximately a forty-five degree angle. Once, I looked up at the ceiling and the crosses were twisting. I felt I needed to make my bed move down the chrome rails. I was very happy. I felt completely like the only thing that mattered was myself. I felt completely absorbed within myself and absolutely nothing was important at all - not money, not sports cars, not even my mother whom I had always cherished my entire life. I felt it was ultimately ridiculous to think anything on Earth or anything that was material was in any way important at all. It is not.

Next, I saw that I was standing beside my bed and looking at myself lying there. I was several feet away. Then, I heard a nurse screaming repeatedly, 'Hey! I'm not getting a breath here!' She keep yelling loudly and repeating the statement. Even though I seemed to know it was going to hurt, I decided just to take one breath just to get her to be quiet. When I did, I immediately returned to life experiencing a lot of pain and being angry with the nurse for making me come back to pain and earthly problems and experiences. There should be absolutely no fear of death. I was feeling wonderful and very resentful that I had to wake up.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  September 1998

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       It seemed I was fully conscious at all times. I don't understand how I could see myself in the bed sitting up and conscious also. There seemed to be two of me.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Chrome rails started at the foot of my hospital bed and extended into infinity.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was very happy and confident, curious, observant.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Nothing material or anything on Earth matters at all. Not at all. I felt this way for a long time. I felt we were all silly for even thinking so.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain Not sure how they would change. One quickly falls back in to normal everyday living.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I was absolutely happy, completely absorbed within myself, and resented return very much.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Several months. Their reaction was belief and interest, and asked more details. I told them death was not to be feared at all. They seemed to believe me and agreed.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had heard of people going through tunnels and seeing a loving light at the end of it. I didn't see any tunnel nor light.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I will never forget how surprised I was that nothing was important at all - except oneself. One definitely dies alone, but that seems the way it is supposed to be. Death is welcome and not unpleasant. Not to be feared. I think our normal fear of death is a disservice to ourselves. But, of course, it has to be that way.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know it was real. I didn't want to come back.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It was surprising to me to be so resentful about returning to life. I've always had a good time.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jon_l_nde.html