{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jon_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Jon J NDE 5212","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jon J NDE 5212  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jon J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2722 Jon J NDE 5212  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was standing in my friends' doorway, helping them to move a bed. I remember zoning out while my friends decided how to move the bed; I lost feeling to my body, and still stood holding the doorframe. The idea of astral projection was racing through my mind; I had been getting more and more spiritual before the event unfolded, months before. The thoughts were filling my mind to the point where, I unconsciously stopped breathing (didn't notice until after the event).

My friend's ceiling light filled half of his room before I noticed anything strange, then while looking at it, it grew brighter than any light I've ever seen. The light engulfed my mind, and my body fell, hitting the back of my head on a hard wood floor, which caused me to curl around the doorframe and have a seizure. I could feel my body twitching, hear my friends yelling, and see what was going on, but I was looking from above my body. 

Then within seconds, I was in a vast field, more beautiful than anything I've ever seen.  There were flowers and grass abundant. I was standing on a small incline that dropped slightly until the field was flat. People made of crystalline light were in the field talking and loitering without a care, the field faded into forest about two hundred feet away. In the sky were moons of red, blue, green, orange, and the stars shone brighter and more gorgeous then any I've seen, it was either dusk, or night time but light enough to see perfectly. After seeing all that, the only thing I could say was 'I'm finally home', when an older man, who radiated wisdom and caring, power and finesse, took my right hand in his, and said, 'You have yet to finish your work, my son,' and with a smile I was rushed back into my body. 

I stood up quickly, telling my friends 'I'm okay, I'm okay.' I no longer stood up, then I blacked out again and fell, my friend caught me, but I remember reaching my hand through a void, wishing and wanting with my entire soul that man would reach my hand again and pull me back to where I felt I belonged.

Then I woke up, and I stayed awake, but never a day has gone by that I don't remember that place, but my work isn't done he said, and so I stay, looking forward to the day I can go back.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  02/07/2011

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Direct head injury  'stopped breathing and passed out standing up, hit head and started convulsing.'  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Hit my head from standing height, onto a hardwood floor. Due to that, seizure occurred.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   The beginning.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The beginning.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time stood still; it doesn't exist in the planes I went to.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was more detailed, the colors were brighter, even the dark colors seemed to shine. I wasn't just looking at the beings I saw, I was looking into them, their souls, morals, ambitions and sadness, all of what they learned in past lives.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was all around normal, except that when I was spoken to, the sound seemed to resonate through my soul, from inside without ever needing to hear it. It was everywhere, but coming from nowhere.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     When the light expanded throughout my entire vision, I kind of rose up through a black tunnel within an instant, and was sent into the field I saw, same with coming back, like I was being pulled and pushed by the great spirit back, as to finish what I started.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     A bunch of crystalline light so bright that it must have been supernatural, almost like it was giving shape to the souls he harbors, waiting to be sent to new bodies.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light filled not only my vision, but my entire being before I left.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     it seemed to me, the ninth and final dimension, and the location of my past lifes homeworld, a very odd and thourough experience.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Perfect peace, relief of leaving reality (a personal hell), unconditional love for everything, without it ever being pin-pointed on one thing at any time, felt like I was finally where I wanted to be since being reborn into this body. When I saw the 'great spirit' I've come to call him, I felt overwhelmed by purpose, a disappointment that I had come back before finishing my work, against my word to him, a huge amount of power almost radiated from him, and I felt like nothing but that moment mattered. I had a simple urge to fulfill my promise.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I saw where the world was going, and it's not going where he wants it.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   'resurrection, great spirit rules all souls.'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   'resurrection, great spirit rules all souls.'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I found the information from a multitude of past lives flowed freely into my brain, even after the event happened it feels like the knowledge stayed with me.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes My relationship with humanity in general has changed; it will likely never be the same.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Synesthesia when I close my eyes, I can see music and words while I hear it. Others have occurred on and off.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The entire thing was significant to me. It's proven to me my beliefs, and shown why I was put on the earth, which is the same goal I've had since the age of seven years old.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I can just tell, nothing was wrong with me that I know of, and for some reason I was just sent to such a place? It could be nothing but real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Same as the above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Smoking weed after the event (daily smoker of five years), has made me feel energy, a radiating apparatus that I can't explain without speaking of it.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The sheer picking up of energies is profound, nothing has the same experience it once had, and it has even more purpose.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jon_j_nde.html