{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1joke_p_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Joke P Probable NDE 4532","mylang":"de"}
          	        Joke P Probable NDE 4532  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Joke P Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2200 Joke P Probable NDE 4532  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Suddenly there is an explosion in my head, a large, overwhelming sea of light. It is so intensely bright that my eyes close, but it doesn't help. The bright light comes through my eyelids and becomes a much brighter ball. It shoots upwards in an ever-smaller ray of light that stays there on the horizon. It leaves a large circle of light where my body is. I am sucked into this bright ray of light, and I leave everything, including my body, behind. I don't know where I am. I do know that my body is lying on the ground, and that the back of my head is up to my ears in concrete. It's like the concrete is quicksand, or maybe the back of my head is - I don't know. There is an enormous pressure in the back of my head right up to somewhere behind my nose. It feels like I have developed a cold. There are voices around me. They call my name all the time. It annoys me, and I want them to leave me alone. I want silence around me. Repeatedly they call my name. I don't want it. I want peace. I want out. While I have these thoughts, I'm being sucked in further. Slowly I float upwards into the beam of light, which is getting narrower and brighter. My eyes and body are drawn towards it, and I let myself go completely. I'm moving in an infinite oasis of peace and safety. I'm floating slowly through a space of intense peacefulness, in a soft color of grey/green. It embraces me. I'm part of it. I'm one with it. The voices are fading. I hear them in the background, but they don't reach me. About halfway I reach other surroundings, where the soft grey/green color becomes bright, light grey. It's more beautiful than where I was before. At this point, I stop. I see an almost invisible boundary between the spot where I am and where the beautiful, bright light begins. I'm at the end and at the beginning. The doorway looks inviting. With a start, I realize that it's up to me now. But is it? I'm already here. My whole being is soaked with it, absorbed by it, and the door gives access to an even more beautiful being. An unprecedented feeling of peace and quiet descends upon me. There is a feeling of freedom, an overwhelming feeling of longing for the light, the peace and quiet, and the beautiful. Without any doubt, I want to be there! It draws and draws, and it feels unprecedentedly good. I am home. I have no doubts, or fear and no resistance whatsoever. 'Mamma, mamma, I'm here with you.' It is a soft voice. I feel something touching my hand. Soft fingers pick it up and hold it tenderly, and soft, cool fingers caress the upper side of my hand lovingly. 'Mamma, I'm here with you.' A sweet voice keeps repeating that sentence, and the soft fingers keep caressing my hand. In despair and reluctantly, I feel that I am being pulled downwards, away from the light, towards the voice that keeps talking to me, towards the hands holding my hand and caressing it. I realize much later, that the voice and the hands belong to my daughter. I talk to her from a distance, but she can't hear me of course. I tell her that I don't want this, that I am so very tired and want to go to the light. I tell her that I'm home and want to stay there, and that she has to let go and let me go. She stops calling and caressing, and like an arrow I shoot upwards, not floating like the first time. I shoot to the light, that light-grey spot, and I stop there. The door is still open, but I seem to be hesitating, although the same longing overwhelms me even more intensely. 'Mamma, mamma! I'm here with you, Mamma!' the same voice calls. Again, that caressing hand on my hand. I fall down again and feel the resistance that goes with that. I can't and I won't! I start to panic. All of a sudden, there is another voice, a voice that is angry, snarling and irritated, or is it worried? It doesn't sound like that, not really - or does it? 'Keep your hands off your mother! Leave her alone! Stay away from her!' At that moment, I detect no understanding towards my daughter in that voice. After a while, I realize it's my husband's voice, and I feel an angry indignation. I hear my daughter go on at my husband about her fear, about what she is trying to do. But she has to go. She lets go of me, and I hear her crying and shouting that she's going to call 911. From a distance, I tell her, 'Well done, sweetie. Very good.' But again she can't hear me. I want to go after her. I feel her panic, her pain for being sent away and her fear, because she doesn't know what's wrong. With a crying heart, I have to let her go. I can't react. As soon as I don't feel her hands or hear her voice any more, I shoot upwards again away from where I was. But I don't get far this time. The door seems to retreat as I try to get closer, further and further away.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  20 December 2006

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident.  Direct head injury    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   At the time of my experience it wasn't clear whether the situation was life threatening. An ambulance took me to the hospital, and after various photos and scans the doctors found that my life was not in danger.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While I have these thoughts, I'm being sucked in further. Slowly I float upwards into the beam of light, which is getting narrower and brighter. My eyes and body are drawn towards it, and I let myself go completely. I'm moving in an infinite oasis of peace and safety. I'm floating slowly through a space of intense peacefulness, in a soft color of grey/green. It embraces me. I'm part of it. I'm one with it.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no time here.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm.     All was one

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       An unprecedented feeling of peace and quiet descends upon me. There is a feeling of freedom, an overwhelming feeling of longing for the light, the peace and quiet, and the beautiful. I am home. I have no doubts, or fear and no resistance whatsoever.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I got the feeling that everything was right, that all the pieces of the puzzle fitted, and that I was ready to go. The door was open.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I divorced my husband, partly because of my experience.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I couldn't believe what I had experienced, although I knew right away that it was an NDE. I felt an incredible fear that it would go away if I ever talked about it. I felt pain, longing and shame because I wanted so much to stay there, a thousand times more than having to come back.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The next morning I wanted to share the experience with my husband, but his reaction was touchy and irritated. I talked to my daughter about it because she was there, although how long after the experience I can't remember. I also told my best friend. I can't remember her first reaction, but it felt good to tell her, although I found it difficult.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I know that because I was at that door three times in a row. I felt it in every fiber and every pore of my being.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The more I read about it, because I wanted to know, the more I become convinced that my experience was real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I have tried to put it in words, although it is almost impossible. It is difficult to be back in my body and my life, even though the experience is an enrichment. Dying isn't all that bad. After your life, you can rest in infinite peace and happiness.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1joke_p_probable_nde.html