{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1vik_nde.html","mytitle":"Johnny S NDE 9560","mylang":"de"}
          	        Johnny S NDE 9560  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Johnny S NDO  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5154 Johnny S NDE 9560  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I am traveling through a tunnel of light consisting of billions of stars. I arrive at a meadow, a place I call my 'my Paradise'. The meadow and this place had colors that do not exists here on Earth.  It is unimaginably beautiful. l was amused to discover that there were dandelions, that we call the 'devil's dandelions in Danish.  I then see a river where  the sun shines and reflects off the water, making the river appear to  sparkle like silver. I see about seven figures  of different height. In the distance, I see a pyramid.   I am attracted to the pyramid. I go up the stairs, counting 100 steps.  At the top  is a dark room. There is light from the torches on the walls, and to my left there is a stone alter. On the alter there is a giant sword. Just then, I see the most beautiful Goddess sitting on a throne.  On her right sits an owl. The owl's radiantly, shining eyes stare at me. Then the Goddess says that the sword on the alter is a gift for me. She told me that the  sword is not sharp and it is not for fighting. Rather the sword  can be used to find solutions. For instance,  it can solve the largest and most difficult problems. I remember clearly that I told her that I was only 18 years old and I could  not lift that sword. The Goddess said that I would always be welcome to return and  take it when I was ready.         I said goodbye and in the same instant, I am at the riverbank where the figures still are. I wave goodbye to them and travel once more through the starry universe.

     I wake up hearing a voice saying that 'he is back again.' The ambulance rescuers  arrived. That night I hear three times a voice saying, 'he is back, under the train, in the ambulance, on the operating table.' Despite  I had the near death experience only once.  
    
  The next day I woke up in the hospital as a cripple. Five days after the accident, I was signed out from the hospital. Ten days after the accident I was back playing soccer, badminton and volleyball. 
  
  I was grateful to be alive. 

  Every morning I have been waking up with the picture of the near death experience inside my brain, but 30 years had to pass before I told others about the experience.

     

   

  Johnny's Website:   www.johnnysort.dk  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 13.11.1981  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident.         Life threatening event, but not clinical death. Accident  I was 18 years old, had to take a train. I ran up to the platform where it was slippery. I slid down the ramp and fell down on the rails. I am knocked unconscious.
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    

  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   This moment was extremely intense and indescribably beautiful  
  
At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All the way through  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

  Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     Time did not exist.  
  
Were your senses More vivid than usual?       No  

  Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It is difficult to describe.
  
  Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It is difficult to describe.
  
Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

  Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     light tunnel consisted of billions of stars  
  
Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them  

  Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain.     Met 7  figures.  
  
Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Colors consisted of colors that are not found on Earth.  

  Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm.     Paradise  
  
What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Freedom, no pain at all.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant     

  Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I did not have any deep or special religious belief. I am baptized  and confirmed but did not go to church.  
  
Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have fetched the sword and I am using the sword to help others.  

  Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify.   I met seven figures, the Goddess and the owl.  
  
Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I met the beautiful Goddess.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   vulnerability and strength.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     The sword on the alter was to be used to help others.  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     Paradise is probably the transition between life and death  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     I could fetch the sword when I was ready.  

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     I should use the sword to solve knots, help others.  

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I help others who are struggling in life.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Difficult to describe something deep in the heart. Beautiful emotion.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

  How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  This was intensely present. I was lying stuck under the wheel of the train, could not get free, was on my own until the ambulance came  
  
Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     It is beautiful and  reassuring to know the other side.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        absolutely all the time.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    after 30 years  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     I experienced it so clearly that I was aware that it was my salvation, when I should have been dead. Today I am married. I have 4 children and 6 grandchildren.  
  
  What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     I take pictures of sunrises every morning. That is the closest I got to Paradise.  
  
At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Was about to be caught  in a fire 2 years after the accident. An angel wakes me up in a dream at night, there is a fire in the house. I and two other youths saved ourselves out. Lost everything I owned. In 2019 I had a cardiac arrest, and I saved myself by driving to a private hospital  

     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1vik_nde.html