{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1johnathon_nde.html","mytitle":"Johnathon NDE 2535","mylang":"de"}
          	        Johnathon NDE 2535  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Johnathon NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						808  Johnathon NDE  2535  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  				  

I was a serving soldier in the Third Battalion of the parachute regiment. My regiment was on a military exercises for two weeks in an area known as Salisbury Plain, my job entailed driving a land rover. What happened is an exact recollection of events, which I experienced, and only very close friends know about this. Approximately 2:30 a.m. I was driving from Warminster with a land rover full of rations, spare wheels the usual junk a land rover carries. I was very tired only having a couple of hours sleep when I remember the land rover steering wheel begin to vibrate. Due to exhaustion and needing my bed, I guessed I had about one hour to get to my location so I continued driving. A few moments later, the Landover immediately took a sharp left turn throwing me to the right with my head hitting of the door. My hands came off the steering wheel and when I tried to brake I felt the vehicle roll over to the left sharply, what accounts I have during the roll was total fear screaming for my mum (yes, my mum strangely).

I remember been thrown about in the driver's compartment, grass coming through the window, darkness, pain all over my chest and shear hell was what I experienced before blacking out. When I awoke, I felt the wind in my face, which was nice. Once I began to focus I saw bright lights, heard people shouting, the wind on my face was coming off the rotors of a rescue helicopter I presumed. The top of the land rover was gone, cut away by firemen and the lights were torches. I remember a woman speaking to me holding my left hand saying we will get you out. I recall crying but felt no pain then I felt myself begin to drift which I thought was off to sleep.

I then felt myself slipping out of my body heading to the right hand side. When I stopped floating, I was about twenty feet away standing up watching everything happen in front of me. I felt no pain but totally confused then sheer terror came over me, as I knew then that I died. I didn't want to die I was still too young. All these thoughts came over me; also there was no tunnels of light, no bright lights, angels singing which is usually perceived. But what happened then was I felt a warmth come over me, kind of like hot air all over my body and then I felt myself begin fade away, a bit like mist or steam from a kettle. Then I awoke in the same place where the accident had happened but this place was totally peaceful, everything was clearer, brighter and I felt total at peace within myself.

I knew I was in the same place but not - if you know what I mean. I then began to walk about which felt like five minutes, there were no buildings, and nothing relating to any sort of civilization was evident. I sat down trying to gather my thoughts when I saw my dog Bruce walking over to me. Yes, my old dog who died when I was young. Don't know how I knew it was him but I just felt in my heart that it was him, the way he used to look. He came over to me and we cuddled for about a minute when this figure appeared a few feet in front of me. I didn't recognize him (yes, it was a him), he came over and sat down next to me petting Bruce. He was wearing a suit but from maybe the early 1900's era, about forty years old in appearance, black hair but I never felt any fear, or suspicion around him. However, my intuition said he is related to me in some form. His voice was so soothing; he said to me, 'John are you happy?' Just, am I happy? 'Yes,' was the reply. Then he got up and went for a walk, don't know why. I felt like I needed to follow him. I could feel the grass, smell the air and feel the cool wind again my face. Even here birds sing, the sun was as bright as any a day I could recall, the grass was far greener, just everything was more visible and everything felt alive, like I could feel everything's energy pulsating against my own which felt totally wonderful.

I remember walking with him stroking Bruce as we strolled about. He said he is taking me to a special place were someone is waiting for me. He spoke in length about life, stressing the importance of goodwill to all creatures. He also explained that there is more life in the universe than one can hope to understand and where we are going is a meeting place. About maybe a few moments I could see other people walking about, some were kissing, cuddling, people were laughing being happy and I could actually feel their happiness inside my belly, yes my belly. It felt so right, so strong and I knew everyone could feel my love, sort of like everybody sharing their experiences with everyone around.

We stopped beside a large oak tree. Under the oak tree there was this woman sitting down looking at me. She was dressed like the days of the Roman Empire, long flowing white robe but of sheer beauty. Long red curly hair down to her knees. Bruce ran over to her and I followed. There were no introductions, but I felt like I knew her already. She informed me that I needed to go back as my time is not up. I remember sighing and looking at the ground in sadness. Then I remember her waving at me and I also recall myself screaming for Bruce to come with me, I remember crying that I want to stay - when suddenly, like a dream, I woke up inside a helicopter with this huge needle in my chest.

I know what you have read might sound unbelievable but I truly believe in what I experienced. I know now in my heart and soul that there is life after death and I believe everyone experiences this differently from everyone else. I did recover from my injuries and later on was informed by the doctors that I was clinically dead for over one minute. I now look at life from a different view than what I used to. Life is so precious so try to be the best thing you can ever be. I know now that there was no angels, harps or cities in the skies but something even bigger, better awaiting us, and I know what my experiences were only scratching the surfaces to what happens to all of when we die.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 14 July 1994  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I died for about one minute.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I felt my senses were more in tune to all around me; I could feel total love and happiness which cannot be said in words.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       From the start to the end.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   I felt like I was in the other realm for maybe half an hour but my friends, who witnessed the incident, said as soon as I drifted off they got me out within seconds and the helicopter trip was only ten minutes long to the hospital, whereas I woke up in the helicopter.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was far clearer, because I could also feel everything as well as visually see.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My dog, and two people whom I recall knowing but from where I don't know.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The same place the accident happened but far more real and a million times more beautifull.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Just calmness would be the appropriate word, like acceptance.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Church of Scotland but was never a practicing Protestant  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Protestant faith follows God, Jesus etc. I felt like I was my own god, my own creator, everything in life is equal to each other, so there is no supreme being watching over us just something bigger and better which I feel we are all part off.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Agnostic ( Faith changed due to the experience)  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Protestant faith follows God, Jesus etc. I felt like I was my own god, my own creator, everything in life is equal to each other, so there is no supreme being watching over us just something bigger and better which I feel we are all part off.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The longer I was there the more I began to understand the purpose of life, but as soon as I returned all that info has vanished. I feel like living creatures are forbidden to know this knowledge due to maybe our warlike trait.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   I remember it now as vivid as when the accident happened.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Just more aware of there is more to life and a lot more to death.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Total love, happiness and a feeling of being totally wanted and admired, and to feel that feeling with everything around you.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Got counseling after the accident who said, my experiences are beautiful and should be shared with all. But the doctors said it was my brain switching off to hide me from the pain. And two friends no one else.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I think of it every night up to the present day.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I can still see the grass, clouds, sun and I also feel the edge of my fingers tingle every time I stroked my dog Bruce.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       People I believe now go to the earth realm to heighten their spirit awareness, bring this back to the other realms and share these experience with others.  What I experienced has changed my whole outlook in life, I feel peoples' pain more, I'm also more in tune with peoples' feelings.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1johnathon_nde.html