{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1john_w_nde.html","mytitle":"John W NDE3650","mylang":"de"}
          	        John W NDE3650  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					John W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1652 John W NDE 3650  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was alone in a large space - bright white light and warm and comfortable. I was very tired and ready to sleep. Sleep was a great temptation. I saw myself there wrapped in bedclothes but not necessarily in a bed. I somehow understood that to go to sleep was to NOT wake up and the decision was mine. My next recollection is of being in my bed in an emergency room of the hospital and seeing the door open. My wife appeared looking around the door and she looked so worried that I wanted to do something to cheer her up. I raised my right hand, which had previously been immobile and gave her the two finger V sign. At that point I knew I was going to be alright.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  3/08/1974

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Direct head injury  accident resulting in bilateral pneumothorax  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was in the hospital in serious condition after an accident.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Watching the door open.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Watching the door open.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Complete peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Christmas and Easter Episcopalian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have gone back to my church and become quite involved. I had drifted away before and had been somewhat agnostic.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Episcopal church Active and involved church member

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have gone back to my church and become quite involved. I had drifted away before and had been somewhat agnostic.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew that the decision to sleep (death?) Or stay awake and perhaps suffer more was mine to make.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes My wife at that time and I have divorced. She has gone on to a new relationship (as have I) and I am happy for her. I am much more content with myself than I ever was before the 'incident'.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I did not possess the vocabulary or knowledge to express what I felt at the time. I have tried to relate my feelings since many times and have difficulty still with the emotions that arise in the telling.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     My life was less stressful and I was much more at ease with myself and others.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The DECISION part was most meaningful. Some ability was given to me to understand that it was in my hands to make the decision to go on.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    A few weeks after being rehabilitated I tried to talk to my oldest son about my experiences. I don't know his reaction. He did quietly listen. I do not know at this time how he may have been influenced. He is currently in the hospital himself with a serious illness and may have his own experiences. I have since talked to an Episcopal Priest and a clinical psychologist about my experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It is a clear memory and has not diminished over the years. It removed fears from my life (death, failure, non-acceptance, etc.) and I feel has made me a better person.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Same as above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       You might ask how the person came to be in this position.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1john_w_nde.html