{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1john_s_nde_3876.html","mytitle":"John S NDE 3876","mylang":"de"}
          	        John S NDE 3876  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					John S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1839 John S NDE 3876  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I 'died' and all of a sudden I floated, in a diagonal, over the three teenage guys that attacked me (and their German shepherd dog), about a couple of meters above their heads. Everything became immobilized, like a dead calm, in the course of the events, time and space stopped. I could move myself anyway, completely free, free from the body's usual inertia and limits.

I looked down at my body - as if it was not mine - and I felt absolutely no sorrow, no regret for it, no pain, or anything else. I just realized that my body was there lying down on the grass. Nothing more, and nothing less. It may seem strange now, but at that moment, everything appeared to be self-evident.

At the same time that the world stood there under me, in its 'frozen' state, I found myself encircled by an absolute warmness, in a state of satisfaction and light heartedness. I still continued to 'float ' (i.e. as if I was 'hung 'up there in the air). I turned around.  My real self, my consciousness (my whole self was like a soul consciousness - no body, no extension, no beginning and no end in that awareness that was me) and I saw straight ahead, a bit upwards (I remember I glanced up), an indescribable 'light', like an opening to another dimension, to a completely different world, and, there was a face.

I will never forget that face! It was so full of a welcoming, a non-demanding, warm smile of love. In that face (as in the whole experience) there was nothing else than a complete pure and total love.  There was unlimited comprehension, kindness, and real affectionate, sympathetic and warm humor. I cry now as I remember that (though I didn't believe I would, after all these years!).

There was a silent direct communication, which I am not able to 'translate' into written or spoken words, neither especially into an image. I just felt, from that wonderful face, that I was both welcome and expected.  It was exactly as if I had seen that face before, and much more. As if, everything was so well known, so familiar and so self-evident. Nearly as if I had been away in a long, long journey in a foreign country, and after a time I finally had come back again! I was home where everything was so familiar and safe. I felt the exuberant joy of returning home, of being able to come back.

Suddenly to my right, a bit further away from the face, a 'door' opened (or rather an entrance, an opening without a door).  It came closer to me, i.e. the entrance became bigger and bigger (or it was me to approximate the opening) difficult to know because I didn't need to make any movement of any type either to float, fly, swim, go, etc. I just wanted to go there - because I was curious about what existed on the other side of the 'door' - and so, immediately, I was there at the entrance.

At first, I could only detect an enormous 'crowd of people' on the other side of the opening. Then, when I was on the threshold, I saw a whole world there, as I would describe it now. Some 'creatures' stood at the inner side of the entrance - I supposed they were angels, although they had no wings, etc., just beautiful happy faces and bodies that looked like human bodies. They smiled in a welcoming and affectionate way to me. I peeked through the opening but I ever strode in. Then I saw that! An infinite 'world' of angels stood inside there, millions, trillions of creatures. Everything and everyone was in this indescribable pure and beautiful light, like silver; yes, I simply cannot find words to describe that. The most remarkable of all and at the same time wonderful: it looked like all these angels were expecting me! The little me!

It was as if they showed me - or reminded me - what was waiting once for me, something felt in a very immediate form. At the same time, it appeared as if it they knew that my 'time' had not yet arrived. I got first surprised, perhaps disappointed or something else, but I became reconciled with that and accepted the fact. Not because it was their decision, but because it was my own decision. They had received me in this 'now' or whatever I can call it, but for some reason I should return to earth (and, so, to my body). It was as if they just reminded me of my own decision!

Within an instant, I was in my body, raised me up, and ran from that place so fast that not even a dog would catch me up.

During the following trial in the district court, when they examined in detail every kick, every blow, against my head and my breast, it was stated that 'the maltreatment should be appraised as highly severe'. Some of the kicks against my head should have killed me. I hadn't been even to the hospital! Obviously, I didn't need that. I had neither internal nor external injuries. I could run and walk normally. It happened only that I spat some phlegm or some blood. This was all.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Hösten 1987

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Criminal attackDirect head injury  'Kraftiga, upprepade sparkar och slag mot bröst och huvud. Mycket grov misshandel.'  Other 'Vet ej om skadorna var livshotande eller ej, även om de var många och allvarliga, då de ''försvann'' efter upplevelsen...'  I was exposed to severe beating and I was convinced that I would have died in that occasion. However most of the injuries disappeared (caused by three persons and a dog) directly after the event, which makes it highly difficult to evaluate how life threatening the situation really was.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was fully awake/conscious during the whole experience; I remember thinking I was even more conscious in that condition than it seemed to be the world and the reality under me.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Both time and space in earth stopped completely. Simultaneously 'the time and the space' in the other side was completely alive, evident and real.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see many, different, aspects of the surroundings more rapidly and simultaneously. I could perceive colors and light in a distinguished way. Everything was much, much clear.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    In that way we address 'reality', which was going on under me the whole time, as a side by side dimension, everything was silent because time and space had stopped. I cannot remember whether I 'heard' anything, in anyway not similar to the normal detection of 'sound', or even if 'sound' was there in a completely different form. It was like, so to speak, as 'silence' never existed, I perceived sound in the form of jubilance, voices, conversations, music, a kind of delightful mumble or joyful sound from all these creatures.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I don't remember having experienced any 'tunnel'. I saw only this entrance without a door.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Creatures and/or angels. Some were above me; some were on the other side of the 'door's opening'. I recognized none of them as belonging to my terrestrial life, or, on the opposite, to my previous 'spiritual life'. I am sure of that. We communicated through telepathy, I suppose. It was like 'voices', which came and went immediately between us. A complete clear and direct communication, that didn't allow any sort of lies, only clean and clear communication. We talked about those things I had described, about the meaning and the purpose of my life, about the world of God and everything around order and meaning, and much more.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I cannot remember seeing any direct light, other than these beautiful, clear colors. All of it had a silver glimmer. I remember purity, beauty, and clearness in everything. I have the strong feeling, however, that I don't remember exactly everything that happened, that certain 'things' disappeared from my conscious mind.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Den oändliga värld som fanns på andra sidan "dörröppningen".

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Joy, happiness, blessedness, joy filled with humor, total comprehension, wonder, determination, mutual understanding, love, the feeling of being at home.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I chose not to cross the boundary/door's opening. I realized I had complete independence of choice to go ahead, but I didn't do it, in accordance to what I had decided before I was born which deals with my tasks/school here on earth.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   'Ingen direkt, ''barnatro''. Ej någon religiös uppfostran eller miljö.'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Now I don't believe, I know.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Kristen.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Now I don't believe, I know.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   First of all: There was a meaning in my life and existence here in earth, something once I had chosen myself. There is a meaning and an order in the whole world/cosmos/ the world of God. Love and comprehension is the most important. I could really learn what forgiveness means and deals with, the great secret it comprises! What is the purpose of continuing my life here in the earth, however, I couldn't know/remember.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes They are now deeper, more empathic and sensitive.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Not difficult at all to write down such things (they came rapidly as 'flowing water' and, so to speak, words were written by themselves, after twenty-one years) though difficult sometimes to find the proper words/expressions/descriptions for certain occurrences and events.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can sometimes predict the future, which often has been verified, both in important and more trivial events. I have dreams that become true, have visions in the form of quick 'film clips' or insights. I can sense and detect, in a audiovisual form, the presence of dead people/spirits. I cannot use wristwatches because, in different ways, they get broken: the watchband itself breaks down, splinters become loose, and the watch stops completely or goes too fast/slow, the minute hand bends under the glass cover.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        In especial, the fear/insecurity for the death disappeared completely. To have experienced everything around Jesus, the angels, etc., and the love and humor have a highly indescribable significance. The insight, especially, into forgiveness and understanding is important.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It took ten to twelve years before I told my wife. She understood and reacted with interest, fascination and joy. She was surely influenced, before she recently died. Also other people have been affected later, solely positive.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was more real than the 'reality'. I felt both sorrow/regret and an inexpressible joy for having experienced that. I remembered, then as now, exactly all around it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was and it is a great richness; the experience made me also more serious and reflective, more sensitive to other people and, not least, to animals.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Only this: We are all interlinked; we all belong to the same universe and cosmos. Anything we do against others, we do against ourselves, the existence and God. Love, understanding, humor and wisdom are the most important. Nobody escapes from this, nobody is an exception, and everything is interconnected.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       The most important in this case, probably, is that those who had had a NDE participate and elaborate as much questions as possible to cover the range of NDEs and their different causes and events.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1john_s_nde_3876.html