{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1john_s_nde_22655.html","mytitle":"John S NDE 22655","mylang":"de"}
          	        John S NDE 22655  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					John S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2980 John S NDE 22655  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was traveling with my Mother to my soccer game in Livonia. Back then, you were not required to wear seat belts, my Mother chose too, and I never did. While driving my Mother was asking me a question about school and I was fidgeting with my soccer shoes, taking one of them off to re-adjust my socks and shin pads. As we entered closer to another road, there was a Cadillac car driving and slowing down in the turn lane, I noticed him and looked away for a second and felt this surge of electricity go through me and for some reason I looked up as my Mother was still asking the question. At that moment, I wanted to, but had no opportunity to warn my Mother for the accident that was to take place. I instantly put my hands on the dash board, the next thing was silence, a bright light, and I was standing on the side walk noticing the car I was just in was moving still towards the side walk.

I was in a serene state of awareness, completeness and everything seemed to move slowly around me. I noticed my body was partly out of the vehicle front window and I also noticed a lot of blood on the window itself that was all smashed up. There were people running towards the vehicle but in slow motion and then I felt a tug on my arm and it was my old best friend from young childhood smiling at me. I just felt an awe-feeling and she told me everything would be all right and it was time for me to go back and she said she loved me. This girl who tugged on my arm was named Ruthy, who was killed several years back in an accident when she moved from Michigan. At that moment, I felt an enormous pain seemingly everywhere and pulled myself back into the vehicle.

I first noticed the screaming siren sounds and the voices all around.  Suddenly I noticed my Mother not responsive and knocked unconscious. She was a bloody mess as I was too. She ended up breaking her nose in several places; she broke her knee and had damage to other parts of her body. I experienced several deep head gashes, my face had some cuts and if it weren't for me feeling the electric urge to place my hands up and brace myself on the dash, I would have been thrown from the car. The police actually said we were both extremely lucky, my Mother for not knowing and being in they call the ‘drunken state’ of awareness and me for bracing myself. I actually had my hand prints imprinted on the dash; they were also surprised that my elbow bones weren't through my skin. My Mother had surgery for her broken bones and I went for tests, but nothing showed up. I have had several other OBEs some before then and some after. I can even make it happen on my own, now. I was afraid to tell people at that time, because in those days, they would have probably sent you away to some mental health institution. Thank god for changes in science, spiritual growth and for others coming out to share their experiences. Thank you for letting me share my story.  Have a wonderful day.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  7-12-81

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening   Not as much for me, but my Mother who was the driver of the car.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I could see the car still moving, the people all around, the cars still stopping and my upper part of my body resting on the dash/hood. The window on my side was nearly gone (smashed) my Mother’s side was just cracked all over.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was conscious until we were hit, then I was unconscious.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time seemed to slow down.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My old friend.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   For a brief moment.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I felt nothing that I usually would feel. Especially the pain.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Completeness when I was out of my body. Like there was no time and I was in a full state of awareness. I was not sad, or happy. I was complete, fulfilled and one with everything around me.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   German Lutheran

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I became angrier for not sharing my story and what took place. I knew people would ridicule me.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No     I had to type some of this as though through my childhood.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The accident was the worst. The best is how amazing it was to see my old friend and hear her tell me she loved me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Just recently and I am going to share my stories with a NDE-OBE and spiritual group. I forget their name.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1john_s_nde_22655.html