{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1john_s_nde_7810.html","mytitle":"John S NDE 7810","mylang":"de"}
          	        John S NDE 7810  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					John S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4035 John S NDE 7810  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was night time and it was raining. My mate and I where speeding around the roads of and I did not to have a seat belt on. On top of that, I had a few unsheathed knives on the floorboard by my feet.  It's hard to remember the initial point of contact, but when the cars touched, everything became extremely lucid. At one point I remember everything froze as if time had momentarily stopped.  I recall seeing the knife hanging there in mid-air. It felt like a lifetime had passed.  All I could think of was that if I didn't find a way to stop the knife, it will impale my mate.  So I threw myself in front of the knife as hard as I could. Upon contact with the cold steel, the last thing I remember was seeing stars.  Darkness washed over me. I felt powerless, like this was the end of everything. 

A deep vast nothingness surrounded me, yet I did not feel alone. It felt like whatever was with me had a great evil resonating from it. I shouted and screamed, 'No, not like this!  I have to go back. He needs me. He needs me to make everything alright.' It became a chant and a plea because I did not want to die. There was so much I wanted to see and so much I missed out on. I closed my eyes slowly.  

Then I felt myself descending fast . I opened my eyes to find myself limp and my mate frantic. I fell to my knees feeling terrified seeing myself like that. I was enraged that there was nothing I could do to comfort him. I was sick to find I put him at such a risk and glad, that I did whatever I could to save him. Even though it cost me my life, I felt a hand grip my shoulder.  I turned to see no one there. A disembodied voice whispered in my ear. 'Why do we live?'  A warmness filled the air around me. 'We live to be a part of something much greater than ourselves,  to become part of every life and everything,' I replied.  I felt the presence move.  Faintly, I made out a shadowy figure outlined in the rain.  It pointed to my lifeless body. 'Man,' it stated, 'was put on this earth for one reason. To find their own way in their own life.  What does this mean to you?' it's voice now booming and filling my ears. 'It means there is no such thing as a useless life, no such thing as a pawn. We are born to fail only so we can learn." Laughter like lightning cracked the air; to an extent I could feel the energy and smell the electronically charged air. 'I have admired your way of thinking for some time now young one, but now it's time to return to the world of the living.  Do not fret . I will be watching you, as I have always.' 

I remember taking the deepest breath I have ever taken in my entire life and letting it out in a scream of pain . The pain felt good, like being alive again. After I calmed my nerves, I cackled in laughter.  I told my mate that I have seen the face of God.  After the 30 something staples I received and the long walk home, I felt at ease. Aside from the movement problems I experience from time to time, I recovered nicely.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  2/16/2015

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I had a knife enter my skull while in a car crash

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  When my mate was freaking out and the ambulance showing up just before I regained consciousness in my body.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   My senses where heightened. For example, I'm a smoker so my sense of smell is not that good. Ever since the incident, my sense of smell has been better than normal.  I have astigmatism, yet my sight has grown stronger without the use of my glasses.  My memory has increased at leased by twice the amount, as well.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Whenever I encountered the translucent being

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time was elastic; it rewound at times then played back to a certain point.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Normally I have astigmatism, one eye nearsighted one eye farsighted. But everything in that state, and since then, is crystal clear.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I used to suffer from that syndrome you get from loud noises when there is ringing in your ears. In my state, I was in the silence, before my encounter with the being. But now it seems to be cured.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     My dog was there, now that I think of it. Odd though, we left him at home last I checked.

The experience included:       Void

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Fear, sorrow, anger, and happiness

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Atheist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Unknown

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Agnostic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     It showed me there is a higher power, what it is I do not know.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     There is a spiritual world around us; I did not believe this before.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   The outline of a person in the downpour, we held a conversation

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   As I said before I am not a religious person

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably does not exist

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     What I saw didn't fully show itself to me. Just it's silouet.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       I am uncertain if God exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     All life has meaning , useless life dose not exist here ,and we live to be a part of something greater than ourselves.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       I am uncertain if an afterlife exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Calling it a gift is a bit far-fetched.  I guess I first became aware of it about a week ago. We have an older TV with a newer one sitting on top of it. The reason for this is that I play a lot of video games and my mate watches cable.  One day, I was moving the cable cord from my TV that was on top to his TV. Both where on and after I unscrewed the cord from the TV I was using, I found that both TVs received the cable transmission. So I looked at the back of his TV, and there was no cable anywhere near the jack. I thought it was just my mind playing tricks on me, so I left the cable cord half hanging out my TV and called my mate in there. I asked him if he saw it too.  He thought I was joking so he looked at the back of his TV and did like a triple-take. When he touched it, it stopped. It was pretty cool.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I am unsure of this question, if I saw it I have to believe it happened. The only way to explain it is that it was something I wouldn't expect to have happened. That's how I can separate it from the rest of my life.  There is no explanation.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   We have a gas stove; it was left, on by accident, overnight. In the morning I heard the same voice tell me 'Idiot, your stove is running, you're going to suffocate if you don't get up and do something!' My mate was at work at this time and the only other one in the house was my dog, and as far as I know, he can't speak perfect English.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The only time these things happen is when my dog is near. Is he a possible conduit for this higher power to communicate with me?  I have never thought of this until now, sort of like a familiar or something.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1john_s_nde_7810.html