{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1john_r_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"John R Probable NDE 7859","mylang":"de"}
          	        John R Probable NDE 7859  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					John R Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4069 John R Probable NDE 7859  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was going through a really rough relationship since I had fallen in love and found out she was addicted to heroin. I tried to get her off the drugs but got hooked myself. I was very wealthy and looked up to in the community. Over about a year, all my vehicles, assets, and savings were gone. My girl just up and left me.  By now all my friends and everything I had worked for including my identity were gone. I happened to be giving myself very large doses of heroin, main lining as much as I could get as fast as I could get it. I had already overdosed multiple times within the last month and a half. I figured I'd try to get off the drugs and get my girl back. I hadn't used in three and a half weeks.   

I use to have an immortal God-like complex. I had some 'friends' come over with some gun powder heroin. I bought 4 points, .4 which I knew .1 would kill any regular person. My friends were making a fuss about me doing all of my heroin, so I made a deal said I'd do only .2. I did and got the most amazing rush, so nobody was looking when I did the other .2 within a minute of the first hit. The last conscious vision I had was my face heading towards the floor. 

At first it was as if I was dreaming.  I was very happy and in a relaxed state of mind, somewhat euphoric. It was like I was floating through dark matter, like a fog but not quite like that. I started experiencing a higher sense of awareness, like waking up from a dream but more like coming out of a stupor or blank stare. I was lying on a table made of stone that was light gray in color. But I'm not feeling my body. I only notice my body as I look around; by looking around I mean that it was definitely much wider and broad type of vision than normal. Before I looked around and saw the tables, I was so calm and at peace. I was relaxed, like all my worries, problems and everything was amazingly great. I was like nirvana or an enlightened state of mind. That quickly changed. 

Then I'm in a small valley at its lowest point. There's a lot of tables laid out in an organized pattern. Some of the tables are empty and others not. The tables are laid out in all directions up to the horizons or points of vision and further I believe. There were people lying on these tables; some had the bottom of their legs cut off, hands, arms, some had more limbs gone then others. I remember the faces of the closest "people" with their skin of a medium gray-blue shade. Their eyes were really white and just empty colors. Where their limbs were cut, it wasn't dripping or fresh blood.  It was burgundy in color like it'd been a while. The people were squirming around crying out in pain and agony. I couldn't hear them even though I was close enough. Their facial expressions, along with everything else, made me very aware.  This is where my vision ends or possibly my mind blocked me out.  

I hardly remember coming to and feeling cold. I came to find out that nobody could get me to wake from up from my overdose, so all but one person took off because they didn't want to be held accountable. They just left me there dead, weren't going to do anything.  It blew my that person's mind when I just snapped to.  He swore I was dead, dead, like gone. 

I went to the spare room and locked myself in it, eventually fell asleep. I didn't talk much for a couple days and tried not to think about it ever. I started experiencing extreme lucid night terrors and sleep paralysis, that terrorized me up until 5 or 6 months ago. This experience is hard to fathom and even harder to accept.  I try to understand and be at peace with the whole sleep paralysis and night terrors considering the fact I'm sure they were dark entities or demons trying to pull something out of my chest. I was waking up into reality two or three times a night.  Finally when I was actually waking up, I couldn't breath or speak. I try to sit up fast and it was as if something were pulling me back into my bed. And I don't scare easily. Waking up from the night terrors, I thought I was having a heart attack.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  3/15/11

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.    Drug or medication overdose.       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   Overdosed on heroin

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I had no self-awareness, meaning my body couldn't see, hear, feel or touch.  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It was complete clarity of the mind and peaceful, like all the voices and static, random meaningless thoughts just were gone.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I noticed I was on the stone table and then up until the point right before I woke.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     Faster and slower in different stages.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was as if I was in a movie or the universe was revolving around me. I say movie because it was so vivid and clear, it's as if I was in a movie and have watched it over and over.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I couldn't hear anything, not like I lost my hearing, I couldn't hear the people's moans but I sense I could hear the atmosphere and the scenery. As if I could hear it by feeling it, like all my senses was one.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I don't think so, I felt as if I was floating through a black shroud or matter.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     No relationship, I don't know if they were alive or dead considering what plane I was in, but I'd say they were alive to dying.

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I think it was purgatory.

The experience included:       Hellish imagery

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       At first, peace, clarity, relaxation, and then I was in a 'like ok, what?' Then I was confused, scared, worried, and felt badly.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     A higher understanding for spiritual connectivity, I use to fight a lot and be aggressive, I'm not anymore.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   I'm not sure, I think, I was sent back.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths   Growing up I went to a Catholic school and church. Then for a short period of time I studied the marmon religion. At the time I was not religious at all, pretty against religion

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Believe in God

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   Catholic and Buddhist

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I thought when u died just darkness and nothingness, I was wrong

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe in creator, heaven, hell, demons, angels, and afterlife.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I saw, what I think were people being tortured or paying for their sins.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I can feel a connection with every living thing, and I respect care and have love for them all, which I didn't before

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God does not exist

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Must be a higher being why else would there be stages after life

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   Yes, but only know that I'm destined for greatness and I changed my path and energy, the way it affects the earth.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife does not exist

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I was dead and it wasn't nothingness and blank space

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Uncertain     Have a changed perception on the subject try to accomplish  as much as possible because anything is obtainable

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I'm trying to make relationships more meaningful, everything, every second and event/ moment.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   My experience seemed not long at all, but the details and the awareness I had was just out of this world, as if it is photos burned into my mind.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  It's pressed into my memmory

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I feel a heightened awareness.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of it

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Uncertain    Slightly, not in depth, only small pieces

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   When I was born I wasn't supposed to live said the doctors, when I was 3 and a half I got ran over by a suburban, wasn't supposed to live, I use to believe I was immortal, untouchable, my views have changed.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I had a hard time accepting it, since it changed all my views and beliefs.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was definitely a real experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1john_r_probable_nde.html