{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1john_r_nde.html","mytitle":"John R NDE 191","mylang":"de"}
          	        John R NDE 191  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					John R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						135  John R NDE  191  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 I woke at about 7:00 am on a weekday with difficulties breathing.  As usual, I was under constant threat of asthma attacks.  I woke my mother and told her and she gave me some breath spray and some other medicine.  These failed to work so I was in for another trip to the doctor's, I often ended up at the doctor's and very rarely went as far as the hospital.


I got into the doctor's about 8:30 am and was made to wait until 10:30 am when a doctor noticed I was in trouble and turning blue.  I was rushed into the surgery and given some needles; I don't know what they were but they didn't work and I slowly worsened.


At about 11:30 am my mother couldn't wait for the ambulance to take me to hospital and raced me there in her own car.  While running into reception we were told to go straight up in the elevator.  As we entered the elevator, my mother told me it was ok now and everything was going to be ok.  But I could tell she wasn't sure, she was trying to calm me down.  I gave up and relaxed and whispered, "Thank you mummy."  It was then that I was drawn backwards down (but across) away from my eyes. I was heading down a tunnel at an amazing speed (it was like everything else was moving not me) leaving my eyes behind me like two little holes way off into the distance until they were completely gone. (But I could still hear softy what was happening.)


I arrived, after what seemed five minutes, at a place I couldn't see, but could feel (or sense).  I felt an overwhelming joy and love come over me, like a stream going through my body. I was aware that the presence of 'my lady in white' had arrived and she was welcoming me.  It wasn't a verbal communication. It was more as if I could feel what she wanted.  I seemed to know the answers to my questions before I finished thinking about them, as if I always knew them. I was asked whether I liked it there and did I want to stay?  Of course, I wanted to, but seemed to be given the knowledge that if I went back I wouldn't be able to take back the knowledge.  I was aware of knowing the reasons for living as well and what I would have to do while I was to go back - but it was mainly hypothetical because I wasn't really wanting to come back.


I believe the experience seemed to be a very long time there, about two hours, most of the memories were left there, but in this world it was approximately fifteen minutes.  These entities, spirits or whatever words you would use to describe these beings, where not of flesh and didn't seem restricted to physical limitations like we have - while I was there I was indeed like them.


I was prepared for this experience for about four years prior, from the age of three, as I was visited by a lady in a white robe with a hood.   She wore a rope for a belt and sandals on her feet and never once spoke to me, she didn't need to, and I seemed to know that she was keeping an eye on me.


Anyway it was time for me to answer them on what I wanted to do, whether to stay or go back.  It was then that I heard my mother get the news from the doctor on the top floor of the hospital that I had 'gone'.  He said he was sorry. (I asked my mother was I dead when I got back, because I heard the doctor say so.)  She was shocked, not as shocked though, as when I got back.  After I heard my mother's desperate cries I became undecided with these entities and they smiled and seemed to understand.  Then I was on the way back down the tunnel (this time it was much faster and seemed to take only thirty seconds).  At the point of arrival, I took a deep breath, looked up at my mother and then passed out.  I was asleep for two days and woke as though nothing had happened.  My asthma has never been life threatening since.


Something I would like to add was that while I was there, I knew I was in the real existence.  For example, when I got back I was in pain in my whole body, not from my struggling to breath, but from gravity, and like I was in a dream world.  Ever since I have seen this world as being not quite how things really are.  This place is the dream compared to the clarity of thought of that place.


If you want more information about how the experience has affected me please don't hesitate to contact me by e-mail.  I would like the opportunity to talk to someone that has had the same experience I had and to talk to people that know.  I thought I was alone with this experience until I was fifteen and on TV a show called "That's Incredible" came on and some other people in America were talking about the same things that I had been ridiculed over for eight years.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    1972

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Illness    Clinical death I was declared dead on arrival.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  As stated above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was more alert than I have ever been, I think I was in a higher state of consciousness.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Time seemed longer there, and there didn't seem to be any limitations to distance.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I heard a rushing wind type of sound while traveling down the tunnel. I still imagine this sound to help put myself to sleep.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     As stated above.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I can't be sure how many.  I know I sensed more than one, but I only conversed with one.

The experience included:      Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?      No   

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No     

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Love, joy and peace.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I had become aware of both the past and the future but wasn't allowed to bring those thoughts back with me.

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     Sometimes when things happen in my life I get Deja vu.  Like I can say the next thing that's said and events that come true; I get this like five minutes before it happens.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   My family didn't have any belief system at the time.

What is your religion now?      Moderate   Mostly Born again Christian. Some answers not found in Christianity.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I don't fear death.  I KNOW there is existence after death.  I know there is a beautiful, loving place beyond death's door that is waiting for me.  I know kindness and pure love is the key to unlocking the answers to life.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Some of the events I have found hard to explain.  For example, the feeling of love 'there' was like a physical thing that flowed into me and out the other side like a stream.  Also the 'knowing everything' and then not being able to bring it back or remember.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Yes, I have knowledge that is not learned here (like some cult rituals, and I have never taken part in anything of that nature).  I see auras.  I sense spirits and when I see them (which is rare) they make me cold even when it's a very hot climate.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Best, I know a great place awaits me.  Worst, I long to be there.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Since I have learned others have had the same experiences, I have found other spiritual people that have had similar experiences with spirits.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   Not of going to the other side, no.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I don't want fame or profit from my sharing this with you.  I only want to be able to share my experience with fellow NDErs and to give people hope that death isn't always a thing to fear.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      I would ask more questions about the other experiences that are a spiritual link to the experience, like they know you know the truth too.

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1john_r_nde.html