{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1john_paul_k_nde.html","mytitle":"John-Paul K NDE 824","mylang":"de"}
          	        John-Paul K NDE 824  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					John-Paul K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						327  John-Paul K NDE  824  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

In June of 1998, I suffered from a very extreme bout of clinical depression that was associated with withdrawal from the drug Valium. This depression lead me to ingest a potentially lethal dose of the drug flecainide in a suicide attempt, and as a result, I was taken to the emergency room at my local hospital. I was without a pulse or and respirations were absent for approximately eighty minutes. However, during this time I received oxygen via cardio pulmonary resuscitation (CPR). I underwent emergency surgery to insert cannul' for cardiac bypass, and subsequently spent fourteen days in the cardio-thoracic intensive care unit.


At one point, I became aware that I was no longer experiencing pain, or any physical sensation, and that time appeared to stand still. It was as if time stopped, and so too did all the physical pain and suffering that I had been experiencing. Visually, I became aware that my focus had suddenly split into two, as if I were seeing one picture but that this picture was out of focus and could be seen twice. It was as if I was staring at the same picture reflected twice, like looking into two mirrors. This state was noticeably still, and calm.


Suddenly, the motion recommenced, and I was once again conscious of physical sensation. Shortly after, I found myself speaking to my mother in the intensive care unit. My mother then told me that I had suffered a cardiac arrest as a result of taking my cardiac medication and that I was in hospital.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    July 10, 1998

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Suicide attempt    Clinical death Cardiac arrest.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I believe that I was physically dead, however I do remember the experience very well, and very clearly.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   There appeared to be no time, wherever this episode took place.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   Catholic

What is your religion now?      Liberal   Buddhist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I no longer believe in God. However, I do believe that I was in a space between bodies, where my mind was present only.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   There was no clarity, unusual shapes only, and experiences that are difficult to put into words.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Just knowing that it took place, and that there is another dimension beyond the physical.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Nothing specific. People appear to be disappointed that I did not see a tunnel, of my deceased relatives.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   I have practiced meditation for the last few years, and this enables me to recollect the stillness and the tranquility of the NDE.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      It appears to be most unlike other NDEs.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1john_paul_k_nde.html