{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1john_p_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"John P Probable NDE 21877","mylang":"de"}
          	        John P Probable NDE 21877  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					John P Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						1700 John P Probable NDE 21877  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I stuck a piece of metal into the electric socket and was standing on a metal furnace. The power had to be turned off, so that I could let go. I was grounded to the metal furnace. My body was on fire. I had swirling burn marks from the water and electricity flowing through my body. 

Once I got to the hospital, I was placed in a metal tub with ice and some type of solution. My clothes were burnt to my skin and I could still fill the electricity going through my body. The pain was so great that I asked God to come, get me, and relieve me from the pain. It was terrible. 

Then I began to rise up out of my body as a spirit. I could see over the top of my body and see all the doctors in the room looking at my lifeless body. I also saw my mother come into the hospital room screaming and crying. She was a nurse at the hospital at that time. 

Then something or someone, I think it was God, said come into the light and my spirit began to lift higher into a place of white lights with bluish color surrounding. It was very cool and it took away the pain. I don't know how long I was gone and the next time I remember being in my body. I was at home wrapped in bandages over my whole body from head to toe. 

Then when I was asleep in my bed with my sister in the room. I had the experience of a skeleton hand at the foot of my bed. I was screaming but the room was like a vacuum and no sound was coming out of my mouth. My sister was still asleep. The hand was glowing a fiery red and coming closer to me. Then I looked on the side of my bed and there was a white rocking horse. It told me to get on it. I think death was trying to come and get me. I got on the horse by crawling out of the bed and it flew me away into my future. I've always wanted to tell this story to someone but never shared this with my family.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  November 1978

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Clinical death I stuck a piece of metal into the electric socket and was standing on a metal furnace. Power had to be turned off, so that I could let go. I was grounded to the metal furnace. My body was on fire and i had swirl burn marks from the water and electricity f  I was visited by something that seemed like death. I was rescued by a white rocking horse that I used as a small child. I still have déjà vu experiences as an adult.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was conscious of the events that took place.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard whispers of a voice and the soft sound of cool air.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was pleased with the out of body experience at the hospital because it took the pain away. I was glad that my parents had told me about God. I call on him. The experience in the room was scary. Especially when I saw the hand coming. But I was saved by the white rocking horse.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

What is your religion now?       Liberal

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1john_p_probable_nde.html