{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1john_p_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"John P Possible NDE 4065","mylang":"de"}
          	        John P Possible NDE 4065  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					John P Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			1951 John P Possible NDE 4065  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I remember a severe tightness/pain in my chest, and gasping for air with the feeling I wasn't getting air. I remember floating up to the ceiling turning around and seeing myself in bed. I blinked and I was looking down at my neighborhood. Blinked, I was looking down at Boston, blink Eastern Massachusetts and Cape Cod, blink, the east coast of the US and Atlantic. Another blink, the earth was the size of a basketball, blink, the earth was the size of a ball bearing then it was gone. There was pitch-blackness no stars and I felt the most extreme cold. (All this time, I was feeling extreme fear and uncertainty. I had no idea of what was happening.)

While drifting in the darkness and bitter cold (wanting my mother), I felt a warmth coming from behind me, Although I saw no body, I somehow turned and saw a fuzzy light, which seem to be giving off the warmth, to what was now my front. (My back was still bitter cold.) I started (somehow) moving towards the light. The closer I got to the light the warmer I got, the warmer I got the more I knew. I started recalling what I thought were embarrassing moments in my life, only to understand why they happened. The closer to the light the less I wanted to return home. It got to a point I understood everything and forgot about my previous life.

Happy and content, I continued towards the light. Suddenly I felt a warmth on my still cold back (similar to a loving, embracing arm) which seemed to stop my momentum towards the light. Although I saw and heard nobody, I understood something was wrong, that whatever stopped me was being scolded by something guarding the light.

I was told it wasn't my time yet and that I would have to return, and that I would not be allowed to retain my knowledge. I pleaded not to be sent back, I begged repeatedly. With the loving warmth still embracing me, I was led away from the light still begging not to make me forget what I knew. The further from the light I got the less I knew, and the more I remembered my mom and previous life. Again, I begged to be allowed to remember something so my mom would believe me. Again, although I couldn't see anyone, they allowed me to remember three things (which have been the glue that has held me together over the years).

1) The reason for the sunrise and the sunset; The sun rises so that life can grow, and it sets, so that life can rest.

2) There is a reason for everything!

3) In our overall existence, we are but children. This is but a classroom. We are here to learn and to experience extremes. We are here to feel emotions -sadness, happiness, pain etc. and all the complexities that go with them.

With time, I have understood this to mean, with experience comes knowledge, and with knowledge comes wisdom. With wisdom comes understanding; with understanding comes a total lack of extreme emotions. Why? Because we understand why it happened.

I have determined (The Good Lord forgive me if I'm wrong) Wisdom is Light and Warmth. Ignorance is Dark and Bitter Cold.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  8/61

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    'Tightness in chest, unable to breath'  Other I was sleeping.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Immediately! Fear sharpens awareness.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Immediately! Fear sharpens awareness.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I was floating in a frigid nothingness.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Fear and going through the experience overwhelmed everything at times. The bitter cold stands out, also the peace that comes with understanding. What seems important here isn't important there.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was no sound as such. It was more like just knowing. Maybe telepathy?

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     After the earth was gone I didn't see anything. Until I turned to see the light.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     See main narrative.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was a fuzzy warmth giving light, with no defined borders.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     When I felt I knew everything, it was as if I was someplace different.  But I can't remember.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       At first, fear and confusion. Then amazement and humor at what I didn't know. Later complete peace, joy and understanding.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     See main narrative.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I experience déjà vu a lot. I went to a casino once blew one hundred dollars on the slots and was rather upset with myself. I decided to leave with my last five dollars. While walking out a slot machine on the other side of the casino seem to glow, something told me to play it. I did and won all my money back. This also happens with scratch tickets, but, I never win more than I need at that time.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   'Roman Catholic, alter boy'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Religions originally brought primitive man together, starting society civilization which led to inventions which helped society. Religion also caused most of the wars on earth. Placed limits on what man could do, think, with the threat of eternal damnation, and in the old days physical torture. It encourages divisiveness. Example: You'll only go to heaven if you believe and give money to my church (not theirs).  I believe we are here to make mistakes and to learn from them, and we will be judged not on the mistake but on our intentions after the mistake. I'm sorry if this is getting confusing I'm getting very tired.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   'I follow the Ten Commandments, with no religious affiliations.'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Religions originally brought primitive man together, starting society civilization which led to inventions which helped society. Religion also caused most of the wars on earth. Placed limits on what man could do, think, with the threat of eternal damnation, and in the old days physical torture. It encourages divisiveness. Example: You'll only go to heaven if you believe and give money to my church (not theirs).  I believe we are here to make mistakes and to learn from them, and we will be judged not on the mistake but on our intentions after the mistake. I'm sorry if this is getting confusing I'm getting very tired.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   See main narrative.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I was too young to be set in my ways. But I am very patient with most people, excluding politicians. For the most part I love and respect everyone, unless they hurt others.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     See above.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        See main narrative.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I immediately told my mother, she told me not to tell anyone. It wasn't until I was in my mid-twenties before I told anyone, and then only when they were suffering from a terminal illness or a loved one died. Probably no more than twelve to fourteen people outside my immediate family.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It's all clear and sharp today as it was when it happened.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     See above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Pot seems to enhance my premonitions. I didn't start smoking it until many years after my experience.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1john_p_possible_nde.html