{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1john_p_nde.html","mytitle":"John P NDE 182","mylang":"de"}
          	        John P NDE 182  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					John P NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification Shared Death Experience  						1438 John P NDE 182  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					The high school that I attended had a jinx that had lasted for several years in that right around graduation a senior would be killed.

About a week after I graduated, four others and I were having coffee.  It was decided that we should go to California. Eric was the only one of the group that I didn't know. When we got out to the car, I had a bad feeling about going but was talked into it. At that time, I had a small argument with Eric about who would sit 'shotgun' (by the door) and I won. The feeling that I had seemed to leave.

When I came to and asked about the others I was told that Eric's folks had taken him to Kansas. This seemed okay with me as I remembered standing in the hallway with Eric and a lady that I had never seen. In the hallway, there was an open door that led to a long hallway with a bright light at the end.

The lady said that Eric was going with her and for me to go through those doors and pointed to the emergency room. After my release from the hospital, I was told the Eric had died in the wreck. My thoughts were, 'No, because I had talked to him and the lady.' Later a friend of mine and I went by Eric's house to express my condolences. When we walked into the house, I noticed a picture of the lady that was with Eric and asked who she was. I was told that she was Eric's grandmother that had died several years ago.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  JUNE 1955

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Clinical death   Car crash.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Good.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     See main narrative.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Hospital hallway.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I really do not know!

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Answer in text, no emotions.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

     After the NDE:

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I was alive and Eric wasn't!

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?       Uncertain

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Pictures.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1john_p_nde.html