{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1john_m_nde_329.html","mytitle":"John M NDE 329","mylang":"de"}
          	        John M NDE 329  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					John M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1366 John M NDE 329  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was performing a Reference Mirror Azimuth Determination, with my team member, TSgt (technical sergeant) Will G. We just finished up and were tearing down the equipment. I was taking a short cut, and decided to disconnect a cable, without first disconnect power. The cable ended up having a broken shield, and while I was disconnecting it, my other hand was wrapped around a solid aluminum theodolite mount. I pulled 440 AC through the chest for nearly thirty seconds (according to Will). While I was disconnecting, (a bayonet mounted cable), with a broken shield, the power was jumping over the Radio Frequency Interference (RFI) shield, directly through my right hand, across the chest, and out through my left hand.

I could feel a small vibration, more like a humming, but couldn't talk. I couldn't let go and certainly couldn't communicate with Will. He was twenty feet away, tearing down other equipment. I have no idea how long it was before he noticed, but I distinctly remember looking down at myself, from about eight feet away, and four to six feet above me. I was in front of myself, seeing me being electrocuted. I could see Will breaking down the tool kit, and I could see me, doing the stupid maintenance trick, and the only feeling I had, was that I was being very stupid, and I would remember this dumb act for quite some time to come. I had a feeling of anger, knowing that if I didn't get my butt back in gear soon, we would have some major explaining to do to the commander. I wasn't at peace, I was upset that I was malingering and goofing off. It was a very strange experience.

I remember Will turning toward me and telling me to get my butt in gear and seeing him speak to me, but I couldn't answer. He shouted twice, then came over to me, and saw the problem. He raced back, pulled the power and I collapsed. The only thought that was going through my mind, was 'How am I going to explain this to the old man!'

The next thing I remember was I'm lying topside (ground level), and two medical technicians were looking at me really funny like. It turns out, Will carried me topside, and called the ambulance. He performed CPR on me for twenty to thirty minutes, though he did say I was breathing, but my heart sounded funny. The medical technicians zapped me, after reading my sinus rhythm was one hundred and eighty degrees out of sync. After stabilizing, I was admitted to the base hospital.

Will had the foresight to stick a sheet of paper in my pocket, with 'our story' to cover our butts for the stupid maintenance trick I had performed. When I was undressing, I found it, and of course memorized it, so our stories would match, when the safety guys showed up. He turned in the equipment for repair, and they found the bad shielding. Luckily, a capacitance discharge could have caused the problem, had I disconnected power first!

I didn't feel the peace that Dr. Jeff spoke of, but a very embarrassing feeling that my hinny was going to be fried for the violation of Weapon System Safety Rules (WSSR's). For over ten years, I had brown spots on my hands and right fingers, reminding me of the dumbass mistake.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  June, 1984

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  Stupid maintenance  Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I was being electrocuted, so I would have to say it was very much life threatening.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  See above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       In my body, I seemed unaware of what was going on. Looking down from above, I could see everything and hear everything that was happening. I could see Will move around and watch me being electrocuted, though that thought had not entered into my mind. I was embarrassed, but no cognizant of the fact I was getting electrocuted.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     That was a possibility. I felt that I was watching myself for a long time, perhaps twenty minutes, but I was assured by Will, that it was only a few seconds.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Anger for being really stupid.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Generic Protestant

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Generic Protestant

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Never broke the safety rules again! Towed the line after that one.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Trying to explain how it happened. Returning to the body and knowing my time wasn't up yet.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my Pastor at the time at Trinity Nazarene, and later on, to a psychologist, who was my friend. Both were very surprised to see that I was alive, and that I was angry at being caught with my pants down. Both expected a life changing event, and nothing else came of it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1john_m_nde_329.html