{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1john_m_nde.html","mytitle":"John M NDE 870\/2044","mylang":"de"}
          	        John M NDE 870/2044  			  		  		  		  		    		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					John M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						348  John M NDE  2044/870  					  				  			      			  			  				

Experience Description:   

I was on board a large Catamaran in Key West Harbor watching a motorboat race on the morning of Friday, November 13, 1994. Conditions were gusty. I was standing at the stern of the boat, looking toward the rear.  The mainsail jibed suddenly which means that it came around to the other side of the boat with incredible speed and force by a change in wind direction and the end of it caught me on the side of the head and knocked me off my feet and down a hatchway headfirst. Fortunately, someone on board had a cell phone and called the Coast Guard who were nearby because of the race. The Coast Guard came and took me ashore to the hospital. I can remember parts of this.

They checked me out in the emergency room, and gave me a CAT scan which showed multiple skull fractures and that my sinuses were filled with blood. Then the emergency room staff hooked me up to an EKG machine in a side room. Outside there was a sudden noise of helicopters and pandemonium in the emergency room. Following my accident, a motorboat in the race tipped over and the driver and throttle man were trapped underneath for fifteen minutes. They were brought in by helicopters. While they were trying to save these men, one of whom died, they left me alone in the side room.

The next thing I remember is being outside of my body and being able to fly around the room. I remember being delighted at being able to propel myself around. I went up to the ceiling, and looked at the light fixtures close up, noting the detail of them and how they were made. Then I looked down and saw my body still lying there and there was a man that looked a little like a doctor leaning over it. I flew down for a closer look. He was dressed in what at first seemed a lot like a hospital robe. It was yellow, almost like it had gold in it. And he wore a pillbox-type hat which looked a little like the kind of cap a doctor wears in surgery except this was more like a hat and it had writing on it in an alphabet I did not recognize. However, it might have been Hebrew or something related to it. He held objects that looked similar to crochet hooks, they were gold or bronze in color, and he was using them to do something to the side of my head where I had been hit. 

Then he said something to me like ‘Well, you won't get too many chances to recover from something like this again. You must be much more careful in the future or you won't be able to do what you have to do and that won't be good.’ It was as if he didn't say it in so many words but I understood it as complete sentences. Then he said, ‘Now stop fooling around by flying around and get back into your body and ask someone for water and a blanket.’ I did what he said, and in an instant, he disappeared and I could feel myself zipping back into my body. Soon s nurse walked by and I asked her for water and a blanket. She brought the blanket, which felt really good, and she let me wet my mouth with a little water. Then I went to sleep. Later they took me upstairs. Because of the confusion, I spent about nine hours in the emergency room.

  Background Information:    

  Gender:    Male  

  Date NDE Occurred:    November 13, 1994  

  NDE Elements:    

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death I had a skull fracture from being hit by the boom of a large sailboat as it swung around in a violent shift of the wind.  

  How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

  The experience included:      Out of body experience  

  Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I felt that I was conscious, apart from the sleeping and unconscious body on the stretcher below me. I could move about by will as if I were flying. I really enjoyed being able to do it, like a little kid thrilled with a new toy. I don't remember examining my appearance or even thinking about it. I definitely remember reentering my body; remember positioning my spirit body to lie down with the physical one and the two rejoining.  

  At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was dazed from the blow to the head and I realize now that I was ‘in and out’ of consciousness during the time in the emergency room but I remember that my alertness during the experience was high, in contrast to the way I remember being before and after the experience.  

  Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I have no idea how long the experience actually took. I estimate I was left in that side room for at least six hours.  

  Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Not that I can remember.  

  Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     The only other being I encountered was the man who was working on my body doing some kind of medical procedure and who gave me the stern warning to be more careful in the future. He was standing there next to me on the stretcher and seemed to be doing something with instruments that looked like they were made of bronze or a similar yellowish metal and in the shape of crochet hooks. He seemed put out that I was flying about in a childish manner. He warned me to be more careful and told me to go back into my body and to ask for a blanket and water.  

  Did you see an unearthly light?      No     

  Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No       

  The experience included:      Strong emotional tone  

  What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I felt curiosity about what was going on with my body down below me and happiness or delight in the ability to move around effortlessly through what seemed like mental energy. Also not exactly fear but a great deal of respect for the individual who was working on me and for the things he said to me.  

  The experience included:      Special Knowledge  

  Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Only the extremely unusual occurrence I have described.  

  Did scenes from the future come to you?      No       

  Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was told very sternly to get back into the body, and I aligned myself with the position of the body, and almost immediately I was back in it and seeing things with my eyes, or with one eye since the other eye was swollen closed.  

  God, Spiritual and Religion:    

  What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal     

  What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist     

  Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I'm even surer of the afterlife now, but perplexed as to its very nature. I'm convinced that it is much more complicated that we can imagine. It did make religious, denominational differences seem irrelevant.  

  The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings  

  After the NDE:    

  Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No     

  Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No     I was told very sternly to get back into the body, and I aligned myself with the position of the body, and almost immediately I was back in it and seeing things with my eyes, or with one eye since the other eye was swollen closed.  

  Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Getting hurt in the first place was the worst thing. The best part was feeling that there are mysteries that no living person can explain.  

  Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Some understand what I am talking about and have met others who have had the same type of experience. Some people believe me, while others think that I am crazy. A lot of people explain it by saying things like hallucinations are to be expected after a head injury and so on.  

  At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No 

 

  Questions Answered Years Later #2044:    

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 11/13/94  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident     Direct head injury    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   I have no idea of how long the procedure actually took.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see clearly, even though one eye was swollen shut, and the other eye was partially shut.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear what I was told as if via ESP, not like regular hearing.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     A man dressed in a robe and cap operated on me with brass-colored instruments and warned me not to take unnecessary physical chances in the future.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Amazement, delight, wonder.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     They have changed a little, but it came afterward, and not as a direct result of my experience.  

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     They have changed a little, but it came afterward, and not as a direct result of my experience.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I've tried to be a lot nicer and tolerant. I am calmer and braver.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     For a long time afterwards, I could see people's auras and seemed able to predict small events accurately.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I have certainly been a lot more careful about not getting hurt as I was advised to do.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    After about one week I shared what happened. Those I told seemed to accept it. In some cases they didn't want to talk about it anymore.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   I'm sure I had heard about NDE experiences from books and articles. My experience was different from those I had read about so at first I didn't recognize the connection between what I had read and what happened.  Later I read a couple of books about NDEs.    

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was fresh in my mind and as I recovered from the injuries I became even more certain about what had happened.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Later x-rays showed no displacement of bone even though I had sustained a severe blow to the head.  A great deal of CSF had leaked out through my sinuses and throat. I think the messenger had actually reset the bones as I watched from outside my body.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Can't think of anything right now.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I have heard some people describe sort of an electrical charge in their bodies afterwards. There is some anecdotal evidence that they are no longer able to wear a watch without it malfunctioning. I wonder if there is anything to these reports, and what might be the underlying scientific cause, if any.  For a while afterward I had the idea that I also had some kind of charge although it went away after about six months.          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1john_m_nde.html