{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1john_j_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"John J Probable NDE 4807","mylang":"de"}
          	        John J Probable NDE 4807  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					John J Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2440 John J Probable NDE 4807  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I am trying to document as much as I can in a poem format, this is the beginning as by my time in the other realm I spent several years and there is much to tell. I shall continue as I have time, but it was an experience as real as any in life I have had thus far.



A Journey Through My Mind  (JJ 2010)



As I lay on the table, locked within my mind

I looked down upon my body to find

People working, both calm and cool

Yet feverishly, trying to help an old fool



As I lay on this edge of death and life

Flashes of my life went flitting thru

Flashes of the life that I had, heavy in strife

Flashes of the life that I wanted, with love true



Flashes of what life could be

That is what played in front of me



Many friends I did see and newer did meet

The errors of my life some friends did greet

That I have lived within the shadow became moot

For hide no more could I within this group



For as I took stock of a life not in sync

With people all around giving me their best

Back slapping and hands shook until pink

I started to wonder if this would end my quest



I had journeys of wonder with friends of old

We saw so very many things I had dreamed

Days we spent wandering, the hours untold

For my desire to travel is what I had schemed



We hiked the mountains of my memory

Around lakes I had never seen before

So many new pleasures assailed my olfactory

It seemed I'd been transported to days of yore



Small villages living as they did way back

People happy, caring and enjoying life

Smiling as though they did not live in a shack

Hunting, fishing and feeling no strife



Levitated cars sliding silently along

The horses not scared as they passed by

Old and new technologies strong

Mixed in use keeping the elders spry



The year was determined uncertain

All time was in existence together

Many had already passed the curtain

Others would the future see gather



The friends I saw were any age they chose

The confident appeared as arrived

Young or old, in suits or sporty clothes

They could be whatever they strived



My bucket was emptied and needed a fill

Some contemplation time was in order

You can help no other when feelings are nil

I journeyed in privacy to the quiet woods border



(BACK IN TIME)

Many days I spent alone in the wood

Forgotten moments pervading my thought

Assuring myself reminiscing was good

my reverie broken at the sound of a shot



it was the first out of place sound I did hear

the thought it was important slowly crept thru

I thought it strange I did not feel fear

In a rush I sorted the old from the new



in black pajamas they moved stealthily along

a large hunting party it would appear

upon sighting me they broke out in a song

a hauntingly familiar language did I hear



they approached with recognition of me

while all I could do was place their race

grins on their face said friendly they be

moving in close they abated their pace



a full salute they then did grant me

at attention like good soldiers will

in unison words came 'we forgive thee'

I blanched at the memory and became ill



soldiers they were of memory repressed

as real as I recalled them in life

sent to this place in their warrior dress

forgiving me for widowing their wife



warriors they would remain until forgiven

and apparently this started their test

truly forgiving me was their way to heaven

conceding that I had gotten their best



that I put them here came as no surprise

there are things in war that have a place

the unnerving part was the group's size

and the gallantry of their grace



young they were, children almost

way too young it did seem to me

but on the mortal side they'd be a ghost

perhaps the way it was meant to be



I recalled I was youth, same as they

the way of war is the young to use

war's leaders strive to keep it that way

young willingly obey and never refuse



I needed to respond and looked to the sky

When I felt the answer within me rise,

Something logic told me they would buy

Yet I found just another question in disguise



Why after decades did these soldiers return

What was their reason for searching for me

Did they think me responsible for their burn

Exactly who did they think I could be



I queried them 'looking at me who do you see?'

Their response was in unison and quick

'you have become the passkey for me'

finally the connection started to click



I found it hard to fathom at first

Why my word could help clean their slate

Perhaps because they had held a blood thirst

And now desired to be released from their hate



Could I forgive those that hunted me

When many saw and simply passed by

Those that would kill what they could not see

Who thought ‘live and let live' a lie



Over forty years of my life has since passed by

How long for them I am unable to say

My sleep now is broken and dry

To forgive them I hope to find a way



I was the one that helped them to this place

And again I was chosen to play host

To forgive them would be giving my grace

And I would get what I wanted most



What I will do I currently can't say

To be done with it would limit their drain

Perhaps I will give them all their way

One last time to get it fully out of my brain





(FAMILY)



Along a meandering river I quietly walked

Having spent my day talking at length

To understand my visit my brain had balked

It was clear I'd lacked the inner strength



I watched my son, grown to a man

Helping some children launch their kites

I saw his many friends run with them

Causing them to fly like woodland sprites



That he was so young gave me pause

He seemed younger than when I'd seen him last

Why was he here and by what cause

Until I remembered age here was not fast



Talking with him he'd chosen a time

When he was happy and swimming the laps

It was a time of listening for the starter's chime

Before he had listened to my final taps

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  4/10/10

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Spontaneous colon perforation.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   All of it I think.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All of it I think.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Apparently as I seemed to spend several years there.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Didn't need my reading glasses.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Much fuller than my very diminished hearing now, equal to youth.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Many old acquaintances, some I had not seen or thought about in thirty or more years.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Not as usually related, I simply wandered into a beautiful meadow off a lake in the mountains.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     OLDEN TIME VILLAGES AND OPEN LAND THRU THE MOUNTAINS. UNFAMILIAR BUT DISTINCTLY EARTHY.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       All of them.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     With three acquaintances, absolutely accurate.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Only that it seemed an affirmation there is something after life here and it is not to be feared.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Hard on the marriage.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The pure emotion of relating it.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Past acts that are less than easily accepted came home and continue to haunt me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Business partner, listened well asked good questions - psychologist.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     As memorable as any other actual happening.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I continue to dream of the requests made of me at the time.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1john_j_probable_nde.html