{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1john_g_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"John G Probable NDE 2624","mylang":"de"}
          	        John G Probable NDE 2624  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					John G Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						855  John G Probable NDE  2624  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I have experienced many things I later found out no one else could see, from nearly infancy. My 'feelings, or premonitions' saved my life at least three times, two of them in Boston, where I was held up at gunpoint, but I knew ahead what was coming, and what to do. Both times, the police were shocked I wasn't dead or at least shot. I am 54, never had even a beer, and had a 182 IQ back in Junior High (Ridgefield, Connecticut). I have an uncanny memory, along with mild dyslexia.

During the summer of 1983, after listening to subliminal tapes at night, to open up 'psychic abilities', I was walking across the pastures of my new farm, and got a vision I can still go back to in my mind, and examine things. I saw my dear late mother Louise to the left, from above, in stirrups, and knocked out, bleeding profusely. To the right of her, was the doctor, he was bald on the top, with curly ringlets going grey. I knew he didn't want to be there, and was disgusted to have to be there, as he pulled off the gloves, to get ready to go scrub up again to sew my mother up. I also was aware that he was a golfer, and a social climber. I didn't like him on any level. He mildly disgusted me.

All the way over, to the right, were two nurses, on the right of the two, was one of Scandinavian American heritage. I didn't really relate to her, but she was a kind, rather passive, an uninteresting person to me. Next to her, was a very large Irish/American nurse. In her arms was the most handsome baby you could imagine - other than he was red and purple, with a dangling umbilical cord. The cord was maybe ten inches long. As I looked, I realized it was me.

The fat Irish nurse would not give up on me, as I think she knew about the C's being special (the veil).

The following Christmas, I flew my mother Louise to Dallas, and when we got to my home, I asked, 'Mom - was I born dead?'

For the first time in my life she yelled at me saying 'Oh my God - who told you???!!! No one could have told you! I never even told your father!'

I accurately described everything to Louise, who lived her life only in truth.

I'm only bothering with this, as I would hope women might be aware that prior to my first breath, I understood everything going on in the delivery room, and knew what everyone was 'about', as people. I agree that life begins at conception, obviously, and I have unique insight to share.

I did suffer mild and at the time, undiagnosed, dyslexia. I actually stayed back the year they had given IQ tests, and the office at Ridgefield High School, in Connecticut, called my mother and said, 'Mrs. G, Jay cheated on his IQ test.' My mother apologized humbly. Three hours later, another call, 'Well, Mrs G, no one else's IQ is even close to Jay's - obviously, there must have been some mistake.' From the beginning of seventh grade, take two, a new guidance counselor from New York, Mrs. G, was fascinated by my IQ, and tested me before school, during lunch and break, and after school, for the entire school year. The results surfaced that following summer - exactly 182 again. They surmised that I 'didn't apply myself.' We were the liberals, in Ridgefield Connecticut, and the school system pandered to the wealthy, not us.

After my vision, and conformation with my mother, I realized where the learning disability started, and over the decades, grew to forgive myself. Paradoxically, a very kind couple used to shop at the aquarium I worked at, and he was a dean of admission, at Dartmouth. I was accepted to school at age fifteen - and if the drunk driver hadn't hit us on Easter Sunday, 1970, I would have gone, as I was wanting to work with endangered species in Africa, or Australia. Having had the offer though, was always very comforting to me. I have always been on a different path than my contemporaries. I didn't want to be, but I was. I'm not hung up on money, though it seems to always come to me, and I think I'm not passive per se, but very loving and caring. I have always had dreams about events and people, in premonitions. I cannot seem to turn it on, but have much pre-cognition.

When two, at Barnum and Baileys Circus, in Stamford Connecticut, I escaped under the bleachers, and ended up in the Elephant Tent. I wasn't talking yet, took a long, long time to, but I knew what the elephants were thinking, and the female kept me against her front left leg, and in a definite order, she permitted each of the other fourteen of them, to shuffle around their noisy chains, reach me, and check me out. They were very gentle, and always started at my head, down my face (they had humid breath - with hairs in trunk!!!). They slowed down on my face, then half way down, then would go to my sandaled feet, back up to the middle, pause, then continue to head - at which time the lead female would just tense up a little, and tell them it was the next one's turn. It didn't scare me at all, I knew I was safe. Finally, with half the state police searching for me, the elephant trainer came in, and in a crude loud voice said, 'Get out of here!' Mildly insulted and offended, I ran out - guess who got a harness after that??

My mother always said I was born 12:31 - birth certificate states 3:43, but my mom was out by the time I was talked back in. Well, here I am, and every day has been a gift from God! I live my life that way!

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 9-16-51  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Childbirth     MY CHILDBIRTH  Other DOCTOR USED ETHER ON MY MOM WHEN I GOT STUCK IN BIRTH CANAL. IT APPARENTLY CUT OFF OXYGEN TO MY BRAIN.  I WAS PRONOUNCED DEAD. I WAS ALSO BORN WITH A VEIL. MY MOTHER LOUISE WAS TOO. IT APPARENTLY UPSET MY POLISH CATHOLIC GRAND MOTHER VERY MUCH.  The quack who was delivering me, killed me (I loath most doctors and view them as hired help, and greedy unenlightened beings).  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I didn't have a really correct choice.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I just remember the scene from the ceiling of room, and the understanding of all the people in the room.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   Hey I was a stillbirth but it felt different than pregnancy.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     I wish, at least then my experience might relate to someone else's.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I wasn't scared, I was just observing. I understood everything going on, and the personalities of the people. Remember, I hadn't been born yet, and once out hadn't breathed for a very, very long, long time.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     What life? It hadn't begun.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     I have known things ahead of time throughout my life of fifty-four years, among them things I didn't want to know, I sense when people from my life are going to pass over.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   MOOT POINT  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate   ALL OF ABOVE, CONSERVATIVE LIBERAL, SUCH ANTIQUATED TERMS, SHOULD HAVE BEEN RETIRED WITH BELLBOTTOMS.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I loved a lovely girl in high school, named Julie. She was killed two weeks after our head on collision. I passed her on the road three minutes before, and waved to each other. I would have ended my life because of this event, but feared that had I, I would never see her on 'the other side'. She is worth waiting for. I try extra hard to be kind to all, in her memory.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Well, these things run in family, both sides, along with the dreadful high IQs. How I wished I was stupid, growing up, like everyone else. I am unable to know if it was my destiny, or from my still birth - perhaps both?  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Well, when life hits a bump, I 'growl' at that nurse who talked me back here! I do it with tongue and cheek, as she has passed a long while ago, and might be aware I'm thinking that, and out of respect to her, I only say it with a smile in my heart.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    When I remembered it in September 1983 and confirmed December 1983, I have shared it with my friends when I felt it was interesting or informative to them.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I know what is real.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     My number wasn't up - not yet anyway.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No           				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1john_g_probable_nde.html