{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1john_fo_nde.html","mytitle":"John FO NDE 2095","mylang":"de"}
          	        John FO NDE 2095  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					John FO NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						563  John FO NDE  2095  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            Experience Description :   

  I accidentally took some drugs that I thought were sleeping pills but they were hard narcotics. As I was laying down I fell into a very deep-sleep type trance I felt my spirit leave my body. I rose to the top of the room and looked back at my body lying on my bed. Then my spirit went through the roof. I could see the top of my house. I went into space I could see the earth turning and the galaxies in the heavens. A presence engulfed my spirit. I felt at the time that it was God. He let me know that I could stay there or I could return to my body. I was young and in love, so I returned but I can say it was the most wonderful feeling. Hopefully, someday I will return to the spirit in the Heavens.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 summer 1969  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.  Accident       accidental overdose of drugs  Life threatening event, but not clinical death   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All of the experience.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Only the spirit I spoke of, I felt it's love and understanding.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Only the sprital place I spoke of.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt great joy and peace.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     I now know that a place after death does exist. A very beautiful place.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Christian  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     The spirit I encountered is much more loving than the one they preach about - I felt he would never think of excluding anyone.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   beliefs have changed  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     The spirit I encountered is much more loving than the one they preach about - I felt he would never think of excluding anyone.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Only that there is an afterlife.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No Not really I had the same problems as before and that everyone has.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It's hard to put in words. These feelings were different and contrary to anything I had ever heard or felt.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I feel that the true spirit or God if you will is nothing as the people of earth are taught. The spirit was loving and totally forgiving. I believe if he would accept me HE would accept anyone, no one is exempt from his love.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told some friends in 1969 But I haven't spoke of it in the last thirty years it seemed to turn people off and I didn't want to make them feel confused or strange.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It's been years and it's as fresh in my mind as it was thirty years ago.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     As I become older I feel that hopefully I'll return someday to the loving place of my experience.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?        You shouldn't ask questions just let the experiences be written.     			    			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1john_fo_nde.html