{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1john_f_nde.html","mytitle":"John F NDE 61","mylang":"de"}
          	        John F NDE 61  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					John F NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						171  John F NDE  61  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 While on duty in the United States Navy, I was munching on a hard-boiled egg and got choked.  I could only breathe in.  My lungs filled until they could fill no more.  I felt as though I could get the egg out of my mouth I might live.  I walked to a water fountain that was nearby and turned on the water.  I tried to drink and as the water touched my lips, I was shocked with 120 volts.  My immediate realization was that I had received an electrical shock, of which I certainly expected to survive.  I still experienced total breathing difficulties because of the egg lodged at my esophagus.  I cleared some of the egg with a finger, but I could not breathe.  I was experiencing some panic by this time and could think of no way to help myself survive this accident. I thought of my Lord and said to myself. "At least I am a Christian."


I looked into the adjoining room and saw my supervisor sitting in a swivel chair working on a radio message.  Realizing I could still walk, I did so until I reached his chair.  I could not speak so I used the last of my energy to kick his chair in order to get his attention. He was knocked to the floor and there he lay along with the typewriter.  I am on the floor near my supervisor as I fell also.


Another sailor by the name of Joe was watching my actions. I was now quiet and not breathing.  I was bleeding from the bridge of my nose, having struck the desk as I fell.  In moments, Joe began back pressure lifesaving methods on me.  This is now called CPR. Another sailor call an ambulance.


I was near the ceiling of this room watching the sailors doing things to save my life.  I was feeling just fine.  I realized that the unconscious body on the floor was mine but I had the least concern for it.  I was seeing myself as others had seen me.  There was no opposite reflection from looking into a mirror this time.  I felt good and energetic and soon lost any interest in watching the sailors working with my body.


I was in spirit form and yet I still felt alive, as I had been earlier.  I suppose I had expected to be dead but all this was so new to me.  I was learning this new life fast and without much concern for anything.  However, this new way of living had left me feeling puzzled.  For instance, when I would think of something, I did it automatically.  I looked at the wall near me and at the next moment, I was going through it.  I was back into the room where I had been sitting when I was choked.  I floated around this room at will.  I traveled through the many radios and teletype machines with no problem.


I saw a darkened area near my desk and I traveled to it.  The next thing I knew, I was entering this darkened mist.  Once inside I wanted out badly.  This thing was engulfing me. The feeling was that of being inside a person.  I felt alarmed and missed the free-floating spirit I was earlier.  Eventually, I was released from this squeezing and hot area.  It was as if I was inside a womb but how can this be imagined?


My next realization was that I was in a tunnel.  I estimate the size of this tunnel to be a diameter of six to seven feet. I could stand without touching the top.  My height was five foot ten inches.  Immediately I was hurling along the tunnel much faster than I wished.  The speed was tremendous.  I was scared. Somewhere along my journey in this tunnel, I slowed to a stop and a man calmed me and told me the trip was nearing an end. Away I went again at the same speed as before.  I do not know how I survived the trip.  The speed had to be at the speed of light or even faster. I felt no g-forces, only fear and the exhilaration of a terrible speed.  Finally, I stopped moving through the tunnel and had a good chance to look at it.  The tunnel looked like a large vent pipe used on clothes dryers.  The light was not primarily inside the tunnel but from the outside shinning in. During the trip inside the tunnel, I heard a loud buzzing sound, which hurt my ears.  I wondered what supported the tunnel.  Now I began walking looking for the ending of this tunnel. I was now into a much larger area and surrounded by a white mist and daylight.  The light I was seeing diminished all my fears of the tunnel.  I heard voices of people just outside this area.  The voices were encouraging me to come through the white mist.  I walked through the white mist and saw about a dozen people.  Instinct told me they were all man and wife. I had seen these people before but I could remember none of their names.  One man told me not to worry about not remembering any names.  Soon someone came for me.  The man was about twenty-seven years of age and he was wearing Levis and a white t-shirt.  The other twelve people were wearing white robes.  The man wearing the Levis explained to me that he was my guide.  He explained to me that later I would meet other people but he wanted me to walk with him to see this new place.


We walked through the most beautiful flower gardens I had ever seen.  I observed in detail the petals of the flowers. When viewing grass lawns I focused upon single blades of grass and marveled at the beauty of each blade.  This man and I communicated via thought transference as I had done with the group of twelve people.


I saw a city of large buildings in the distance.  The buildings were the color of gold and my guide told me they were gold.  My guide told me if I wished I could think of being closer to the city and I would be.  Sure enough, I thought of being closer and suddenly I was at the very edge of the golden city.  I saw little water falls in the flower gardens that were absolutely breath taking. I felt so good.


Later my guide turned me over to another man and this man explained to me that I would now go through my life's review. During this review which lasted about one second or less,  I saw all that I had previously seen while living on earth.  I relived every conversation I had had.  I saw each pet I had owned. I saw again each piece of clothing I had worn.  I relived every class I had attended in school.  I saw everything again.


It was here in this building, looking much like a library that my life's review ended.  It was here also that I learned that I would not be staying in this heavenly place.  I was so disappointed to learn I had to go back to earth.  I cried and cursed those around me.  My guide came for me and took me to see two schoolmates that had died four years earlier.


I was shocked to see them living.  On earth, they had been football placers in high school.  One day they were late for football practice and their coach had made them run laps around the field after practice.  This placed them into the dressing room long after the other players had left.  There was no hot water for showers.  The two sat waiting for the water heater to furnish hot water for their showers and were gassed to death by fumes that escaped from the natural gas water heater.  Ironically, one of the boy's dad was the plumber who installed the heater just days before and was coming back on another day to install the vent pipe to the outside of this new shower room.


I asked the two boys why they were here because each was supposed to be dead.  They explained to me that no one ever dies.  The two boys were about the same age as I had last seen them on earth.  Both appeared to be happy and content to be here.


My guide took me back to where I had my life's review. I asked once more if I could stay.  A man told me I had to return to earth to live out my life.  I remembered from my Sunday school classes that if a person ask to see the Lord, he shall see him.  I asked to see Jesus.  With my guide beside me, I walked or floated to a small stage.  My guide left me here.  I did not have to wait long before I heard a voice on this stage near where I stood.  A mist was forming on the stage and I heard a voice asking me if I could see him.  I could only see the mist and hear the voice.  The voice asked me to concentrate more and I would be able to see him.  Soon I saw Jesus standing in front of me. He asked me what I wanted of him.  I told him I had learned I would have to return to earth and I did not want to leave this Heavenly place.  He explained to me that I had not yet performed his wishes that he had set forth for me in my lifetime.  I asked him what some wishes of his were and he did not answer me. He said I would know at the right time, sometime in my future. He asked of other possible things he could do for me.  Since I was in the U S Navy at the time, I asked that he get me transferred to the state of Tennessee.  I explained to him that I had spent a month in this state as a boy of twelve and I wanted to return there because the state was beautiful.  He did not answer me.  I asked if he had considered it.  He told me that I only had to ask once and it would be done.  Jesus told me of many things I would experience in my lifetime. I only remember what he told me after I have experienced the event. He did tell me, and I remember this; to tell all people of my visit with him.  He implied into me to tell people that he is real. Another thing I will never forget is feeling the radiation of his love as he stood near me.  That was the most perfect love I have ever felt.  Jesus told me I would be escorted back to my home on earth soon.


Two men came for me and they explained they were my guardian angels.  One of the men had been my guide earlier. I do not remember coming back to earth through the tunnel. We traveled through the darkness of space.  On our way back to earth, we stopped for a talk.  One guardian angel told me that someday I would meet a lady and she would become my very close friend.  I was told that I would not meet her now, as she was still a very young girl.  This was 1957.  I have looked for her since then and think I have found her, but she lives in Australia.


I woke up sitting on an examination table in the hospital. I asked the three doctors if I had been given any medication that would make me believe I had died and gone to Heaven. They said no.  I said, "Well, I have just returned from Heaven." Two doctors immediately walked out and the remaining third doctor told me he just did not know what to think.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    summer of 1957

NDE Elements: 

  					At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident.    Clinical death choking on hard boiled egg  and  an electrical shock 120 volts from a water fountain which my doctors told me three days later had paralyzed my diaghram. Choking and Eletrocution.
  					
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I looked down at my body from the ceiling.  I saw my face for the first time straight on.  No mirror effect.  When I reached heaven I asked an old friend who had died four years earlier if I could smoke there.  He told me I could if I had any.  I reached for my shirt pocket and my hand went through my spiritual body.  No cigarettes and no pocket.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Perfect

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No   

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Music was in Heaven.  Before that I had a loud buzzing in my ears.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     A guide ussered me into the tunnel.  I did not like the tunnel at all.  The speed of myself  or spirit was so fast that I became scared and very discomfortable.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     One man inside the tunnel comforting me.  Twelve old people just on the other side of the mist at the end of the tunnel encouraging me to come through the mist.  Soon a guide came for me.  Two friend who had died on earth four years before.  The man who administered my life review.  A few men inside an outdoor library and Jesus.

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   The outside of the tunnl was lit.  The tunnel I was in looked like a plastic clothes drying vent which are attached to clothes dryers.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     My guide in Heaven gave me a tour.  I saw beautiful sloping valleys of green grass.  I could single out each blade of grass.  I saw flowers and the colors were not like what we see here on earth.  I saw dew drops on the flowers.  I heard music playing.  In the distance I saw a city that was of gold color.  My guide asked me if I wanted to see it up close.  I thought yes and immediately we were there near the city.  I was told it was made of gold.  All communication was of thought transference. All communication was of thought to another.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I am one who just has to know "why"  I loved the trip.  My emotions were somewhat sadden by the fact I had learned I was returning to earth. But I was taken on a tour of the place before learning I was returning. I was very very happy to be there.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     When I spoke with Jesus and felt his love radiating to me I knew once and for all that all I had been taught in Sundy school and church was absolutely true.  No doubt now.

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I relived my life in detail to it's fullest.  I learned two people had died in an automobile accident in which I was involved of which I had not known the outcome of the accident.  I was on a two lane highway and pulled out to pass a slow moving car.  I saw another car coming toward me and slowed to pull back into my orginal place and the car behind me was trying to take this space and ran off the road and hit a tree.  In my interview I saw it all and knew the two occupants of the car were killed. and the car behind me had started to take the place.  I made it into the space where I had been behind 

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     Jesus told me to reurn to my place on earth and tell all the people of this journey.  I knew I would.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   The man who administered my life's review was told by my guide and I learned it then.  I refused.  I cried.  I screamed.  I laid on the ground and screamed.  I just did not want to return to earth.  This is when I asked to see the Lord.  I was taken to an area like a stage and told to wait.  Soon Jesus appeared like a mist of white.  I heard his voice in this mist and soon I could see him.

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist   

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Now I know for sure Jesus is real.  No doubt.  Belief much greater than faith. When I returned from Heaven I started looking at the interest of others rather than my own.  I try to stay straight and pray for forgiviness for my sins.  I just have to get back to Heaven but the reward is being a good person for others as this reward is immediate.

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No   

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I have had a total of fifty or more psychic experiences since returning from Heaven.  Many are docummented.  I had psychic experiences before going to Heaven.  I have known things of the future and told many people they would happen and when they would happen.  These events are in a manuscript I have typed.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part of the experience was meeting Jesus and having a really good long talk.  You can't hold much back from him.  The thoughts entering your mind are conveyes to him.  He answers the same way.  I thought things to him which left me embarassed.  The worst part was learning I had to return to my body.  The trip through the tunnel was dreadfull.  I dread doing it the next time.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I started telling anyone who would listen.  I gave twenty-five talks at a community college to students.  I have had the opportunity to tell people near death.  I tell many people I meet on the internet.  Some people do not believe me.  Others are happy to learn of what I tell them. One man two weeks from death cried with happiness because I told him the NDE story and told me he knew it to be true because I was the one who told him.  I have told more than one thousand people since returning.  The percentage of people changing their lives is nill in my thinking.  Maybe I have helped some and do not know it.  I can honestly know I helped the one man who cried and died two weeks later.  Who, we here on Earth are to know what people secretly feel and think on this subject?

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I wish all people could make this trip.  What a beautiful world we would have to live in.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      I will give this some thought.  I will respond. Oh, what a vast and deep subject.

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1john_f_nde.html