{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1john_d_nde_6417.html","mytitle":"John D NDE 6417","mylang":"de"}
          	        John D NDE 6417  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					John D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3148 John D NDE 6417  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was shot and fell by the roots of a tree.  As I lay there, all grew quiet. I heard songbirds singing in the branches above me. I wondered where they came from because a battle usually ran off all wild life. I was at great peace and in no pain.  

Suddenly and without warning, my stomach had a cramp and I felt and heard a breath tearing into my lungs, which began to burn now. I looked down and could see my small intestines coming out of a hole in me. I quickly looked away again as this information was disturbing. I could not move after a while, not even move my eyes or close them. I heard a voice say ‘hey this one is still pumping out blood, is he alive then?’ Someone else pulled me on a stretcher and was running. 

I went into a dream; saw all but did not let it affect me I was at peace. I saw myself being put on a table and people were doing things to my body. I still was an observer only at this point. I heard someone say, ‘we are losing him’, and someone else said, ‘give him 2 cc of (something). 

Suddenly BANG, I was back in my pain-wrecked body again. I spoke, the surgeon said. ‘Be quiet we are fixing you. Go back to sleep.’ I took him at his word and fell asleep, waking a week later in Japan in one of the famous buildings there for the Vietnam wounded.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1965

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes      Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I was shot in the abdomen several times as a medic. I had a friend die in my hands and for reasons unknown to me I stood up in Battle.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was a level up from norm, nothing disturbed me, I was at peace

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As I lay floating over me.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Apples and oranges

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear the cosmos breathing.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   All was bright.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peaceful.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     The peace gave me all I needed.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Buddhist   none at the time

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Spiritualism: yes. Religious: NO

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       No comment   none really I embrace the cosmos as one

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     awakening

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Waking up to life.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   It was my voice.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     felt at one with all things and beings

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I was me still but a peaceful me and a knowing came with it. I felt at one with all things and beings.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     to learn and understand love

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I was me still but a peaceful me and a knowing came with it

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     love one another

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     got shot

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I knew I loved me

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Knowing without fear. Large changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I understand now, it bathes all my experiences with its light.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   getting shot is very powerful experence

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I know a person’s heart upon meeting with them.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of it was.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The next time I opened my eyes and saw someone there.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It has stayed with me as intensely as it started.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I knew I loved me. Love one another. We are all divine.  I had an awakening. Getting shot is a very powerful experience.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1john_d_nde_6417.html