{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1john_d_nde_4371.html","mytitle":"John D NDE 4371","mylang":"de"}
          	        John D NDE 4371  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					John D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2166 John D NDE 4371  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I came to on the shoulder of the oncoming traffic, and I was headed for a deep ditch. I over corrected and was sideways in the gravel. I could feel the tires starting to give way, knew I was going to roll, and yelled, 'OH GOD!' two or three times then there was a bang. Everything stopped.

I was totally conscious, but didn't know where I was, totally void of light yet I could still see - I was aware of myself and I don't remember having a body, just a consciousness. I looked around or at the darkness; it was right in front of me and far away.  Then it was like looking at a black canvass with no beginning or end and it was silent, at first. Then sounds I really can't explain, I became aware of presences, coupled with the darkness becoming textured and streaked with ashen grays and a burning, scraping sound. I heard screaming and crying. I never saw what was causing it but with each streak I became more terrified and knew I wasn't in a good place, and whatever was trying to come 'through' the darkness, meant to do me harm. I felt like I was surrounded by the darkness but not IN the darkness yet. I know that I realized I wanted to leave and never be here again! 

I believe that I was at the Devil's doorstep. I think I was given a brief look at where my current path was leading me and that I was literally smacked in the head by GOD himself to get my attention and get back on the right path. It really can't be given justice through words, not even a picture could communicate it. I did my best to explain it but when I read it, it just doesn't convey what it was like, not even a little bit.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'December 15, 1997'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident. Direct head injury    Other 'Severe Head trauma, vehicle rollover. Unconscious, Don't know how long.'  I fell asleep while driving and was in a rollover accident, don't know how many times I rolled the truck. I had a head trauma and was unconscious. Don't have any idea how long. I was in and out of consciousness until the next morning. The accident occurred about 5:00 pm.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Time? Although time passed here. Where I was, I didn't really notice it. The whole thing might have lasted two seconds, maybe twenty minutes. It kind of happened all at once and real slow all at the same time. When the darkness became textured and I could feel the presences that made the grey streaks, I became fully aware and conscious that I was in trouble.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Again, it was like I was surrounded by the darkness, but I could see as if there was light. This darkness wasn't an absence of light it was more of, I don't know, it wasn't the dark of night that one is different. Time wasn't something I noticed.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Now that I think about it, it was like I could see everywhere, 360 degrees but didn't have to turn to look. It all looked like that textured darkness and as I have been recalling all of this, I felt as if maybe I was upside down and right side up at the same time. The ability to see in total darkness and the only colors were the 'black' of the darkness and the shades of grey streaks, Ash is the best description.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I really can't identify the sounds so I am not sure. I do remember it being like the sound wasn't really 'heard' as much as it was experienced - like it was in me, a part of me, maybe. Like when you put ear on the piano or a guitar and feel the sound.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Bewilderment at first, after that, I really only remember the terror. I felt pure dread and complete terror, the kind when you can't scream.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Only that if I continued down the path I was on, I would be back to this place, and it wasn't Heaven.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     The dark was like a boundary, only not. I don't remember moving only seeing everything, in every direction. It all looked the same, until the streaks started. The boundary was the darkness I don't think I could have crossed it if I tried. I just knew I didn't want the being on the other side to get through to me.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   'Believer, not a follower. Christian/none'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Christianity/no denomination

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I no longer am involved in the things or with the people on the bad path. My wife and I are stronger and have a wonderful marriage. I choose very carefully, my friends.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Everything. The look, feel, the silence, and then the sound. Just can't explain well enough to convey what it was like. No picture could do it justice.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I don't want to go to any other place than Heaven. I got a glimpse of somewhere that wasn't Heaven. I don't know where it was I just know I don't want to go back.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Years, and the initial reaction was the same - Were you DEAD?! No one has ever told me that my story influenced them. I have only told maybe six people about that story in detail.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Never really considered an NDE - just a vision. Now I know different. I never dismissed the idea but not sure if I was a believer of NDEs.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The reality of it has never changed. From the moment I knew it was real inside of it, it has steadfastly remained so.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     See above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Anyone else have anything similar to my story? I hear about the light and tunnel a lot but seldom about the other direction.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1john_d_nde_4371.html