{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1john_d_nde.html","mytitle":"John D NDE 2857","mylang":"de"}
          	        John D NDE 2857  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					John D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						985  John D NDE  2857  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I awoke one night feeling utterly dehydrated. I got up to go the kitchen and it seemed that with each step I saw flashes of red. I made it to the kitchen and noticed that the clock read one in the morning. I suddenly realized that I was dying and became very frightened and I remember saying, 'Please God, no.'

I remember falling against the refrigerator and then against the stove. I immediately saw my body lying on the floor. I was not afraid and was curious at best.

Everything seemed to happen at the same time. It seemed as if the house had no roof, I kept rising and my body became smaller. I wanted to say goodbye to my parents and my brother but realized that it was not important, that everything we consider such a trial on Earth is so trivial that it is laughable. I could hear what I can only describe as a combination of music and singing, it was the most beautiful music that I have ever heard. It seemed as if I had complete knowledge of the universe. I can't even explain how wonderful I felt, words can do no justice to that feeling.

All of a sudden, I returned to my body and got up. I was very angry that I came back. I looked at the kitchen clock and saw that it was now four in the morning. In what seemed nanoseconds, three hours had elapsed.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 May, 1963  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness        Other Raging fever  My fever was intense. After my NDE, I felt better. The next day my mother brought me to the doctor and my fever was still 105 degrees.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I really can't explain it. It was the most intense experience of my life. I was never so alert before or after my experience.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Towards the end when I felt I had complete knowledge of the universe.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     Time did not exist.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The 'music' I heard was around and in me. It was as if it were vibrating.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Exhilarated.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Atheist  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I was raised as a Lutheran but have no use for organized religion. I now consider myself a Spiritualist.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Spiritualist  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I was raised as a Lutheran but have no use for organized religion. I now consider myself a Spiritualist.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   All the knowledge that I gained through the experience disappeared when I returned to my body.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No I have always tried to be decent to others but perhaps more so after my experience.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Although I was a sensitive before the event, I have had visions that saved my life during the war (Vietnam) and sometimes deceased friends will contact me while I am in a 'dream' state.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        There is an existence beyond this and death is not to be feared. I realized that the universe, all matter seen and unseen, is part of the Great Creator or Divine Intelligence if you will.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Thirty years ago. Some or perhaps many consider me odd. Others have had paranormal experiences and are more likely to accept it. I really don't know if any of them were influenced by my experience.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was mystified by it and it was not until years later when I begin reading heavily on the paranormal that I realized I was not 'delusional', that many others had experienced the same thing.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I now realize that there is a purpose to life, the whys and wherefores are significant and deal with the progression of the spirit.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Not really.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1john_d_nde.html