{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1john_c_sobe.html","mytitle":"John C SOBE 3526","mylang":"de"}
          	        John C SOBE 3526  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					John C SOBE   					  					  						Home  						Classification SOBE  						1560 John C SOBE 3526  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was viewing it from the side.  I was walking with my parents, alongside a pool.  I had slipped into the pool.  I was first viewing the scene like I was watching it from the opposite side of the pool.  Then I had fallen into the pool.  

When I fell in, I started to close into myself, viewing it as if I was using a grappling hook to see the scene.  As soon as I had lost consciousness, I had viewed the lifeguard's view, in both third and first person, and as I had gotten up, I regained consciousness.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'Unknown, approx 1996'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    I had fallen into a pool.  Other Drowning  I had fallen into a pool and was drowning.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I started off at a curious state, I was outside of myself, it's almost as if, I viewed myself as if I was looking into the past.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I was outside of myself, an invisible bystander.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It felt almost as at the beginning, it was having it seem almost as if myself and parents where blocking out the sun.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't even know if I could even hear, I could have possibly even been deaf, or there was a barrier of sound from where I was.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The way i was veiwing it before i fell, was buitiful the way the sun looked as I and my parents partially blocked it out of view

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I do not have a way to explain it. It's almost as if there was a whole new emotion, I was just viewing it, silently.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   'I was quite young, Im guessing only about 3, I had learned a very small amount about Jesus And God at the time'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   I am quite knowledgeable about the Christian religion in which I have set forth upon myself. I have Much knowledge about Jesus Christ and God

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes As I got older, I soon taught myself to swim in that pool.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   I remember it only in a third person view, almost like the film feature in 'Halo 3'.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Soon, as I got older, I had taught myself to swim in that very pool, and oddly, I would often be around in the area which I had first started to drown in.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The fact that I was outside of myself, I viewed it in a different view, than I have heard of, and it was, I never saw myself fall and drown in my own view. As soon as it was going to be, I viewed it from a different position.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The experience happened, almost as if I was taken out of my body, to watch what was going to happen.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I am wishing that I could go back and slowly, review the whole experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   The feeling of sadness, and need to read up on the afterlife and death.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No, although, If you would like, please email me if you would like to know of an NDE that my father had experienced one time.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Possibly, allowing a way to find out whether or not a similar NDE has happened after submission.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1john_c_sobe.html