{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1john_c_nde_313.html","mytitle":"John C NDE 313","mylang":"de"}
          	        John C NDE 313  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					John C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1371 John C NDE 313  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was having a 'simple knee surgery.' I was in recovery when I opened my eyes and remember I was not breathing. Next my doctor was leaning over me and yelling, 'Breathe, damn it, breathe!' I could not and started to lose consciousness, and then instantaneously I blacked out. Then I began to rise above my body. I was very much aware of what was going on. I had my back to the light and I felt such peace. I heard them call the code blue I watched as they tried to resuscitate me.

I remember, I can't describe it well, I guess like I was in a fourth dimension. I could see my hands and feet everything was so perfect. Then I heard a voice, but not audible, and said, 'It is not your time yet my son. You must go back. I have things for you to do.' My feelings were I wanted to stay. Then like zap, I was like sucked back into my body and awoke as the doctor pounded on my chest. Pure Love. I had an OBE in July of this year twice but was not exactly the same.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  10/28/81

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Surgery-related    Clinical death   Sometime later my doctor said I had heart and respiratory failure.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  See main narrative.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Like I have never known.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I heard a voice.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It came from behind me.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Just such peace and Love.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     My spiritual path, I became an ordained minister and laid hands on many people and they were healed, some not though. More were healed.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I begged to go to the light and I was told not yet I had things to do.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Roman Catholic

What is your religion now?       Liberal   I do not have a religion at this time

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am not afraid to die. I became more spiritual and had a quest for knowledge.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     The healing and seem to draw people to God and just seem to know things.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        A few years ago, when my father passed to the other side as I call it, I met two individuals like angels in bodies and they told me it happened to them and I was to continue on my path of telling others.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I was told to tell others that God exists.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   The two OBEs in July of this year.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Not at this time except I am positive God exists.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1john_c_nde_313.html