{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1john_c_nde_2926.html","mytitle":"John C NDE 2926","mylang":"de"}
          	        John C NDE 2926  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					John C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1019  John C NDE  2926  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  				  I had gone with my dad to pick up my car at this motel where I had lent it to a person I knew hoping to sell it. I had picked up the car and my dad took off in his car. I pulled out of the parking lot and my car stalled in the south bound lane. I took off my seat belt and was about to turn on the emergency flashers when this old 1968 Impala broadsided my 1973 Ford Pinto on the driver's side. I heard he was going about forty-five miles an hour when he hit me. I was thrown out of the car and onto the pavement. I was gasping for air and I guess somebody called the ambulance, which took me to the emergency room at Bass Baptist Hospital.  					

  					  I was taken in when I lost consciousness and found myself hovering near the ceiling looking down at my body on the table below. I saw the doctors using the paddles trying to revive me. I was then pulled down this strange tunnel and into this brightly lit area where four men dressed in white robes were and they were all white looking. One came towards me and I glided over to another room where this being (I know it was God) was seated on a throne. This very bright light was streaming out from him, I could only make him out for an instant, and he had long hair and a beard. The light was intense and I could feel that he was concerned for me and I could feel a lot of love the likes of which I haven't felt before and I felt he had great compassion for me and had knowledge about everything that had been and whatever was to be. I saw gold streaking with the bright white light also and knew all wealth comes from him too. It seems like I was with him for about three minutes and then I was glided back over to the four gentlemen who were by this very tall white fence. One of them then told me it was not my time yet and before I could tell them that I didn't want to go back here, I was in my body in the hospital gasping and choking with this tube in my throat. The nurse came over and removed the tube and I told her I was hungry. She gave me an injection in my IV and the next day I found I was out for three days.  			      

The days that followed, I had some insight and gifts I hadn't had before. It seemed I could almost tell what people were up to and feeling. I also had visions of things to come. I had a vision two weeks before the space shuttle Challenger blew up. I saw a white light around my dad two weeks before he died. I asked God at one point to take these gifts from me because they were too upsetting for me. I haven't had too many visions since I asked him this.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1982  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident         Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I thought after the experience that the wreck might have been an attempt on my life.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   When I was before God's throne.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was before God's throne.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was bright where I was, but no sunlight just the light of God.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A strange looking tunnel.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     When I got out of the tunnel these four men who were all white complete with white robes. And God on his throne.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Bright place with the light of this being (God).  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love and understanding.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From the world's future   

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I used to be liberal. Now I'm adopting more conservative Christian values.  

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I used to be liberal. Now I'm adopting more conservative Christian values.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   After I left the hospital.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Want more to do with Godly people.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I know now that there is a God and he is Love.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew that there was a God and he can do miracles.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1john_c_nde_2926.html