{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1john_c_nde_149.html","mytitle":"John C NDE 149","mylang":"de"}
          	        John C NDE 149  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					John C NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1451 John C NDE 149  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was undergoing surgery to remove a tumor from my right adrenaline gland shortly after my eighteenth birthday. During the surgery, my heart stopped and I guess it was during this time that I left my body.

  I was floating above my body in the operating room and saw the doctors working to revive me. I then left the operating room and saw my mother and my aunt in the waiting room crying. Next, I was in a tunnel or hallway that was dark. As I began to walk toward the light at one end, I began experiencing an indescribable sense of Joy and peace, as I got closer to the light. When I got nearer the light, I was nearly blinded by its brightness. But I still wanted to get closer, to walk into it further. Then I heard a voice telling me that I had to go back I could not be here yet. I didn't want to go back and hesitated because I didn't want to leave. I felt so much Joy, Love and Peace completely void of fear, doubt and all sense of negative human feelings and emotions. I wanted to keep feeling that way and had a sense that it was just the beginning of forever and there was more to experience. But, the voice spoke to me again (it was the most incredible voice and I wanted to see whose it was) telling me again to go back.

  I knew that I had to obey, so I turned and began walking back. I retraced my steps and woke up a couple of days later in intensive care. When I described what happened to me and the setting of the operating room, it was exactly as I described even though I was unconscious when I entered the room I was able to describe every detail as I saw it in my spiritual state.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  October 1976

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    Clinical death   My heart stopped during surgery.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was translucent.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Unconscious during surgery.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I had a sense that time had no meaning or purpose.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Seemed like a tunnel, like a large storm culvert.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I didn't see anyone but I spoke to someone, as I have already described.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   There was a light at one end. The light got brighter than anything that I have ever seen.  It had a glowing quality to it.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Sorrow at first seeing my mother cry, then joy and peace.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   My emotions upon knowing that I had to return were of regret and disappointment that I could not stay.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Roman Catholic at time of experience

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Christian attend a bible church

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I lived my life more fully after the experience and I have no fear of death; though I want to live I look forward to returning to the place I was at one day and completing my experience.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   The feelings of Joy and Peace that I had during the experience are hard to describe in words. The out of body experience is hard to describe especially the viewing of my own earthly body as the doctors worked to save my life.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The feeling of Joy and Peace that really can't be described.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Astonishment, and at times disbelief. Most people don't know what to say.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I wish everyone could have one it would be a better world.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1john_c_nde_149.html