{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1john_b_fde.html","mytitle":"John B FDE 9426","mylang":"de"}
          	        John B FDE 9426  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					John B FDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification FDE  						5057 John B FDE 9426  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I was driving alone when, without forewarning, I fell asleep at the wheel. The car changed lane and then stopped with the left wheels in a small ditch. I awakened with the car out of control (being off the road).

  Nobody got hurt and the car had only a small mechanical damage. 

  It wasn’t I life-threatening experience, but a perceived one. I can’t tell when the NDE took place but after the accident I had this vivid memory of something unbelievable. I wasn’t inside the car anymore, the time was frozen or didn’t exist, I felt complete calm, peace and lucidity. I was only “consciousness”: I didn’t see anything, I was in another dimension, I experienced only feelings and thoughts. In that moment I realized the end of my life without any drama, without any regrets, with total acceptance and serenity. I was somewhat amused, thinking “WTF! Who would have thought that I would die at 44, away from home, in such a silly way?”. I was recognizing my death as a total natural and ordinary passage, that life ended but “I” was still there ready for something else. In that peace the only painful thought was about my dear ones and how they would face my loss.

  So I feel I experienced death without

 dying. And it was No different losing one life in a videogame.  The scientists often try to explain NDEs as a consequence of brain functional changes that occurs during the dying process. My brain wasn't in critical condition, I wasn’t dying and I nevertheless experienced a NDE, so I think there is more than that.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 18 June 2022  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident         Other Fallen asleep at the wheel  Maybe perceived life-threatening  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Everything right as it is, under control, nothing need alertness  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Allways  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time stopped or lost all meaning  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       No  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     No vision only feelings and thoughts  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No hearing only feelings and thoughts  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was only consciousness, in an alternative dimension  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Total peace and calm  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     No need to understand  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of No return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic.   Catholic interested in Buddhism  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain       

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic.   Catholic interested in Buddhism  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience       

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     No specific perception but a feeling of unity  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     I knew my life was ended but I was still there, ready for whatever was next. In peace. Without fears or hopes.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life       

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The same day  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   My mother told me of a OBE while under surgery 50 years ago  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No           				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1john_b_fde.html