{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1john_b_nde_490.html","mytitle":"John B NDE 490","mylang":"de"}
          	        John B NDE 490  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					John B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1277 John B NDE 490  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					IMy experience starts with returning from camping and breaking up with a girlfriend. I stopped at a friend's house on the way back and she was there making the situation uncomfortable for me so I told my buddy that was riding with me all weekend to stay here, I was going to the store to get a pack of cigs. He was insisting on going with me. But after much convincing, he stayed. On my way back, I was stopped at a 'T' intersection waiting to make a left turn on to San Miguel Canyon road from Hall Road, which would represent the top of the 'T' as Hall Road. When it was clear to go, I started to proceed through the turn when a car that was speeding eighty-plus miles per hour hit me broadside and my head struck the metal steering wheel and collapsed it at the top of the column. I couldn't steer very well and the car kept going down into this field. Now I could see smoke and flames in my rearview mirror and I knew I had to get out. So, with no strength in my body, I managed to open my door and let myself fall out. It was good thing I wasn't wearing a seat belt or I wouldn't be writing this. I lay in the field and watched my car continue and stop in a circle, it was burning from the trunk. Two minor explosions happened and then a huge one that shot flames over my head, then the car continued to burn. I got up out of the field and walked back up to the road and the median I drove over.

The owner of the other car was standing there with his lady friend and yelling at me with not a scratch on him. At this point, I collapsed on the median. A nurse going on duty to the hospital saw me fall and got me an ambulance. I do remember getting loaded into the ambulance, but nothing else until we arrived at the hospital. I remember the lights zooming over my head as they rushed me in and as soon as they stopped in a room.

I said, 'Watch out! Here I go!' and I started out of my body. I just rose up with an image of my back to the ceiling and the doctors saying we lost him. I could see them scrambling around me. Then I went even higher up and could see my dad sitting in the hallway outside the room. (Evidently, they had called him and I wasn't going to make it.) As he was sitting there, he was trying to light his pipe in the hospital.  A nurse came over and was shaking her finger for him to put it out. He stuck his finger in the pipe and put it in his pocket. I thought, 'Now dad, you can't light a pipe in a hospital you know better than that.' I was going to tell him so when I got back. Then I felt a force pulling at me and I started to accelerate smoothly but very rapidly. There was no light yet, it was still dark. Then I was moving at a light speed it seemed and flashes of light were moving past me in brilliant colors, it was like a kaleidoscope around me.

Then I saw a small dot of light that was getting closer and closer until the dot expanded into a room on the other side. There were no walls to speak of and there was other activity going on behind these glowing human figures that were hooded. I couldn't make out facial features but saw a silhouette of them. There was an unusual light everywhere that seemed to come from no direct source. We (me and the five of them) started to communicate without verbal speech. I felt as though I was plugged into everything and could see and hear through my consciousness. Then they asked me if I want to stay or return. I immediately said I want to go back. That I would do whatever they wanted me to do, just so I could return. I wasn't fearful at all, in fact I never felt so wonderful before, but I just thought I should go back and do work for these guys.

At this point, I was seemingly downloaded with all this awareness and knowledge. I felt so aware of every aspect of life and death or, as I call it the dimensional move, and all this time I'm not aware of time as though it didn't matter, but it felt like a very long time. Then I was sent back and started to move back through the tunnel. Then time seemed to take effect again. I was accelerating again and the trip wasn't as long. Then I saw the doctors over me and they were shaking their heads 'no' and looking down. My dad just over the wall had his head in his hands. Then I thought, 'Hey guys I'm back,' and I slowly lowered myself back into my body as if I was laying back down into it.

Next thing I heard was, 'We have a pulse. We have a pulse.' Now I could see the lights and then the doctors. They asked me if I could hear them and I said yes. My dad came rushing in and hugged me. I said, 'Dad, I died.' The doctor asked, 'How could you know that?' I said, 'I also saw you dad, trying to light your pipe.' He turned a funny color and said, 'That's amazing.' Now my work was to start for the guys up there. I have much more to tell about the lives I save and other strange happenings that go on to this day.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  DEC 1978

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  AUTO ACCIDENT  Clinical death APPROX.4 MIN ACCORDING TO DOCTORS WHEN I RETURNED  Severe auto accident involving high speed and explosion of my auto.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Refer to previous notes.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Nothing, no sound didn't need it.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Immense love and joy.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       All questions about before the story.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1john_b_nde_490.html