{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1john_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"John Possible NDE 8169","mylang":"de"}
          	        John Possible NDE 8169  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					John Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  						4264 John Possible NDE 8169  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had  knee surgery, where the doctors replaced a small knee insert with a complete part. The operation took five hours and I was under a general anesthesia.  The day after the operation, I developed a high temperature and then the experience occurred. I knew I was dying but also realised that the frantic activity of the nursing staff somewhere in the background could bring me back. 

  				    Have you ever seen a murmuration of starlings? Watch https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M1Q-EbX6dso I felt like one of the starlings, but they weren't starlings in the video. But rather than starlings,  they were every living creature including humans. There I was. We danced and flew in the air just like the starlings in the video. Joy, tremendous joy and happiness, coursed through us as  we sang and chanted a great hymn together. I was so happy that I felt I wanted to burst! We flew together in this amazing dance towards a great opening that looked like an atomic reactor cooler on its side. 

  				    The Light was so intense  as it streamed out of the tube towards us. It  filled me again and again with longing to go inside the great opening. I thought, 'I am a child of this light'. We all headed towards it, sometimes slowly and sometimes frantically, dancing and singing with a joy that only a mega-win on the lottery would bring. The Light  filled us all.  For not only was I filled with this peace and joy but so was every other creature.  I knew that; and they knew that I too, was in that state.  A 'shared state of existence' is not adequate to describe it. We were each other; there was no ground and no air, only space. We flew in great, whirling spirals of cloud. The sound of our hymn rang out out across the world as sad people across the globe looked up and wondered. 

  				    I was about to enter into the light when I felt a nurse put a ice pack on my head and start up the fan. Then I was back once more in the hospital room. The intense joy ebbed away slowly during the night, but enough remains still to sustain me in those bad black hours of the night when the pain is at its most intense. I KNOW I will return to the Light.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  03/03/2015

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related.       Life threatening event, but not clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I could dimly detect nurses and doctors in my hospital room and could feel their anxiety. For myself, I had no anxiety. I  was just in supreme joy.   I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   It was at such a high intensity, and no other thoughts were in my mind other than the joy of just being

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       From the start of the experience to the 'ice-pack' the nurse put on me.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I can't. I saw everywhere and through everything

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was heightened to hear a register of high-pitch sounds and other sounds I don't normally hear

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was ahead of me and yet I felt it was part of me. I knew that I was a child of the light

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place.     In space heading in a spiral with millions of other creatures towards a great tunnel

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Joy, excitement bonding, at one with every living creature

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life.   There was no option and no sadness. I just did what was required of me. By whom or what I do not know.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   Broad church

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   Sincere belief

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I was surprised at how every living thing had a soul. I had thought that the journey to the next life was solely a human journey

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes.     I'm not going to expand on this  because my values and beliefs are too personal

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     All around me were plants, fungi, birds, humans and life of every sort. We sang together afreat hymn praising the life force that inhabited us all

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Unknown

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     That life experience was tiring,  painful, and there was a better life that lays ahead.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Every living thing loved me and I them

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   I was moving at speed

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.   It seemed more real, than my actual existence

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    2 weeks  after the experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   My friend had had a NDE.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1john_possible_nde.html