{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1johan_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Johan C NDE 4945","mylang":"de"}
          	        Johan C NDE 4945  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Johan C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2539 Johan C NDE 4945  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in a very weak state later described by the medical staff in layman's terms of a 'walking coma'. Except for this event, I have little recall of a four to five month time period. I was watching TV and the room/world went silent and dark with my eyes wide open. Time ceased. No pain at all or sense of environment. 

Except for my mind's eye, all senses were gone. It was very black and not the least bit frightening, a very calm transition. I knew what was happening and it was fine. I honestly wanted to see where this journey led me. If one can imagine oneself in the absolute void of space this was it. Then I saw the twinkling of lights. I sensed from deep within something like 'Are you sure?' With that conscious thought, I decided I wanted to live and the battle was on. Death did not wish to let me go and that's when the experience devolved.  I can only describe the experience as what someone might have on a bad acid trip. 

The next moment, a team of doctors and nurses back here attended to me. I had not moved.

I wrote the experience off as a bad dream or a nightmare. After speaking with the psychologist at the hospital several things were pointed out to me including the fact I dream in black and white and this event was in Technicolor. I now have absolutely no fear of death only the pain associated with it.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Oct 2009

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Illness    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I had a complete collapse of my digestive system due to a string of inter-related events nudged by an e-coli infection - shutting down of pancreas, kidneys, liver resulting in ammonia poisoning.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       There was no time. According to the doctors, it was very brief. If I understand the question, my alter-consciousness would have been the time when I saw the lights.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was none. I could not tell you (if I hadn't been told) how long the experience lasted.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I didn't have vision. Much clearer than a dream but without the benefit of our five senses.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was no sound.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain

The experience included:       Void

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   Not as others have described. It was a blackness at first then star-like objects. Very cool and something I wish could be captured and shared.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     No dimensions at all.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calm. Never worried. It was a day/night experience in the sense that all was well until I fought it.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I had zero sense that I even used to have a body or past events. I did not see others or myself. I had no sense of a God or evil so I now question those postulations.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Extraordinary and I never connected the NDE with that until I read it here.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Catholic school (1-6) A lot of questions after this event

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I seriously question if there is a God.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Absolutely unsure in the religious aspect of death

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I seriously question if there is a God.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I haven't thought of it that way. The fact I did not feel pain or memories, no life flashing before my eyes, probably has a lot to do with that.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Simply stated, the human mind has no concept or words to accurately describe what I experienced.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I did not expect this question and I'm now stunned. There is NO question that something about my mind has changed. No question. I can now focus more than I've ever been able. I've kept a lot of all this to myself for reasons that might make sense to you - when you tell people this you get one of two responses; It was a dream/nightmare or what's death like? I don't want to ruin expectations nor argue my experience. I need to think about this question some more.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Only one - I've been to the other side and it's going to be neat the next time around.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    A day or so after the event with the doctors. Only two other people. See the question above.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The experience is burned into my brain. It will never be forgotten and quite possibly remembered the next time. I think about it constantly. I want to go back (the mind I had during the experience) but am thinking my mind (here) will react the same way the next time. Only time will tell.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Above answer should cover both.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       For a year this has been bugging me. I started to write to exercise my mind back from the illness and hoped to someday be able to share with others what this was like. It's impossible.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Nothing I haven't mentioned. Thanks for letting me 'vent'.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1johan_c_nde.html