{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1joelle_l_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Joelle L Possible NDE 3911","mylang":"de"}
          	        Joelle L Possible NDE 3911  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Joelle L Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			1853 Joelle L Possible NDE 3911  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I remember being somewhere where it was very bright. There were others with me. I think like three or four others. We were in a group. There were others, I sensed them but I could not see them. The ones I saw are funny. It seemed like all I saw of them were heads and small wings. We communicated mentally only. I heard farther away someone saying, 'There is a body available, but you must act quick.' I said, 'I'll go.' But one of the others close to me said, 'No it's too soon for you.' I said. 'I don't care I want to go.' They said, 'You must go now or it will be too late.' Next thing I remember is being in a crib. This person was looking at me, talking, and smiling. Later I could remember being somewhere inside a wrapping of sorts I would reach to touch it but I couldn't seem to reach it. It was comfortable. Then I would be scared, like claustrophobic. Since then many things have happened. I remember three past lives. And since 2003 I've been getting visions etc.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  3/05/50

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Childbirth    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I was born breech at home after hours of labor. When I finally was born, I was almost black/blue and not breathing. They wrapped me up and put me on the table. A while later, the midwife came.  She worked and worked on me and I finally started to breathe.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I can totally recall my last death and then it jumps to where I'm with others there.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time seems to slow down there.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything seemed brighter like colors were brighter feelings were more sensitive. And the connection with others was better and clearer.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Like I said we connected mentally only. My feelings sensitivities were much higher. When I remember something about my experience, it is the pictures and very strong feelings, no words.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     When I died last time I remember it was raining and the rain was getting on my face, I was afraid. Then I saw the stars they were so beautiful. Then I realized how could I see stars in the rain? But right then the stars were spinning and looked so pretty I tried to reach for them and they spun into a tunnel and that's the last I remember of that life.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I don't remember until I was with those other beings. But now I know where I was, from my visions I now know we rest, sleep whatever you want to call it to get over the life trauma.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Stars turned into a beautiful glowing tunnel.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Ive been to the other side a few times with my visions, What I see is a small totally white room. When you step into it all you see on both sides are a white wall. If you look straight there is a window there that is open and blowing a sheer curtain. And the smell is so fresh. Then look far to your left on the left wall you see a door opening. If you look through it there is a large field with beautiful flowers and flowing grass. and right in front about 10 feet away is a tree looks something between a weeping willow and an apple tree.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calmness at times, anxiety to come back.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I was shown the Pope's death, the angels and the whole big think about it. They showed me that field after the tsunami.  There were so many people they looked so lost. They told me many guides were called to help. What I won't forget is when I was watching this with them they said look over there. I turned and saw this man He looked so kind. They said even the son is here to help them. As he said that, the man turned to me and smiled. He had the most wonderful smile.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Family strict Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I cherish my family. But I don't go to church anymore, I feel God loves us no matter what and he prefers us to do good than go to church one day a week.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I cherish my family. But I don't go to church anymore, I feel God loves us no matter what and he prefers us to do good than go to church one day a week.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   When the visions first started I was told to go out and reassure people about this, tell them God is loving and kind, also we are all one with God.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I don't judge people and I feel everyone is part of me. Also when I worked as a nurse I told some of the dying some of my experiences and helped them move on without fear and that's the whole purpose of this experience.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Throughout my childhood the memories would mix me up, and my family kept telling me to be quiet. Only one aunt who lived with us encouraged me to talk about it only to her. I remember everything thanks to her letting me talk about it.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Ever since I was little I saw things no one else saw. I sometimes know when someone is going to die. I don't call them gifts, they scared me to death as a child, and now it just makes me sad.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Well from all my experiences, which are too lengthy to talk about, I am definitely NOT afraid to die. To me, if you asked my biography I would go backwards.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told one friend only, and my aunt who has since passed away. I would be afraid to talk about it since people would probably think I'm nuts. It's just something I live with.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real      In 1981 was when I first found out about my birth, and that's when I started putting two and two together. It explained a lot.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Because there is no way all the things that happened to me since my birth, even before I could think clearly, were made up. For a period of ten years I closed my mind to all of it denying it happened, and it still came back.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       My experiences give me mixed feelings. When they first started, they were racing it was too much to take. I had to say slow down you are overwhelming me. I still am trying to find purpose in this. There is so much to say, I just can't type it. It's easier to talk. I have experiences and more experiences.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1joelle_l_possible_nde.html