{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1joe_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Joe M NDE 5180","mylang":"de"}
          	        Joe M NDE 5180  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Joe M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2701 Joe M NDE 5180  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I have to first describe the circumstances leading up to the experiences. I was wrestling in the water of the local 'Young Men's Christian Association' (YMCA) swimming pool. He, my friend, managed to pull me under and get on top of me. Normally this wouldn't have been a problem but he happened to catch me just as I had exhaled so I had no air in my lungs to fight back with. He didn't realize I was in trouble, he just assumed that my struggling, was me trying to flip him in turn. I was in panic mode trying to get out from under him. Then I could hold my breath no longer and reflexively took in a long deep breath. The breath was water however, not air. Surprisingly this did not hurt.

All of a sudden, a deep peace filled me unlike anything I've felt before or since (even when I was doing drugs). This is the hard part to describe, a darkness, pitch black, 'enveloped' me at the same time but 'enveloped' is only as close as I can get to explaining it. It wasn't scary. It was warm, comforting and safe, safer than I've ever felt before. The next thing I remember watching the lifeguard giving me mouth to mouth to revive me. I wasn't floating above the scene as some people describe, I was watching it as if I were kneeling right next to them. 

I couldn't figure out what was going on. I didn't know why he was kissing me. Although I knew that that was me on the tiled floor I didn't realize until much later that I was watching myself. I didn't realize that I was separated from my myself.

The next thing I know I'm gasping desperately for air and thrashing about violently at the lifeguard as if I'm still drowning. After I calmed down the memory of the peaceful darkness came back to me. The out of body experience, if that is what it was, didn't come back until years later when I was recounting the drowning to a friend. Because of that lapse of time I question whether it actually happened or is something my mind has made up.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  July 1981

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I drowned in a swimming pool.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       If I understand the question properly I'd say my highest level of consciousness was when I was/had drowned. I can remember the feeling of breathing in water and the peaceful darkness that overcame me vividly. I would say the out of body experience was less because I didn't realize it was happening at the time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Intense peace and safety. Confusion during the out of body experience.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I'm not afraid of strangers killing me. I feel envious of dying people because they are going to the place I'd like to return to.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Difficult to describe the darkness and how it felt.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I realized afterwards that death doesn't hurt.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Don't understand the question.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I definitely believe the peacefulness and darkness happened because the feeling was too vivid and I immediately remembered it afterwards. I can still sometimes get a hint of it if I focus hard enough. The OBE I still question but, despite that, that memory is pretty vivid as well, leading me to believe it really happened.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No. It was good.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1joe_m_nde.html