{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1joe_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Joe J NDE 6290","mylang":"de"}
          	        Joe J NDE 6290  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Joe J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3052 Joe J NDE 6290  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					When I hit the floor I was blank for a few moments, then 2 small transparent or glowing entities came into my room.  At the time, I was out of body. They were very friendly and they took my hand one on one.  We walked through the wall but were not touching the floor. We went above my house and I could see all around and down at my house. They talked to me for short time but don't remember what they said. Then I remembered my sister was at a Halloween party and all of a sudden, I was there; I saw everything she was doing. After that, I was under my favorite tree in a pasture: a mulberry tree.

We talked again but don't remember. Then I was back above my house. I remember they told me I had to go back, but I did not want to go back. Then they told me time will go by fast and walked me back to my bed, put me back in my body and they put me in bed. I remember opening my eyes; they looked back at me and waved with a smile. The love was so intense I still have it to this day.

The next day I told my sister I knew what she did at the party and I remember her being mad saying my Mother was spying on her.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Oct 1969

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Acciden. tDirect head injury    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I fell out of top bunk bed while asleep and hit my head on floor.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I saw what my sister was doing at her Halloween party and it was true.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It seemed more real than through my eyes now.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As soon as I was above my house.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see more clearly.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I can't remember.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Pure Love

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No     Not sure.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Unknown

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Secular unaffiliated

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I was very young we did not go to church I had no belief other than what I felt

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe it made me what I am today.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   There were 2 beings, were about 4 feet tall, and had  smiles. They were bright fluorescent-like. I could almost see through them.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     I did feel Unity when I was with the entities

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Before this happened I felt the presents of God

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I think they told me about my purpose. I know they told me things I just can't remember. There was a lot of Love so much I did not want to return.  I know my Purpose is to Love all people

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain     I think they told me about my purpose I know they told me things I just can't remember

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Uncertain

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     There was alot of Love so much I did not want to return

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I have a feeling for people that they just do not understand if I try to explain love/life. Sometimes people get me angry, but I get over it quickly.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember so much I wish it would happen again I feel a longing to see them again

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Loving feelings inside, I wish all people could feel the way I do.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The next day to my sister and only told my Mother, wife, and son. Not sure if any believe me, only my sister since she knew I was right about what she was doing at her party

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     For a long time I couldn't stop thinking about it, I wanted to see them again. I still think about it after all these years.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I still feel the same about it. It never changed.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   Other strange things have happened to me over the years but not NDE related.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I remember so much I wish it would happen again. I feel a longing to see them again.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1joe_j_nde.html