{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1joe_i_ndelike.html","mytitle":"Joe I NDE-Like 198","mylang":"de"}
          	        Joe I NDE-Like 198  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Joe I NDE-Like  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE-Like  						660  Joe I NDE-Like  198  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  				  Convinced that I would soon die, I had been terrified of going to sleep, and had not slept for more than two days, I lost all hope, and started to drift off very peacefully.


A television suspended from the ceiling was on broadcasting a music show. Dionne Warwick was singing. Without warning, I was suddenly stretched out, supported by nothing, on a level with the television. I was not at all alarmed, but rather incredulous that such a thing could happening. I looked to the ends of my feet and arms to view any tethers. There were none, but instead I saw gauzy wisps trailing off from my extremities into space. There was no sensation of binding; I felt weightless and calm despite my surprise. I could not hear anything. I happened to glance down to my bed, and I saw myself lying there as if from a great distance. This caused such disturbance in my mind, to be in two places that I crashed to earth. I actually bounced when I hit the bed. Then I could hear Dionne Warwick finishing her song.


I would have given anything to go back, and I tried in vain to repeat the experience. From that minute on, I started to get well, and was discharged in a few days. I did not tell anyone about this for a long time and even then I was reluctant.  The experience changed me profoundly, and permanently. I graduated from nursing school the following year, and I am still serving people in this way.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    1981

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No   IllnessAllergic reaction    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening I had been very ill with asthma for many days, nothing would lessen its hold, and I expected I would die.


  					How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was fully alert.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   There was no sound, and floating high above one's bed is not natural.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No     

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No     

Did you see an unearthly light?      No   

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No     

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I came to fear death less.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No     

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No   

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   

What is your religion now?      Liberal   

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I had a real desire to serve others.

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   My surprise, and how it seemed so natural and free from any trauma.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No     

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Coming back, and not being able to reproduce the event.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Many were tolerantly amused, some had had or knew someone who had similar experiences.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   Not even close.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      No

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1joe_i_ndelike.html