{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1joe_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Joe G NDE 1058","mylang":"de"}
          	        Joe G NDE 1058  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Joe G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						471  Joe G NDE  1058  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

Well before I start writing anything, I feel that I have to give you a little bit about me. In Nov. of 2003, that was about three months before, and I lost my mother and a friend (who is a girl) who I want to take out on a date. My mom passed away because of injuries she had in a car accident and my friend in a plane accident that we were both on. In the plane accident, I had broken my left ankle and was placed on leave from the Army. It was only about three days later that I was told that my mom had passed. I wanted to share that as both of them are in my experience.


I was home a few months when I was told that I had stomach cancer. I was undergoing the treatment for it and dealing with everything that the treatment was doing to me. I was told that one of the medication could cause a heart attack but the chance of it was a million to one.


A few weeks after I started, I started having small chest pains and I went to lay down for a while. My brother who at the time was an army medic was at home went to look at me after about an hour. When he did, I told him that I was feeling something heavy on my chest and I had heartburn really bad.  He took my blood pressure and told me to relax and take it easy.  He then told me that I was having a heart attack. He had my step-mom call 911 and started treatment on me.  He and our step-mom worked on me till the fire department arrived.


When I was in the emergency room. I felt my body go numb and my chest was heavy. I started seeing the room go black and I had a hard time hearing everyone around me but I remember hearing my doctor say 'No we can't lose him, let's keep going, I don't want to lose him, he is just a kid, give me another round of epi and charge it to 360 and keep bagging him.' Then everything thing went black and deadly quite.


Then I was what I thought were the waiting room and my doctor taking to my dad.  Then my brother (who was in the emergency room with me working on my) walking in a daze saying 'what did I do wrong, all the medical training I have and I could not save my brother, what the hell did I do wrong. I tried to tell him that I was ok but he could not hear me. Then I remembered what my sister said happen to her when she had her NDE just a few weeks before. I thought oh my God I am dead, this is what it is like, but where is my mom and grandfather? Where is the music that she said she heard? Where is the light so bright that she talked about?  Then everything went black and I could not see anything and all my thought were played back to me.


Then wherever I was started to fill with fog. I then felt myself move along a hallway of darkness. Then I heard someone calling my name and telling me to come along. I was ok and this where I was to call home. They were there to guide me home. I could feel something was not right and I wanted to go back the way I came but I was told that I could not go back my time on earth was done. I was to keep moving and I would see my mom soon. The voices keep telling me to move along with them and to keep up. Everything I looked back I felt something bad was going to happen to me and that I need to go back the way I came. Every time I look back, the voices told me to keep up and keep moving.


I told myself that enough was enough and I said that I did not want to go any further then where I was, till they told me where I was and where we were going.  The voices said that we had reached our point. That I was where I need to be now. I then could smell what I thought was sulphur and death. Then the voices started to laugh and say that this is what my life caused me to have. I asked where I was and what was going to happen next. The voices just laughed some more and repeated what I said. I thought to myself that I had to be in hell, because this was not what my sister said happened to her. This is not how she said heaven was like. Then I could hear my thoughts out loud. The voices then said that there was not heaven for me. That this was the heaven that was to be mine.  Then one of the said that it was feeding time.


Then I felt like I was pushed back into a wall and my arms pinned back to the wall. I felt totally helpless and then I saw what looked like hair ball with shark teeth come at me. I looked to my right side and saw that the voices were little monsters that were turning into the hairballs and back into monsters. They were the ugliest looking things I have seen and yet to see. They looked like snakes crossed with bats crossed with something that had horns. They had bodies that were like that of a snake and it had wings. They arms and hands look like those of a bat. Their faces look like snakes and they had fangs like a bat and a snake. On the top of their heads, they had horns, but not like the horns of a bull or a ram. They had pointed horns but nothing that I could say was earthly.


As they turned into hairballs, I asked what was happening to me. They laughed and told me to shut up and I could hear my feeling out loud. Then they started coming at me and as they did, I felt sick to my stomach. I remember feeling why is this happening? Where is my mom and where is God? Then I felt them feeding on me. I looked down at what I thought was my body and parts where gone. I then looked at them and my body parts where in their mouths. Then one of them said 'We told you already that this is your heaven and we are your God.'


 I don't know why I did this, but I started saying the 23rd psalm aloud and they stopped feeding for a few seconds. One of they said that was not going to help me now. I kept on saying the lord is my shepherd, I should not want, he make me lay down in green pastures, for his namesake. It was then they curled into a pile and yelled, 'There is nobody to save you!' I kept on saying the 23rd psalm. 'Yea, I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil for thou are with me, thy staff and thy rod. They comfort me.' I then felt my arms go free, I was standing, and they were crowding in this pile saying there was no one to help me now.


 I felt that I had to say the psalm all the way to find my way out of this place - which I now felt was hell. So with everything I had in me I tried to recall every word that I could say. 'He leadeth me beside the still waters and he restored my soul. You set a table before in the face of my enemies, You pour oil over my head and over flow my soul, Your love and kind have always been with me.' At that point I started feeling a wonderful feeling that come over my and I had to close my eyes.


Then I heard a voice say,'Joe it's me, open your eyes. It really going to be ok. I knew the voice as being my friend that I had wanted to ask out back in Nov. 2003 just before she was killed in a plane crash that we were both in.  Then she said 'Sandy, He is too scared to open his eyes right now, maybe you can get him to open his eyes,' Then I knew that I heard my mom because she said 'Joe, my sweet thanksgiving baby, (my mom would always call me her sweet thanksgiving baby because I was born in November) your ok now, the worst part is over now, open your eyes baby, it's ok to be scared but you need to open your eyes now, my little sweet pea, please for me baby.'


When I did open my eyes I saw her standing before me hugging I and she told me to look down. When I did, I saw my body was one again. The parts that were bitten off where back on my body. She told me that I was ok now and that I had a choice before to make but first she wanted to show me a few things. She took my hand and we were off. The first thing she showed me was a castle. It looked very old and very beautiful. I could see knights on horseback riding off into battle.  I could also see that the castle was on a very green hillside. I could also see shepherding with their flock eating off the hillside. I then asked my mom if I could feel the grass because I had not seen such a hillside before. She took me down so I could, and as we got close I could smell the grass. It smelled like watermelon, it was so sweet smelling that it was overpowering and I wanted to eat a piece because I thought it was watermelon. My mom told me that I could not; it was for the sheep to eat.


The next thing that she showed me was an ocean. It was not one that was on earth. The water was a dark navy blue. I would almost say it was a cobalt blue. My mom said it was ok for me to take a drink of water. When I did it was so good. It was like having a raspberry/bubble gum/tutti fruity snow cone. It was like nothing I ever had and yet to have again or at least found yet. She told me that this ocean is where they all come to drink and to unwind a bit.


She then said that she had one last thing to show me. It was not a very happy thing to show me but she had to. I told it was fine. If she had to show it then it was ok. I was not going to stop her from showing me. It was part of what she had to. She took me to our house and inside the rooms and I was to see my family. I was to see what they were feeling with me in their lives. I could feel a great loss in every room.  Their hearts were heavy with sadness and wondering what could have been for me and my life. I asked my mom if this is what Mandy went through when she had her NDE. Mom said no, that her NDE was not the same as mine. Everyone is different; therefore, everyone has a different experience.  Mandy has not done the same things that I had done and she has not yet done what had been asked of her. She still has things that she has to do before she is shown any of what I was seeing. I then asked my mom if the reason she was showing me this was to help me make up my mind if I was going to stay with her or go back to my dad and my family on earth. She said 'yes.' She wanted me to make up my mind between the places that I could be.


Then she said that I had to stand before someone and it was time to go before him now. She told me not to be scared of what was going to happen next. Then we were off to where she called the point of choice.


When we got there, there was a huge scene to my right side. Then there was a bright light that came up. As the light grow closer I saw a golden center in it. When it stopped, the center was right in front of me and said nothing. Then I was told to look at the scene to my right. As I turned my mom said it was ok, just let my feeling be known. I could see photos of my life on earth. My old schools and all my friends, all my pets, all the pranks that I played on my teachers. Then the last photos I saw were of my family. All the times I hurt my sister and all the games my brothers and I played. When it was over, I was asked if I had learned anything of what the other person felt. I said yes and that I was very sorry of all the hurt that I caused them to feel.


The light said that I had a choice to make. I was free to stay or that I could go back. The crossing point was right in front of me. All I had to do was walk across two feet but if I did, there was no going back. I was there to stay if I cross those two feet.


I said that I wanted to stay but I could not take knowing what my family was going to be feeling if I stayed. I wanted them to be happy that was ok but I know that they were going to miss me too much for me to be happy if I stayed. I was told that it was ok for me to go back it was my choice to go back.


Then the golden light said to my mom to take me back. She said ok that she would.  She then said, 'ok baby just lay down and keep your mind on me. It's ok to be scared but just remember you are going to be ok. Remember that I love you, your brothers, sister, and your dad. I will be here for all of you including your new step-mom.' Then she said to close my eyes and when I open then again I would be back with my dad in my body. She also said that I would feel pain but it would be ok. I would be home in about a week and I would make a full recovery of my stomach cancer in a few months.


With my eyes closed, I felt myself float back into my body. As I did I could see words and answers pass through me? Almost as I was gaining all the answer to everything, I could ever want to know.


When I opened my eyes some six hours later, my family was at my side happy to know that I was back. I could not find the words to tell them of what I had gone through. Well at least the part that I feel was hell. I had a hard time telling or at least getting them to understand that I was in hell for a while.  My mom was wrong about me being in pain. I was not feeling any pain and I was able to go home about a week after. I did make a full recovery of my stomach cancer in about three months.


Some people would say that I copied this from Rev. Storm. I know of his NDE.  There is a part that some would say that mine is like his. I only found out about his after I had mine. I wanted to know if there was any one else out there who had an experience like mine

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    2/20/2004

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Illness    Clinical death Was ongoing cancer treatment at the time. The cancer was not life threatening but I suffered a heart attack during my treatment.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Was very conscious and alert through all of it.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I did not have any sense of time when I was gone because there is no time after death.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   See narrative above.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     See narrative above.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe.     Everyone is different therefore everyone has a different experience. We all have something that was asked as us to do here. I know that mine is to be a brother and son to my family. I know that I have to be a great one. I know that I have to help my family every day. We all have to be a brother to everyone here and to help them as much as we can.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:      Vision of the future

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I believe there is a hell and heaven. The choices that we make here are what places us in the world after death.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I know what people are going to do beforehand. I can read people and know who they are if they are lying or about to steal or cause harm on somebody. I can say that I was able to heal myself in only three months when the doctor told me it would take at least six months before any healing took place.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part was being able to say goodbye to my mom at least to tell her that I love her and that I was sorry that I did not say goodbye to her before she died. The worst was being in hell

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Some think it was the medication that I was on at the time. Others think I am nuts. Others say it was because I did not believe in heaven and hell. Still others fear the part about hell because nobody wants to hear that. And some find that the fact that I was saved goes to show that everyone who calls to him can be saved. Most in all find comfort in knowing that there is a God and a heaven.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I can't stand to see zombie movies of any kind. I have nightmares if I do see them.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1joe_g_nde.html