{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1joe_d_nde_2708.html","mytitle":"Joe D NDE 2708","mylang":"de"}
          	        Joe D NDE 2708  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Joe D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						902  Joe D NDE  2708  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I suffered a massive heart attack on March 14, 2005, at about 5pm in the evening. I could not breathe properly and was gasping madly for air. The paramedics were called at once and when they arrived, they immediately dropped a large electrical wheel on me, which hurt me severely, but my breathing improved slightly. I was bustled into an ambulance and taken to the nearest hospital’s emergency room. During the ride there, I apparently passed out, and when I next awoke, I was the intensive care unit. It was there; that I found out three days had passed. It was now Thursday, March 17, 2005. I was told that I had been placed in a medical induced coma for a while so that I would not move around and disturb the many tubes that were attached to my body. 

The doctors informed me that I would need to undergo triple bypass surgery and a maze operation if I had any hopes of continuing to live. I was told, as was my wife, that the operation was dangerous and that my chances of living through it were about 50-50. However, I had developed pneumonia and, thus, had to wait until that cleared up before the surgery could take place. The surgery finally took place on March 24. 

A few days prior to that surgery, I had an experience whereby I recalled clearly the details of my NDE. I realized I must have experienced the NDE during the 44 seconds that I flat lined on the cardio monitor while in the emergency room on March 14. It all then came back to me clearly and as I lay there in my hospital bed, actual chills occurred, as I re-lived it in my mind.

At first, there was total darkness, the blackest black I had ever seen. So black, in fact, I could not see anything, not even one inch in front of me. Then, there was a flash of brilliant light, extremely radiant and bright, white, blue and yellow in color. Then, very quickly, I was floating over a vast field of flowers. These flowers seemed to encompass acres and acres of land, and they were extremely beautiful, ranging in colors, many of which I had never seen before. I seemed to be in spirit form as I hovered over these beautiful flowerbeds, and I was only a few feet above them as I floated over them. I could smell them also and their aroma was a wonderful scent. Then, a bright light again appeared and I saw the outline of a man in white, but not his face. He told me very special things.  Afterwards he disappeared quickly, but I know from what he told me that two things are certain, and that is: One, I am not to fear death at all, and two; that the future will bring certain things that are both good and bad, including the exact date when Jesus Christ will again appear on this earth. I hesitate to go into too much detail here because I am not at all sure that what happened to me on March 14th, 2005, should be shared with others or whether it was meant for me only. That was never told to me. I did not see a tunnel. I did not meet God, Jesus or any angels. I did not travel to heaven. My entire life did not pass before my eyes, nor did I see myself on that emergency room gurney via an out of body experience. 

What took place is exactly as I have herein described, except for many more things that I was informed of during my NDE, by the man in white with no face. I know it was all real because prior to my heart attack, I had an intense fear of dying and also of hospitals and operations. I no longer have such fears at all! Two of the doctors involved later told me that it was a miracle I lived. They could not believe I survived such an attack. My heart is now 40% damaged and it is also dangerously enlarged. I can supply you with documents, charts, et al, and also the names of the doctors involved and bona fide proof that I actually did flat line for 44 seconds on the cardio monitor.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 March 14, 2005  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Heart attack       Other I suffered massive heart attack and was flattened out on cardio monitor for 44 seconds, I was later told. A code blue was issued at the time.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It was EXTREMELY intense!  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When listening to what the person in white had to tell me.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I have poor vision, but could see very clearly in my NDE. The colors of the flowers were as though they were much, much brighter than normal, as was the whiteness of the person in white.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Much more clear sounding than usual.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     As described in above narrative.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   As described in above narrative.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The flowers, the man in white, the smells and feeling of peace.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Extreme peace and the smell of clean cool air and lovely flowers.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From the world's future        It was highly informative and very much appreciated!  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Unidentifiable voice     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The future and my own eventual demise and what death really consists of, although I am not sure if that stands only for my death or for all deaths. I was not told this. Also, when Christ will next appear and not to fear death or things on this earth at all as I used to, and no longer do.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I think I am much nicer to people now, and much more tolerant and patient.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Knowledge of the future and of death.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, the knowledge of the future and of what death really is!  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No    Not until now, not even with my wife!  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I don't quite understand your question here. Sorry.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Because I no longer fear death, hospitals and operations as I once did.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I would like to discuss the entire experience with others, I think, but don't wish to be laughed at.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I don't think so.       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1joe_d_nde_2708.html