{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1joe_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Joe D NDE 20641","mylang":"de"}
          	        Joe D NDE 20641  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Joe D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						544  Joe D NDE  20641  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

This event I am about to describe is my oldest memory that I can recall.  I'm unsure if it was attributed to my being hospitalized as a newborn with pneumonia.  The first part of my experience wasn't quite dream-like, it was different. I wasn't what I am now. I don't think I can define what I was.


I was led by other entities to a this strange machine.  I remember it making a low hum, but I couldn't hear it, I could still sense the vibration it made, though. The tone of this was something that had to be done- very solemn. Then I seemed to enter or become one, or passed through this machine thing and entered into a tunnel. As I had described elsewhere, I had none of my earthly senses.  I felt I was infinitely small, conducted through this tunnel, yet squeezed through it, or perhaps fitting through it perfectly, as if the tunnel and I were of the same. The length of time I was in the tunnel seemed instantaneous and infinite, simultaneously.  It's a feeling that I just cannot describe in words. The next thing I recalled after that is that I was, for lack of any other words- alive. I can't remember anything else past or before that point.


The other experience I had was not necessarily out of body, but of the same subject.  I was driving truck for my employer and I was thinking about God, the universe, and how it all works.  This kind of thing fascinates me.  I found myself speaking with God, as I do time and time again.  At the time, I was concerned if I'd make it into Heaven, because I didn't know if I was really good enough, a common and understandable concern.  I promised that I was his, and to do with me as he will.  I'm sure some sort of deal was forged that day, but instantaneously I was overcome with a euphoric feeling of what I can only describe as complete contentment. Exactly after that brief period of time I have had no fear of death, and welcome it when it is my time.  It is my understanding that I have a destiny that must be achieved before it is my time to die, and with that understanding, I have learned that I am almost completely free.  I can now be fearless in the face of danger, use logic in place of natural defensive reaction in multiple cases, and stand up to those who command it. I don't even flinch anymore.  I believe my life is still being forged by these events, progressing, honing myself for the day of days, whatever and whenever it may be. 

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    1979

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Illness    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' Deathly ill with pneumonia. I was hospitalized.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was a different manner of entity. Formless, perhaps.  I could have just been a soul.  One of the things I'm trying to learn is how spirits fit into all of this.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Sleeping, lethargic; nearly dead I'm sure.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   While in the tunnel time didn't exist. The trip was instantaneous and infinite. A sensation I can't convey using words.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    A low hum. I couldn't really hear it, but I could feel its vibration.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No     The place I remember it seemed Enormous, yet at the same time immaterial, undoubtedly not of this dimension.  And I was lead to a machine that I entered into and went through the tunnel.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I was being led by them. At least two that were just slightly more powerful than I was, as I recall.  There was a third entity that I couldn't see, but was with me, everywhere; I could only assume it had to be God.

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   It seemed the farther down the tunnel I went, the further I was from the light I got. Until it was void of light and reached the end.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      A sense of seriousness.  Utmost seriousness.  I do remember words being said, now that I think of it. I can't remember what the words where but I remember they commanded.  The very tone was commanding in a way I doubt I could successfully describe.  I couldn't really hear it either, but feel it somehow, in some other way than I hear things now.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I couldn't move anything, or affect anything.  But the place I obviously never would have seen on Earth.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I can't recall what all was said. There was some sort of discussion. I wish I could remember more.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   The whole thing was scripted, and happened exactly as I knew it would somehow. The feeling is one that is impossible to describe, unfortunately.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   I was too young at the time.

What is your religion now?      Moderate   Holistic.  The first experience I have written happened to me too early to know how my life would have been if it didn't happen or if my life would have been at all.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Too young for the first event I explained. But after the second, I became stronger, more fearless, bolder, etc.  I am more certain about life.  And at the same time, more curious.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   The feeling I felt when I was in the tunnel. Time ceased to exist, or hadn't existed for me yet.  The trip through the tunnel was both instantaneous and eternal simultaneously.  The feeling of not being yet formed. I had no human senses. I felt as if I was infinitely small in size, immaterial.  And moving at an indefinite speed, faster than the cognitive mind could comprehend.  It's obvious that I have never felt that since. The second experience included euphoria, what I could define in simple words as complete contentment.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     If I do I don't know about them yet.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part is that it satisfies, slightly, my hunger for knowledge of this kind of thing.  It's fascinating, which I enjoy.  A sense of purpose is priceless, which the second experience gave me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I have never described it this in depth.  I have told people that I have had a bizarre out of body experience when I was very young, and it always has insisted conversation.  As far as their reaction, it was difficult to read for each person I told it to.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   Nothing comes close. Nothing at all.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I want to understand the definitions of Body, Soul and Spirit, and how it all works. I am a scientist, and have a starving desire to learn more.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1joe_d_nde.html