{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jody_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Jody R NDE 686","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jody R NDE 686  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  				  				  					Jody R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						224  Jody R NDE  686  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

The following is a transcription of the experience as it was described to me:


I was sitting in my chair at home in Midland when I lost consciousness. I was gone for a whole two days although they told me that I was out for only a short time. To me I know it was two days and it was really, really real. Just as sure as I'm a sitting here talking to you it was really real. I saw angels, I was flying, I saw the most beautiful, beautiful place, and it was really, really real.  I can't tell you how real it was. Do you know whom I didn't see?  Floyd, my husband, who died in 2001.  I don't know why I didn't see him but it was really real. I was gone for two days.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    December 2002

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes     Just Old  Life threatening event, but not clinical death Heart attack, stroke.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  No, I was there and it was real.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was clear as a bell and I could see the most beautiful, beautiful place that I had ever seen in my entire life. And it was real really, really real.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I was gone for two days.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Just peace, true peace, and I saw angels.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Angels but I didn't see Floyd (my deceased husband).

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   There was light everywhere and I was flying.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was very beautiful more so than anything I have ever seen and it was really, really real.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was there and a flying around and seeing the angels then all of the sudden I was back here.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Now I know that you just don't ever really know but except to have faith but now I KNOW I KNOW that it is really, really real and you know that Ma would never lie about that it was really, really real.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The beauty and the peace was the best part, and flying. I saw so many things and I went all over, but I didn't see Floyd; I wonder why that was, I didn't like that much but it was real and when I go back I'm not coming back here.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Oh my, I want to tell the world that it is really there, that I was gone for two days, that I saw and flew with angels, and that it is real - but some people just smile at me like this old woman has lost her mind. But I'm here to tell you I was there and it was real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      People believe what they want to and most people are good, even though they don't seem like it sometimes, they really are. There is a place not of this earth, which is as real as this world.  It does not have the problems or cares that we have on earth and it is real. It is, and I think I was supposed to see it and come back to tell you that it is real really real, and when I go I won't come back but I'll be there and wait for you because it's really real. It really is.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jody_r_nde.html