{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jocelyne_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Jocelyne R NDE 818","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jocelyne R NDE 818  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jocelyne R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						314  Jocelyne R NDE  818  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I lay down in my bed, I was very sad, I ate little and slept little.  Several months earlier, my husband had left the house and I thought that I didn't have anything to live for on Earth.  My children could live with their father and his new spouse.  There was nothing to keep me here.  I had decided to leave this life without remorse, without looking back.  I didn't ingest, drink, or take any medicine.  Only the will to leave guided me.


I closed my eyes, I was in the blackness as in a train, then suddenly as if the train had gotten in movement, I crossed rays of light, more and more accelerated.  Then I am myself.  I tried to raise my small finger, nothing happened.  It was a stage of consciousness. I chose to continue.  The train vanished.  In the decor, there was soft light.  I floated, like an immense sea; I felt water, the sand, the sun, as if I was on the side of a beach.  Just the sensations, heat, humidity, light, very pleasant.


There was my cousin, my relatives and full of other deceased people. They told me, you are where you wished, we waited for you.  It was gorgeously good.  Then far away, I heard a voice very far away.  I didn't want to hear it, I wanted to ignore it, but it persisted.  I recognized my son's voice, first like a buzz then it got clearer, and then finally he repeated. 'Mom don’t die, you know you want to live, you know you like life,' he said repeatedly to me.


I thought 'no' in my head; let me be where I am. Then as if I had not accomplished everything before leaving, as if I had forgotten a precious baggage before taking the plane, I made the decision to come back.


My son had wakened up in middle of the night, he entered into my room, he thought that I slept and he told me these words.


After being back in my body, I heard what people thought and I felt their suffering that hurt me everywhere. I was not afraid of anything, nor of anyone.  There was not any more limit to anything, to what I could accomplish; my son began to drag me, to come back in my body little by little.


I worked out of the home and my son watched over me; he had saved my life.  Then a friend entered in my life that gave me back my taste for life, a soul sister. Since then, I have developed quite a lot of intuition, I live life and I pay attention to my body as if I was going to live to be very old.  Several people told to me that I changed a lot for better.  That is my history.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    December 2000

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No     Je me suis couchée dans mon lit, j'étais très faible et très triste, je ne voulais plus vivre. J'ai décidé de mourir.   Je voulais mourrir, ce n'est pas un suicide, je voulais partir ailleurs parce que je n'avais plus rien à faire sur terre, je vivais une séparation et j'étais très triste

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was energy and light.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Very conscious.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   See above

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    The sounds of my son's voice.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     A train on an iron-shod voice that crosses rays of light, more and more quickly and the baffles of the train disappear little by little, I am in infinity, and there is not any more horizon.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     My cousin, my grandparents and others, 'you have a choice to come or go as you wish because your son is waiting for you.'

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Soft.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     See above

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I was very happy, a big well-being, no fear.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I know that I came back for my children.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     In everyday life, I often know of things that go on and that happens.

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes     I arrived at a place where it was everywhere infinity.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I knew that it would be hard to come back and I had very badly.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I like life, I live from day to day, and I don't especially have a fear of dying.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   To speak with another person who has not lived it.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     More intuition and with certain people one speaks itself in thought.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       What I saw and felt gives me confidence in life after the death. I find that there is a lot of suffering when one lives on Earth. When I came back in my body that made badly.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    They found it beautiful.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   Sometimes when I am with special people who are full of energy for example, my soul-sister, I feel a sensation that resembles a little what I felt in my experience.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      It is complete enough.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jocelyne_r_nde.html