{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1joann_r_nde.html","mytitle":"JoAnn R NDE 2014","mylang":"de"}
          	        JoAnn R NDE 2014  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					JoAnn R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						481  JoAnn R NDE  2014  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            Experience Description :   

  I had been coughing a lot and been sick. My mother took me to the doctor who sent me to the hospital. I had pneumonia and trouble breathing. After I had been in the hospital for at least a week and was not getting better, I had surgery to have mucus removed - my mother says it was a blockage between my bronchial tubes and my lungs.

I was taken into surgery, a mask was put over my face, and ether was dropped on the mask. I was told to breathe it in. The next thing I knew, the nurse was saying frantically, 'Breathe out, Honey,' over and over. I could see the doctors and nurses because I was looking down on them and myself. At this point, things started to happen very fast and I was drawn through a tunnel toward a bright light. Other lights along the tunnel were people. I was very excited because when I got to the end of the tunnel I would know everything!! I was moving very fast!! I never did make it to the end of the tunnel. I think I saw some things about my family's move to Anacortes that would take place in a year and I also saw a woman who might be me grown up.

I woke up in the hospital bed. The doctor had pulled one of my teeth because it had been loose and I had money from the tooth fairy. I started to get better and eventually went home. No one ever mentioned that I had stopped breathing during the surgery. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 around Easter 1954  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness Surgery-related       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Undergoing surgery.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      I was moving fast and I was not walking or running - I was just moving.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I think I was most aware when I was rushing toward the light and excited to get to know everything.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual     Everything was happening very fast.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Brighter and just so different than anything else.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't remember the sounds so much - I did remember the nurse telling me to breathe and I must have been asleep then.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was a tunnel that was dark with lights that were people - at the end was an incredible bright light.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The lights along the tunnel were people but I did not know them. They were encouraging.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The brightest light I have ever seen - it was welcoming.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was a little bit scared of what was happening because it was so fast and I had no control over everything going so fast. I was also excited to get to know everything. I did not have much understanding of religion nor had I had any people I knew who had passed on, so the light felt like more of a source, and the lights that were people were an encouragement.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Neither  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From personal future        I think I might have seen my family's move to Anacortes that happened in the next year - at the time of my experience my family was not contemplating such a move. I may have seen myself as an adult. All this was just glimpses.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   My family was Christian but not overly religious.  I did not have a good understanding of religion at 8 years old.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal   I have Christian and other religious interests.  I believe in reincarnation.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I would know everything when I got to the end of the tunnel but did not get there.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        After having this experience - even before I knew it was a NDE - I thought of it as some kind of milestone in my life. I felt I had lived through this for some reason. When things got difficult, or I felt like giving up, I remembered that I had lived through this illness for some purpose.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I tried to tell my family about it when I went home from the hospital but they did not listen or seem interested. I talked about it from time to time through the years but considered it a reaction to ether. Not many people seemed very interested. I met a woman who had had a near death experience herself and she was finally someone who was interested. This is when I became convinced that I had had a near death experience myself and began to talk about it as a NDE.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I just did not know what to make of it. I had no one to talk to and no frame of reference. I was only eight years old.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I firmly believe this was a NDE. I think about it often and wonder at it. I do not like hospitals and though I have had some surgery am very uncomfortable with it.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I was so young when I had this experience. I did not have much understanding of religion or religious figures. I did not know any people who had passed away to meet me in the tunnel.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?        Perhaps some questions for someone who had this experience as a child.     			    			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1joann_r_nde.html