{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1joanie_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Joanie J NDE 2003","mylang":"de"}
          	        Joanie J NDE 2003  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Joanie J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						492  Joanie J NDE  2003  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            Experience Description :   

  At that time, I had never heard of a near-death experience and had no idea what it was that had happened to me. During the experience itself, I felt as if I was being propelled feet first down a long tunnel at warp speed. There was a distinct sensation of the extreme speed of it all. I was hurtling toward the light, but simultaneously feeling as if a strong evil force was also pulling me back the other way, pulling, pulling, and pulling me back. I was conflicted. I wanted to go forward, but I also felt the strong pull to come back. As you see, I did come back.

During the experience, there was also an intense whooshing and vibrating sensation. The best analogy I can use to describe it is this: If you've ever ridden on a ferry boat while sitting in your vehicle, there is a vibration from the engines and a whooshing sound.  The sound is pulsating, emanates from the engines, and reverberates in the structure of the ferry boat, and the experience I had included an intense vibrating/whooshing/pulsating sound simultaneously somewhat similar to that.

However, following that experience I never felt the same again. I had a strong sense that I was a totally different person on the inside, that only my outside appearance was the same, but it was as if I was a different person inhabiting the same body. No one on the outside knew. Only me.

Subsequent to the experience, I became a dare-devil. I would do anything -- virtually anything -- fearlessly. I certainly had no fear of death after that experience. Now that I am much older, I am no longer engaging in all of those risk-taking activities, but I still feel that I was forever changed on the inside by having had that experience.

Even though I had not discussed it with anyone, never mentioned so much as a word about it to anyone, about three years after it had happened, my sister happened to mention the topic of 'near-death experiences' to me, as she had just read a book about it. That was the first I knew that anyone else had ever had a similar experience, much less a name for it. It was only after that, that I then read about it myself and came to the point where I was eventually able to tell others -- only certain people -- about the experience I had gone through.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 July 17, 1976  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.    Childbirth     Allergic reaction to general anesthesia during a C-section  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Much more intense.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Throughout.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Intensely bright, and an intense vibration and whooshing sound.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Intense vibration and whooshing sound.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It seemed that I was traveling at warp speed, feet first, through a tunnel, toward the bright light, but simultaneously being pulled by an equal force back toward where I came from.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light at the end of the tunnel was extremely bright.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Just the tunnel and the light  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       An intense sense of struggle and conflict: wanting to continue to go forward 'toward the light' and simultaneously being pulled back from whence I'd come.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Neither  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From the world's future   

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Changed forever with a new insight. Things were not as cut-and-dried or black-and-white as they had been in my world view prior to the experience. I came to accept that I really did NOT know everything.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Changed forever with a new insight. Things were not as cut-and-dried or black-and-white as they had been in my world view prior to the experience. I came to accept that I really did NOT know everything.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I divorced my husband at that time, took the children, and set out on my own.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Since the experience, I have felt strongly that I have a gift of insight, heightened awareness, and discernment. I can 'see through' people and anticipate future events in a much more different and dramatic way than others seem to be able to.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The most meaningful aspect of it is how it changed me -- forever. The inner knowing that came after I survived the experience, the inner knowing that I was a different person inhabiting the body that others still recognized as the old me, but that I was, in fact, a different person.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The first time I spoke of it was three years after it happened. I only spoke of it after my sister had brought up the subject and introduced me to it after she had read a book about it. Until then, I had no idea what it was that had happened to me, much less that there was a name for it or that anyone else had ever had a similar experience.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was certainly real, but so unfamiliar, I could not speak of it, had no one to share it with, and felt that I had to keep it inside, because I did not know or believe that anyone else could understand what I would have a difficult time even beginning to describe.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I understand it now and accept it, and have no qualms about discussing it with anyone who is interested in learning about it.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I still do not have an opinion about what it was that happened to me. I don't know if it was a function of my brain chemistry during hypoxia or if I was going toward Heaven, or if Earth itself is Hell. But it seemed an incredible struggle, a struggle I cannot even find the words to quantify regarding how strong the pull was to go forward, to continue going toward the light, and yet the intensity of the pull, which seemed like an evil force, pulling me back, back, back to where I had been.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?        You might add some sort of a scale for the questions where you ask about the intensity of auditory or other sensory experiences during the NDE. That way, if a person has a limited vocabulary and difficulty finding words to accurately convey the level of the intensity of their experience, they could rate the sensation (brightness, vibration, joy, whatever else) on a scale of 1-10, they could just mark a dot beside the intensity level they experienced.     			    			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1joanie_j_nde.html