{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1joan_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Joan D NDE 3289","mylang":"de"}
          	        Joan D NDE 3289  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Joan D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1166  Joan D NDE  3289  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

  					I had an allergic reaction to an antibiotic I was taking. I thought it was due to some lotion I had put on, so I got in the shower and tried washing it off. I did take a Benadryl beforehand, not realizing that it would take a while to work. While in the shower, I started having trouble breathing and was getting a bit dizzy. I then knelt down in the tub, and then I sat down facing the water. My nine year old daughter had come in once before and wanted to get my fiance. I told her no I was okay. She then came in while I was sitting down in the tub. She took one look at me and ran to get my fiance Tony. Tony came in and very calmly said to my daughter, 'Go and get me the phone.' My daughter started to panic, and my fiance calmed her down and asked her again to get the phone. She ran to get the phone and brought it to him. He immediately called 911. I had to lean forward in order to get air and breathe. I did not know it, but at the time, my lips were blue, I was extremely pale, and my eyes were bulging. I actually did not think I was dying; I was trying to lean forward and concentrate on getting air into my lungs. My fiance kept talking to me, trying to keep me conscious and awake. He would say, 'Stay with me Joan, stay with me.' He repeated what the 911 operator told him to say. He told me to lean back, which was just so that I would not hit my head on the tub. However, when I leaned back, I could not get any air so I leaned forward again. I could barely talk but I managed to get out that I could not breathe when I leaned back. My fiance kept saying to me, 'Stay with me Joan, the paramedics will be here soon, just stay with me.' I knew I was losing consciousness, but I held on until I saw the male paramedic.
  				  
Everything went black then. I came to, and I must have been in the ambulance. One of the paramedics was sitting on the side of me, and there was another paramedic behind me. I couldn't move anything. My eyes had popped open, but I could not move them. I had peripheral vision and I could see forward, but I could not move anything. I could hear the paramedic behind me say, 'I'm not getting a pressure. The paramedic on the side of me said, 'What?!' He then said, 'I'm not getting a pulse.' Then everything went black.

It seemed like I was standing in total darkness. There was something, or someone standing on the side of me a few feet away. I felt nothing bad, I was actually quite happy. It felt like I had no problems anymore, like the weight of the world was lifted off of me. I turned to look on the side of me. I could not see anything, but I knew someone was there. I looked up at what I thought was the sky. I could see all these stars and they were so beautiful. I continued looking at them and reaching out towards them and saying how beautiful they were. The stars were so bright, but I could look at them without being blinded. Then some of the stars started coming towards me. I turned to the presence on the side of me and said how beautiful they were and that I wished they would hurry up and get closer. When I turned back to look at the stars, they were in the forms of crosses. I thought they were the most beautiful things I had ever seen and I was so happy. I really felt as though they were angels coming for me. The next thing I knew, I was coming to and was in the hospital on a respirator.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    March 2003

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Allergic reaction    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) .


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When the stars became crosses.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      When the stars became crosses.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    The stars seemed so bright, yet I could still look at them.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Although I could not see the being, I knew there was a good presence there.

The experience included:      Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   I saw the lights of the stars.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I'm not sure where I was standing while I was watching the stars/angels.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Happiness, more energy and excited. Everything seemed so peaceful and there were no problems whatsoever weighing me down.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     It just renewed my faith in a greater stance.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   Roman Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      No

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist   Roman Catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No     I should explain though, I was psychic beforehand. I am psychic, clairvoyant and clairaudient.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       It reinforced my faith and my belief in God, Jesus, the Blessed Mother and the Angels.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I explained it to my fiancΘe and friends that day.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    Yes   I had just read about them. I had seen things on television.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     It is hard to explain. I just knew that this was a very real experience. There was also the fact that I was dead for a small period of time.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     I don't know why I had this experience. I think it was God's way of saying I am still here for you, the angels are still here for you, and we will always be.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      No, I think I have said it all.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      No.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1joan_d_nde.html