{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jo_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Jo D NDE 923","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jo D NDE 923  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jo D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						397  Jo D NDE  923  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

Even the stores were crowded with colors, every can, and product showing its true color of content of vibrations.   I visited temples of Light within the great mountains of earth.  I saw Mother Theresa within a church as a young girl, beautiful with dark long hair in a wedding gown.  The church was lit with beautiful golden candles and she was being wed to the Holy Spirit.  She was becoming more as a great Mother of heaven. I was then taken by her fire and was blinded by the Light for an entire night. There is much more to share in time. But, my greatest joy is for all to understand they are never alone, the great saints, Masters, and angels are present. Rejoice in the day, the sky, and the stars, the rivers running to meet the great and vast oceans of the Divine Mother.


NDE:  from allergic reaction.


03/21/2004


EXPERIENCE DESCRIPTION:


What can be said about a near death experience? It is not death it is life.  I experienced one about 6 years ago and am still riding upon the golden soft colors of heaven’s love.  I saw legions of angels bannering the sky and miles of clouds escorting me to the hospital, when I arrived at the door became a golden cave of crystal waters pouring upon its walls.  When I collapsed into the wheel chair, the door no longer opened into the cave, but swung back into earth.  I saw the doctors and nurses and knew to reach and touch the one with the most Light. I took his hand and watched the healing light blazing through his body into mine.  I continued to have visions of God, angels and octaves beyond earth for months.  I could not verbalize speaking with angels, saints or seeing all I saw.  The auras of all around me were blazing. To return to this octave has been a challenge. I had to seek angels to close my third eye, the spiritual one that sees so much, for it was very distracting, and I asked for to see only what was necessary for safety.  Daily I ask to be an instrument of that great love of heaven and to offer that cold glass of water in Jesus’ name.  I did also experience the “dark night of the soul” of which St. John of the Cross speaks.  All of heaven is withdrawn, and you go to the deepest pits of hell.  And you are only held by a strand of Light.  It is lonely, despairing, but one must be constant in the hope and faith you will be victorious.  It is a most curious initiation and being stripped of all identity and desire.  But, after you begin to pass the initiation, you feel great compassion for all of life. Not sympathy that you can save the world, but you are a divine electron in the atom of God and very loved. And all you say and do is to extend and adore that loving God Presence. All around you becomes like a movie in which you are only a player and observer.  My greatest delights are children and the Light they hold, unconditional in their love.  And I am also honored that God trusted me to experience death and hell and gave me the tools, so often forgotten to pass these tests. To anyone who has had a NDA.  Petition God within and without for balance, guidance and simplify your life with beauty, quiet walks, majestic music.  Fine tune the heart in writing poetry, drawing, creating.  And know life is for rejoicing. Find an open friend to trust your thoughts, and be that pillar of love.  I too remain a student of the all.  Jo


Addendum:


Greetings! Isn't it curious how we all are students?  I regret most folks don't travel out of the circle of the familiar. Before my NDE, I was forever seeking hidden messages and meaning into the great religions.  I knew even at age 12 there was more. I read the Tibetan Book of the Dead, all of Edgar Cayce, and the Upanishads before age 13.  It was as if I saw the current flux of info on religion and it was only 1% of the real deal!  I remember as a youth going into large stores, and leaving my body and waiting in the furthest corner, watching all go on. I was still able to function, but it was a way of coping with all around me.  I once, later in life was on a bus at New Years from Las Vegas. The most curious and heavily place drunk, hookers, pot smokers sharing the ride. I sat in front of a young mother and two children from Central America, farm workers, clothed in light clothing, coughing and weary. I turned and said in Spanish, I have so much food, a pillow and a blanket, would you like some?


One thing in the NDE, was for the week afterwards, I had to battle with dark forces, wolves trying to maul me, storms of unreasonable measure, so apparent it was ‘real’ I just kept calling to the Master of Light, and an explosion would move the forces away. I was being taken to a Sun behind our Sun, where dwells the Light of Alpha and Omega.  It was extremely painful, climbing this white ladder.  But, when I finally reached the brilliant white Light of that Sun, after about 18 hours of intense battling, I saw the brilliance of a God unnamed.  I returned able to decipher the meaning behind many words, like emotion, being energy in motion. Mary: being Mother Ray attunement at one with.  And felt these were ancient intonations that created an intense Light ray of God, as a laser beam.  Also, I remembered in ancient civilizations pass when there were great temples of Light, with altars in the center of unfed flames. And there were priest of the sacred. I work with troubled youth and teens, unpaid.  There are so many of them that need help.  I could clearly see that they have been abused or neglected etc. or they are lying.  They know they are under the spotlight. Ha. But, in my assessments, seeing auras etc. it is not critical. Imagine yourself peering upon a beautiful flower, sunset etc. You do not feel you have to criticize it, categorize it. It just is.  And that's how I see an aura.  If someone is deep, as an intense drug abuser, I will see a red orange muddy brown. I see beyond that to a pink, yellow and white.  I always ask to hold the healing presence of the angels for anyone I see.  I believe I see these things, that I can ‘make the calls’ to the angels. Not to send critical, demeaning thoughts.  I do feel like a Saint and neither from my efforts nor any great achievements.  But a certain office that I am to hold.  I am not the office, but the participant in a greater service only by God's grace. Onward:  and thank you for your simple support. Much of this I have never shared. But, for this juncture, it is fine with me.  As a NDE ‘expert’ you seem opened to more connecting with others that otherwise would be alone upon a boat without a sail.  Stay humble by simplicity and I assure you God will fill that Tao of a bowl, each time you empty it, and rinse it with gratitude, praise and an understanding that you are not the bowl, only one holding it for a time and a time and a half, by God's grace. Lovingly, I too remain a student, more than you can imagine.  But, isn't discovery so joyous. Who would believe you?  Although in college, I had just finished a NDA study class. But, the information was too sacred to share. Also, afterwards I could not read nor write for months. Not connected enough to go there. Nor even feel a sense to do so.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    9/96

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No   Allergic reaction  Anaphylactic reaction to a sulphur drug.  Clinical death they said I had a minor stroke.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Disturbing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was apart yet connected when watching it all. Almost laughing at the drama of my body straining to stay alive. When I knew I wasn't going to die.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I saw clearer than ever, and saw the auras of all in attendance.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   All time was merging into a floating stream of connectiveness.  No distinct lines of demarcation.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     Beautiful golden cave, rocks with gentle waters glowing streaming down.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I saw on the way to hospital legions of angels of the band of Archangel Mich'l, a powerful blue protector of all. And later, weeks, was in a huge beautiful temple within the Grand Teton Mountains at a conclave of waltzing, celestial music, and joy. The walls and floors where alabaster and white marble. Masters were present in beautiful robes of purple, white and gold.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   The light was golden.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Peace and the softest pastels of Light, beyond measure.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Did you have a sense of knowing, special knowledge, universal order and/or that the healing was coming in the form of an intense ray of Light, through the one with the greatest attainment, and I was to touch that person. I did and felt and saw the Light.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I can tell who is calling, who is coming to visit, who is thinking about me.

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes     This is funny, but I saw the door of the hospital become a metal turn style, and it turned so quickly I had no chance to make a choice, it had already been made that I was to return.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No   A greater source already decided that. But, I did see my 4 children as the magnet for that decision.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   I have studied all the religions of the world for about 32 years.

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     God and angels are closer than one can imagine. And I am an old soul, in that I now remember former life’s that are only like watching a movie, no big deal.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Seeing auras clearly. Reading person's intentions, be it evil or benign.  Clearly seeing Light and darkness around everything and person.  Feeling records of pass events when I go somewhere. Very sensitive to all.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The fear my children had that I was not going to live. The best is that song, prose and beauty continue to pour from my heart.  And I know I have a greater purpose.  One of the person I saw, I asked why, and was told it was so I would not be late for my graduation. It was in a beautiful banquet room.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    My children are still concerned for the miles I went far away. But know I am spiritual and they respect that. Those who have heard some of my story have been elevated to share their deepest gleanings of the meaning of God. A renowned Rimpache from Tibet stayed with us for two weeks, a consultant to the Dalai Lama, and he understood all I said. I feel as though many barriers were shattered in a fast form. ha.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      That all should respect those who have crossed over, and not prod them to reveal what they should not for now. Only because much of it is sacred and is to be respected.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Perhaps ask how long did it take before the person told anyone.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jo_d_nde.html