{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jm_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"JM Probable NDE 4527","mylang":"de"}
          	        JM Probable NDE 4527  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					JM Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2274 JM Probable NDE 4527  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had a Pneumo Thorax and required surgery to fix it. Whilst undergoing surgery I had an experience, at which point I am not sure. I was not aware of leaving my body, but I was aware of 'waking up' somewhere else. 

I found myself in a small clearing in what seemed to be a kind of forest. There was a table in the clearing large and oval at which sat people who I did not know. I was beckoned to go and sit down at an empty space. After I sat down a large screen appeared behind the table and we all turned to see it. The screen showed in a fast forward mode all the events of my life up until that point. After the 'film' finished, there was a lot of discussion (which I did not really seem to be part of) about whether I had 'followed' my life path and overcome the tasks set to me. After some debate the consensus was that I had not and I was informed that I was to be 'sent' back for another try.  This time, I would need to make some changes and put my life on a different track. I was escorted by one of the members of the 'council' out of the clearing to an area, which was quite non-descript in appearance, like being surrounded in a kind of mist. The mist grew more intense until I dissolved into it.  

The next thing I was aware of was waking up in the recovery room. As soon as I could speak, I reported to my attending nurse what had happened. It was logged on my chart as a dream.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  may 1996

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As soon as I 'woke up' in the clearing I was fully conscious and at no point did it feel like a dream.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     The white mist was kind of an enclosure.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I felt I knew the people around the table.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   White mist.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt a kind of indifference. I felt my life experiences as I was watching it being re-played but with a strange sense of detachment.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     After the 'experience' I did make many changes to my life, particularly how I see life. I lost my fear of death, changed my 'life path'. In a way I started a new life after the experience.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I no longer judge others or judge life in the same way as I did. There is definitely more to life than I thought there was!

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I no longer judge others or judge life in the same way as I did. There is definitely more to life than I thought there was!

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I now see others as souls having their own experiences and learning here. I always try to stay with that notion, and if I can help others to accept that there may be a possibility as to why they are here.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I started seeing life in a very different way. I now have 'spirit' communication, visions of the future, healing abilities and often leave my body at night consciously.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Watching my life on the screen and being aware of how the choices I made affected my whole life.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I share my experience with very few people, only those who I feel will not be judgmental. It has changed my life in very big ways.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The proof is in the pudding so to speak. I changed my life drastically after it, the whole way I experience the world. That is enough for me to know that it was real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The memory of it is as real now as it was after it happened and I carry it with me every day.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It was a life changing event for me.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Not really, I'm sure these experiences are very personal to the people who have them.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jm_probable_nde.html