{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jm_nde.html","mytitle":"JM NDE 104","mylang":"de"}
          	        JM NDE 104  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					JM NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						525  JM NDE  104  					  				  			      			</section>    			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 I was at the beach with my family, and we were jumping the waves. I got caught in the undertow and at first tried to break through the surface. As my lungs began to feel like they would burst, I remember breathing in water and feeling so much better.


At this point, I saw gill slits in the sides of my throat while my mind was thinking: 1. I was a mermaid, one of my favorite dreams; 2. I was a fish; 3. I told myself not to be silly, I was drowning.


I was completely relaxed and felt total love. I could see shadows of people on both sides of me who knew me, but I didn't know them…but they were family. I heard the most beautiful music and was moving through a tunnel towards a light that I knew to be God.


I was warm and glad to be going…then all of a sudden, the light exploded, and I awoke on the beach with people around me who had found me washed up. Everything was so loud and bright, and it hurt really badly, but I was ok. The funny part about this is I wanted to go back in the ocean because I knew God wouldn't let me drown, but my parents wouldn't let me (of course). To this day, I have no fear of water; I love to swim and go to the beach.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1962

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain   Accident     drowningI drowned.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Fully alert.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I knew I was no longer in Earth time.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Beautiful music.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     I was on my way up the tunnel to see God, the light.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     The people on both sides of me lining the tunnel to God.

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Very bright, but not far away.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No     

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Love, love, love.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     That God is love, death is not to be feared, and we are all one.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No     

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No   

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   Christian science

What is your religion now?      Liberal   None

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Uncertain     Since I was young, I'm not sure. I had many beliefs set in concrete that could change.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   I heard music and also the emotional feelings.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I have dreams that come true and premonitions.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Best…the music, warmth, love, and knowing about God. The worst was how I hurt when I woke up on the beach.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Many think I'm kind of nutty, anyway, so it falls in with their beliefs not mine. Those who understand have had a similar experience or know someone they love who had the same experience.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I practice loving kindness every day to all of god's creations: animals, minerals, vegetables and all of Mother Earth

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jm_nde.html