{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jimmy_w_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Jimmy W Probable NDE 22232","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jimmy W Probable NDE 22232  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jimmy W Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2244 Jimmy W Probable NDE 22232  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					When the illness began it was thought I had the flu, but as time went by and the fever worsened I was taken to the hospital for blood test and rheumatic fever was found.  I was treated for the illness at home.  I lost the ability to walk.  Each night the fever would return and each night a little worse.  Each night after the sun had set the fever would rise and I would start to hear the sound of roaring water, like that of waterfalls, getting louder and louder with the sensation of water being poured in my face, suffocating me as though I was drowning.  I was told my screaming was so loud that neighbor women would come to help my mother hold me in the bed.  

With the light of morning, the fever would lessen and I became aware of my surroundings.  I along with the bed would be wringing wet with sweat and a dry bed would be required for that day and the following night.  Then one night the roaring and the sensation of drowning was much worse and then I was above the bed looking down in the dimly lit room at my mother and another lady, with me lying in the bed glistening with sweat and looking very tired.  

The next instant I was outside looking down from above at my house.  I slowly started to move higher, away from my house looking back as the house grew smaller.  At some point, I stopped ascending and as I hovered there, I was aware that I had no physical body and there was no sound.  It was as though only my eyes had left.  I don't remember being afraid and I thought, so this is what my house looks like from high above.  I stayed for a while staring only at my house and then like a very fast zoom in of a camera I was in my bed and it was getting daylight.  The fever each night afterwards lessened and at the end of about three months I was able to walk again.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Summer of 1953

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Illness    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening   High fever associated with rheumatic fever.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  There was no body, only the ability to see with no pain or roaring of water and the sensation of drowning.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Very aware of my being above myself and my house with no sound or body.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No sound at all.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I could see with no apparent physical body, but could hear nothing.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       None.  I don't remember being afraid, only marveled at the sight of my house from above, never having been in an airplane.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was hard to describe the process of return to out of body.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I've been able to feel the death of someone when I'm on or near flowing water (suicide, attempted suicides and drowning in or near that body of water, even at miles away).

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Sometimes I relive it in my sleep and wake up afraid and disturbed.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It's harder to relive now then as child.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jimmy_w_probable_nde.html