{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jim_w_nde_282.html","mytitle":"Jim W NDE 282","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jim W NDE 282  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jim W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1382 Jim W NDE 282  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					While being transported to Harborview Hospital via helicopter, I found myself floating above my body and looking down at it through the air-grill that lined the radius at the roof line of the interior of the helicopter. I felt very comfortable during this and at peace somewhat. I also felt the presence of an indescribable light behind me. I did not want to turn to this light, maybe from fear of not returning. My fear was not of the light itself, in any way. I don't know how long this out of body took place. I remember the emergency medical technicians rushing around, fixing my busted up torso and head, and saying twice, ' We're losing him.' After some time I felt what I know was the hand of God on my shoulder, and a very calming voice. If I may quote the Lord, 'You are not done here.' I felt a gentle push on my shoulders and was pushed back into my beaten body. I remember nothing after that point, and until I left the coma, I had slipped into. What I do remember is the absolute presence of God.

A gentle effective, push from behind was felt. I wasn't done here. The next thing that I remember was coming around in the hospital, still not knowing anything, except that my body was really messed up. I wish that was all that had happened, but the real damage wasn't obvious or seen for some time. My journey, at this point, has just begun.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  April 25, 1995

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death Traumatic Brain Injury from fall  Severe trauma: Brain injury, back broken, ribs, kidneys smashed cuts and lacerations.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I really don't have a recollection of my own appearance.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Totally unconscious, apart from small glimpses possibly.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time seemed to sit still. No real recollection of time.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I felt the light behind me coming from a far place. As I said I didn't turn to look at it, but knew and was fully aware of its presence.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     God.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Light from behind glowed in my peripheral vision.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Warmth and peacefulness.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Sense of God himself and absolute confirmation of His existence and the presence of an afterlife.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Flashes of some events, although main crux of things were of the present situation.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I think that I, in not wanting to turn to the light, made that decision. Ultimate decision was made by God Himself.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Importance of things has changed dramatically. What was important then is not now, on certain areas.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I am just now trying to put it into words. Five-plus years after.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I now have an extreme sense of empathy that was never present before.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Being in the presence of GOD. Not being able to share this, for fear of being called crazy.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Just beginning to share.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jim_w_nde_282.html