{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jim_t_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Jim T Possible NDE 5043","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jim T Possible NDE 5043  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jim T Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			2612 Jim T Possible NDE 5043  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had to have four molars removed. My mother brought me to the dentist; they administered an IV to put me to sleep. I remember counting from a hundred in reverse to about ninety. I sense that I went to sleep.    In the next memory, I am floating at the ceiling level directly above my body watching and listening as the dentist pulled the teeth. I remember noticing how hard he had to work to get the teeth to come out. I remember that there was quite a bit of blood. I did not float back to my body but sense that I went to sleep again and woke up in the dentist chair.     The next memory is sitting in the waiting room while my mother paid at the reception window then came and sat with me while I regained my faculties. We walked to the car, I told her what happened (the part about floating) and she acknowledged the story but I think dismissed it as a lingering reaction to the anesthesia.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Mid 1970s

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    Was having 4 molars removed  Other Under IV anesthesia for dental work  I was under anesthesia having four teeth pulled. I was with my mother. We were not informed if the dentist/oral surgeon noticed anything unusual during the procedure.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Shortly after I realized I was watching myself in the chair; which did not shock me, I closely watched and listened as the dentist and the dental assistant worked to get the teeth out.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I seem to remember being able to see the work and the instruments very clearly considering that it seemed like I was about twenty feet high while watching. Note that the ceiling height in the room was a normal nine feet high, it just seemed higher while I was watching.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I don't remember any emotion but a definite curiosity about the work being done.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I do believe in God, the devil, and a sprit world and this experience may have solidified my ability to acknowledge this truth as a continuous state.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I do believe in God, the devil, and a sprit world and this experience may have solidified my ability to acknowledge this truth as a continuous state.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have no problem believing and dealing with the fact that my spirit dwells in but is not reliant on my physical body.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        No.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Within the hour I told my mother, she acknowledged the story but I believe wrote it off to a reaction to anesthesia. I have told may people since then and most listen but have no noticeable reaction.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   I was young and I don't know if I had ever heard about NDE.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I did not dwell on it beyond accepting it as a weird experience.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     As above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jim_t_possible_nde.html