{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jim_l_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Jim L Probable NDE 2845","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jim L Probable NDE 2845  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jim L Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						997  Jim L Probable NDE  2845  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  When I was in second grade I was stricken with rheumatic fever I was only five or six years old at the time and living with my foster parents. This was due to my mother's suicide. I was young at the time but found over the years since that she had blamed herself for my father's heavy use of alcohol. But anyways the rheumatic fever caused me to have a very high fever and I had missed most of the second grade.  I remember that I had to repeat it after I was better.

But sometime during my illness, I left my body (OBE) and found myself across the street in a wooded area that opened into a beautiful meadow, with a small pond in the center of it. Around the pond, there were other children at or around my same age. The children were laughing, and playing cheerfully around the edge of the water and they seemed not to have a care in the world as they invited me to join them even though they never spoke a word or made any eye contact with me I just knew that somehow I should be part of this new found happiness. I remember watching a boy and a girl on the opposite side of the pond.  They were skipping and running and there seemed to be traces of glitter or gold that trailed off them only to quickly fade away when they stopped to investigate a flower or frog that they would see on the pond's edge, but quickly reappear once they moved again. The colors in the meadow were very brilliant and there seemed to be a warm yellow glow enveloping the whole area. There were also many animals and they too seemed to be caught up in the sheer love that encompassed the whole area. Just as quickly as it began I was out of the meadow and found myself looking down at myself standing in front of my foster mother she had both her hands on my shoulders. This is all I remember.

I was told a few years later that the fever had caused a heart defect and I would need to have open heart surgery before I reached the age of eighteen but when I was about to have the surgery at the age of seventeen the doctors and cardiologist found that my heart had healed itself. I wonder to this day if the good lord had started healing me the moment that I stepped into the meadow. I returned to the wooded area as a young man and found that there had never been a meadow or a pond there. The experience has stayed with me for forty four years now and it seems as clear today as it did when it happened and it never fails to lift my soul when I reflect back upon it. I've never spoke of this experience until now and only felt compelled to do so after reading some of the other testimonials on this website. I guess I kept it to myself because to me it's been like a treasured gift that only I could appreciate and would find it hard to explain to somebody who might be closed minded or shallow in nature.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1962  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness        'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Stricken as a small child with rheumatic fever.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Time seemed not to exist. Only the moment.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While I was in the meadow.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     Time was of no importance.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Colors were more vivid, and pronounced.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear the birds in the meadow and the wind as it went through the trees also remember the children laughing but the noises were heard more from my heart than my ears.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     Only the path through the woods that led to the meadow.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Three or four other children both boys and girls, never saw them before. Dressed in nice clothes like children wear on Easter Sunday.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No   Only the warm sunlight that surrounded the meadow.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Beautiful meadow surrounded by lush fields of grass and tall stately trees  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, understanding and a sense of belonging.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Christian  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Same as above  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I do believe I'm more of a gentle soul and find it easier to feel other people's hurt.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I was very young at the time but have always felt real compassion and love for people in trouble, and also for animals who need help. It seems the older I get the more I feel this way. Also grow more aware of the wrong doing in my life and feel a heavier sense of remorse for the wrong things I did as a child.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The whole experience was meaningful and still is today. I think that the other children around the pond might have been in the need of spiritual help. But this is just a theory of mine.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     At the time and even to this day the experience felt real but I find it odd that the older I get the more the experience feels realer even though many years have passed.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Only that I could never dismiss it as a dream, because it has been forty some years and the experience is still as strong as or stronger than when it happened.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Please excuse any typos or poor grammar; I'm not the best writer.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jim_l_probable_nde.html