{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jim_f_nde.html","mytitle":"Jim F NDE 2156","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jim F NDE 2156  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jim F NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						584  Jim F NDE  2156  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            Experience Description :   

  The summer between my eighth and ninth year of school was the longest, and most difficult of my life. Actually, it was almost the LAST summer of my life. I had just completed a very good academic year, where, upon graduation I was voted by my fellow students and teachers as the 'most likely to succeed'. I was given the 'merit' award for the best student/athlete in my class, and was looking forward to beginning my high school experience.

Shortly after school let out for the summer, I began to have repeated serious asthma attacks (something that I had not had to deal with prior to this time). These attacks were so severe; I was hospitalized three times in a four week period in late June/early July. When the fourth severe attack occurred a couple of weeks later, I was rushed to University of Michigan Children's Hospital (Motts) in Ann Arbor, Michigan. After several days of treatment, my doctor told my parents that they would like to keep me hospitalized for up to three months to run comprehensive tests. As there was no way my parent's insurance would cover this length of stay, I was released with instructions to return immediately at the first sign of any breathing trouble.

Within a couple of weeks of being released, I caught a severe chest cold. While I was lying in my upstairs bedroom at my parent's house, my breathing became very difficult. I could feel my chest tightening up, and each breath was more difficult to take. Unbeknownst to my parents or me, my chest cold was actually pneumonia, and this subsequently threw me into a full blown asthma attack. My breathing became labored so quickly, I didn't have a chance to call out for help, and soon I was gasping for breath, barely breathing at all. I felt sheer panic and helplessness as I tried desperately to draw oxygen into my lungs. I prayed for help that someone would come and check on me. I knew I was about to die but I could do nothing to draw attention, as I was too weak to move.

Suddenly, I found myself floating near the ceiling of my bedroom, looking down at my motionless, lifeless body. It did not seem the least bit strange or scary to me at all - quite the contrary - never before or since have I felt such an indescribable sense of peace, calmness, warmth, and above all - totally immersed in unconditional love. Words cannot possibly convey the overwhelming feelings that I was having. (To this day, I still shed tears of joy when I recall this experience.) It seemed totally natural to be looking around from my vantage point near the ceiling. I could clearly see myself lying on my bed, no movements of any kind, looking very - dead; my sister Mary applying make-up in the bathroom; my mom in the kitchen cooking supper, singing some song from 'My Fair Lady'. I could see some of my other siblings watching TV in the front room, as well as the side yard of our house, the sun shining, and the traffic going up and down the street. The walls in our house appeared translucent, they were there, although faintly, but I could pass right through them. Amazingly, none of this seemed strange at all - it seemed quite natural. Above all, I felt love, as I never knew it could be. I felt like I was wrapped in this love, and it was as if a healing hand had taken away all my pain and discomfort. I did not want to leave this place - this feeling - I wanted to go forward.

Just as suddenly, I found myself back in my bed, with my asthma attack totally over. I still needed treatment for the pneumonia, but that was the LAST serious asthma attack of my life. I thank God for the incredible gift He shared with me that day, and I look forward to my return to Him when my mission here on earth is over. Death no longer holds any fear for me! (However, I am still a little concerned about the process - LOL...)

As my life has progressed, I have had a total of four specific instances of divine intervention, and I am truly humbled and thankful for these gifts. They have helped me with my children, my family, my friends, others I have met along the path of my life's journey, and with myself.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 Summer of 1969  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness        Other Severe asthma attack at home  The severity of the asthma attack actually stopped my breathing - I had died.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It's very difficult to describe, but during that specific time, everything made sense. It was like I was given the gift of understanding - there was a total absence of fear, all-encompassing love and protection.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the entire time I was out of body, I was hyper-aware.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   See transcript.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     All boundaries seem to have been removed. They were still visible, but were translucent/transparent. Strongly, I felt like I was seeing with something other than my eyes.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       This is the hardest thing to try and explain - words will not come close to capturing the feelings, but I'll try: Total, unconditional, all-encompassing love, compassion, peace, warmth, safety, belonging, understanding, overwhelming sense of being home, and joy.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Catholic  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I no longer fear a judgmental God - one that is looking for reasons to exclude me from Heaven. I now see the beauty in his creations, and know that He wishes for us to be joyful, loving beings while we experience his creations here on earth.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Non-practicing Catholic  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I no longer fear a judgmental God - one that is looking for reasons to exclude me from Heaven. I now see the beauty in his creations, and know that He wishes for us to be joyful, loving beings while we experience his creations here on earth.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   This too is hard to explain. I came away knowing that there is a reason I am here. I have a purpose for being here that, although it may not be totally clear to me, I will fulfill in due time. I came to understand that we all have a purpose, and a primary part of that purpose is to love one another, and help one another experience the splendor of creation.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I was only fourteen.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Words cannot possibly capture the incredible love, peace, acceptance, connectedness, calm and joy that I felt.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I seem to have the ability to predict things at a rate greater than statistical probability would normally allow - I have not tried to develop this ability any further.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The entire experience is especially meaningful to me. Growing up in a strict fundamental Catholic household, I was scared to death that I would never get into Heaven. This experience has put my mind totally to rest on that issue. I know what is waiting for me, and I look forward to the day that I am called to come home.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I did not share this with anyone for over thirty years. Since then, I have only shared it with a handful of very close friends and family members. Strongly, I am just now feeling compelled to discuss it more openly. Some that I have shared it with were visibly moved, while others were more dismissive.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The immediate healing from my asthma attack was lifesaving. I would have surely died had it not been for this experience.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The experience is just as vivid and real in my mind today as it was when it occurred thirty-five years ago. My feelings about it have actually intensified as I have gone through life, as greater levels of understanding have been reached. Because I was blessed with three other instances of 'proof' that the divine is real, how could I not have a more intense and deeper understanding of this experience?  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         			    			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jim_f_nde.html