{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jim_d_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Jim D Probable NDE 3288","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jim D Probable NDE 3288  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jim D Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						1165  Jim D Probable NDE  3288  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

OUT OF BODY

A second chance is there to see

For those who've had an O.B.E.

   A flight of fancy may be all,

   But 'Tunnel Vision' may befall

A favored few who see the light

And find the Promised Land in sight;

   And at the tunnel's end we find

   A glorious goal that bends the mind.



A common theme is warmth and love

From entities we've all heard of.

   Sometimes we meet with friends who passed;

   Then 'life review' may rush by fast,

As we re-live the good and bad

That marked the Earthly time we've had.

   We may be given insight to

   A future that will still come true.

           *************



And then we're told WE can decide

To stay or go back where we 'died';

   And those, with missions unfulfilled,

   Return to help the World rebuild.



               By JOB.



THE EXPERIENCE:

Driving a TR-3 sports car with a cloth top and with a fellow bow hunter, we were rushing to get a hunting license before the country store closed. It was dark when I passed a car on what I remembered as a long straightaway. Instead, there was a right angle curve and I skidded on the gravel and flipped over into an orchard. The convertible top trapped us upside down and the doors could not be opened. I had the presence of mind to shut off the ignition and headlights and my buddy said he could not budge the door. I could barely breathe as my chin was driven against my chest. I suddenly notice liquid pouring down and figured it was blood from my jugular vein. (Instead, it was gasoline from the ruptured tank in back of the driver.) I always had thought I would fight death with all my might, but I felt my self slipping and I said, 'Clark, I'm going...'

I heard his fading voice from a distance, 'Hang on!' And then it was almost oblivion, except I had slipped into a void in a fetal position, rocking to and fro, and hearing a sepulchral voice saying, 'Now you are dead!'

It seemed that our going on a wild boar hunt and the rest of the situation had caused to fall into place the end of existence and I was destined to continue through eternity in solitary, rocking in a void. And then came a sequence of the roar of a generator starting, a kick to my thigh and a squeezing of my right hand. This pattern repeated over and over until I decided to try to change things and squeezed back with my hand. It was Clark's hand. He had been helped out by the motorist we had passed. He was able to raise the side of the sports car just enough so that Clark could scramble out, uninjured (thanks to his seat belt.) I regained consciousness and was also unwound from the tight quarters to emerge from the nearly totaled vehicle with a new lease on life. I no longer was immortal and had realized that it was time to seriously consider marriage and a family. With only a bruised forehead, I spent the night in the local hospital with no other physical consequences.

Two weeks later in a dream, I was in a small boat on a choppy sea. Suddenly the boat overturned and I was trapped underneath. And then came that generator sound and the smell of gasoline. I awoke abruptly, with my heart pounding in fear. Fortunately, that scene never reoccurred in a dream or in reality.

I married Jan in 1966 and now we had two children, one granddaughter and are soon to have our first grandson. I now have no fear of death but am still convinced that I will fight for life with all my might.

Postscript:

A few years after my experience with solitary immortality, I read of a solitary car wreck in Northern California where the motorist on drugs, came to in darkness and was convinced that he represented the end of the universe. He headed for the distant light of a farmhouse and was reassured that he was not alone. My own experience was without benefit of any alcohol or drugs, but the result was similar.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    December 1960

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   AccidentDirect head injury    Life threatening event, but not clinical death .


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      On being helped from the upside down sports car. I was so hyperactive I could not go to sleep in the hospital room until after I was given a pen and paper.  I wrote a two page description of my experience. (I have since misplaced it.) :-(

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I seemed to be in an altered state for many minutes, but it was only a minute or two.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    The voice, sensations and thoughts all seemed to have great finality associated with them.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     I seemed to slip quickly into a black vortex. It was inexorable, but quick.

With my later dream I forced myself awake before I slipped away.

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Only the deep distant voice of finality, 'Now you are Dead!'

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Awareness, dread, frustration and determination.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes     I never joined a church earlier, but explored, Mormonism, Religious Science, and am now an officer with the Community Church.

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I never joined a church earlier, but explored, Mormonism, Religious Science, and am now an officer with the Community Church.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That a series of events had caused ME to set unlikely events into place that triggered the end of the universe.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  I have joined the Lions to help in serving others and giving back to the community. I have gotten involved in other charity and educational activities, such as the Nature Preserve.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     I had several dreams of coming earthquakes in the 1980's that were very close to what happened.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       I changed my views of the future to involve myself, rather than to be a bystander.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I immediately showed the nurses what I had written and later, my colleagues, and later still reported it in my monthly newsletter.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definately not real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was probably not real.      I believe that the lack of oxygen plus gas fumes were the cause of the immediate experience. The dream two weeks later was an unpleasant flashback.

However, the events changed my life in terms of outlook, and goals.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   I described above the dream flashback of being trapped upside down.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Although it was unpleasant I believe it had a positive influence on my later life and made my science trained mind more accepting of things beyond science.

I urged a senior group to conduct a meeting on the subject of OBE's and we are doing that very thing tomorrow.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      It was quite good, but a little lengthy for some, I am sure.

Perhaps you should incorporate two levels beginning with #1-10, so that you could get greater participation. Then follow through with the rest of the questions, or similar.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jim_d_probable_nde.html