{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jim_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Jim B NDE 22252\/2176","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jim B NDE 22252/2176  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jim B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						601  Jim B NDE  22252/2176  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		Experience Description 22252:   

   					  I laid down for a nap, with a request to my wife to wake me at 3 pm if she didn't hear me up before then - I vividly remember noticing the digital clock in our bedroom showing 1:50pm.  I had to be at work at 4 pm.   My next recollection was being near the ceiling in our home's entry-way.  I saw a uniformed policeman just inside the door directing traffic coming into the house - towards the kitchen for other than medical personnel; towards our bedroom for medical personnel.  I was experiencing no pain, nor was I hearing anything - everything was eerily silent.   In an instant, I was in a corner of our bedroom observing paramedics tending to someone at the foot of our bed.  Again, total silence.  I remember not being able to force myself to look down to see who was being treated.  In another instant, I regained consciousness, lying on the floor at the foot of our bed, with paramedics trying to revive me.  I remember hearing the paramedics describe me as an ‘agitated’ patient - my vivid recollection was of coming-to with a large paramedic sitting on my chest to hold me down, while the other two were holding my legs and arms still.  I couldn't breathe.  I remember gathering what strength I could, then breaking loose from the paramedics and standing up.  The paramedics immediately put me on a gurney, and they strapped me down.  I was airlifted from my home to a hospital, one of two head-injury facilities in the area.  I had tripped getting out of bed, hit my head on the ceramic-tiled floor, and I had suffered severe bruising to my brain.  I was hospitalized for nine days, six of which were in the ICU.   During my experience, I felt no pain, nor did I hear anything - total silence.  I saw no lighted tunnel, or bright lights of any sort.  I was not given a choice of returning to my life or going forth with the death process.   

Background Information:    

Gender:    Male  

Date NDE Occurred:    May 17, 2004  

NDE Elements:    

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive  

The experience included:      Out of body experience  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I did not see myself in any form.  I was just ‘there’!  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      From a medical standpoint, I was unconscious.  But, as stated above, I have vivid memory of being near the ceiling in the entry-way of our house, then in the corner of our bedroom watching paramedics treat someone lying on the floor at the foot of our bed.  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I wondered why this was happening.  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes       

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No       

Did you see an unearthly light?      No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No     I visually saw - first from the ceiling in our entry-way, then from a corner in our bedroom - but I felt nothing physically, nor did I hear any spoken words.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I felt no emotion, per se, more a feeling of questioning what was happening.  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     From a corner in our bedroom, I vividly recollect watching paramedics coming and going - their primary focus was on someone lying on the floor at the foot of our bed.  I remember not being able to force myself to look down to see who they were tending to.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     From observing paramedics treating someone, I was instantly transformed to that person being tended-to, with all the pain that such an injury involves.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:    

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I now believe that we are all spiritual beings in human form, and that we will return to the spiritual world upon our death as humans.  I believe that our existence in the spiritual world will be as an aura, not physically seen, but felt.  

After the NDE:    

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Best - There was absolutely no pain of any sort; total freedom to move about with no boundaries. 

Worst - Was waking up to the pain of my injury, and the effects it had on my life and the unwillingness of many to believe anything about near death or out of body experiences.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Mainly disbelief, though most have tried to be sympathetic and understanding.  Some have tried to poke holes in my narrative.  Organized religion - heaven and hell - have a hold on the vast majority in this world.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I grew up a Catholic – in elementary and high school at Catholic institutions.  The stock answer to most religious questions was that "you'll learn the answer when you die."  My experience revealed that to be true, to an extent; but, if anything, it blew apart the heaven/hell myth so prevalent in organized religion.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      I was the one who brought up organized religion - this questionnaire didn't.  Keep it that way!  Please!      


            		Experience Description 2176:   

     I was going to nap.  I instructed my wife to wake me by 3 PM if she didn't hear me up at that time.  I laid on the bed and noted that the clock read 1:50.  My next memory was being in the corner of my bedroom watching people come and go.  It was eerily quiet.  In an instant, I found myself near the ceiling in our entryway.  I was watching and listening to a gentleman standing there directing people where to go:  the wife was in the kitchen being questioned; the victim was in the bedroom.   In another instant, I was lying on the floor of the bedroom with a paramedic literally sitting on my chest:  I couldn't draw a breath to tell him to get off; I thought I was going to die from being unable to breathe.  I remember calling on all my strength to throw him off me.  I was successful.  I managed to stand, and was immediately restrained by three paramedics.  I was then strapped to a gurney, and taken to a hospital.  I had evidently risen from bed, and in going out into the hallway tripped and cracked my head on the ceramic tile in the hallway.   Because of the fall, I suffered a broken toe when I tripped, and subdural and sub-arachnid hematomas to my head.  While I was in the corner of the bedroom and the ceiling in the entryway, I never saw my body being worked on.  The paramedics reported to my wife that I was being ‘combative’ - trying to crawl back into the bedroom.  Other than throwing off the paramedic because I couldn't breathe, I have no recollection of being ‘combative’.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 17 May 2004  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.  Accident     Direct head injury    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I have no recollection of being able to understand what was happening.  I vividly remember being in the corner of the bedroom watching people come and go; then, I remember being overhead in the entryway watching and listening to a gentleman ‘direct traffic’.  I did not observe my body.  While overhead in the entryway, I was not given a choice as to whether I wanted to stay there or return to my body.  One instant I was observing; the next instant I was lying on the bedroom floor with a paramedic sitting on my chest.  Only after the experience was I able to reflect on what had happened.  When I say afterwards, I mean almost immediately.  I shared the experience immediately and often with my family.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     I had no idea what was happening.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was like watching High Definition TV, as compared to normal:  all people and things were vivid; there was no darkness or shadows.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt a calmness and serenity I had never experienced before.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     The experience solidified my belief that we are all spiritual beings in human bodies for a time.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     The experience solidified my belief that we are all spiritual beings in human bodies for a time.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I do not let a day go by without telling my loved ones that I love them.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The church to which I go teaches that we are all spiritual beings.  I can understand this now, as I feel my spirit is what observed the happenings in both the bedroom and entryway.  There was a feeling of calmness and serenity I had never felt before.  Those feelings ended when my spirit rejoined my body.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    As quickly as I could, I told my family.  They were supportive.  As time has gone by, my wife seems to be somewhat skeptical.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had read and seen on TV reports of experiences such as I experienced.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Immediately afterwards, I was mystified and in a hurry to share the experience with my loved ones.  I didn't know what to make of it.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have lost a fear of dying as a result of the calmness and serenity I felt while out of my body.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jim_b_nde.html