{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jillian_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Jillian C NDE 9483","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jillian C NDE 9483  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jillian C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE and Possible NDE  						5099 Jillian C NDE 9483  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    #1 I was an ornery child as my mother says and always going my own way and years beyond my age at the same time.  I grew up with 3 siblings who I love dearly.  I wanted to play outside, but none of them wanted to come play with me that day so I went exploring our 10 acres alone for fun.  Parents always told us two things stay away from the cows and the electric fence.  I remembered the soccer ball went under the fence the day prior so I thought if I would save the soccer ball my siblings might come out and play with me then.  I was small and easily could fit under the fence to get it (and had done before I usually was the guinea pig) so I saw that the cows were nowhere to be seen so I at least listened to half of what the parents always preached and decided to move forward with my plan.  My last coherent memory was that I was on the ground crawling toward the soccer ball about to go under fence. 

All of a sudden, I am transported out of my body and surrounded by the brightest warmest light ever.  The only way to explain it is our true home it felt very familiar it felt like home.  I had never felt at "home" here on earth before or after this experience.  I didn't feel or see my body I believe I was more like pure light source that just flows like a river pure love and joy.  I was just so happy to be home.  Then I hear the purest sweetest voice that said, "come with me, or stay, the choice is yours, but if you stay it will be difficult."  It was only at this moment that I had realized I had died.  I immediately thought of my earthly family and how I didn't want them to be sad because I had died at such a young age and so as soon as I consciously made that choice to stay I was transported back into my body that felt light-years away.  Here is where it gets even more wild.  When I came to my body was 10 feet away from the fence, uphill a bit and when I sat up our cows were staring at me. The cows that were nowhere in sight before.  I sat there for a while or so I thought trying to process everything.  I eventually went inside and asked my siblings who were still playing video games how long I had been gone.  The most shocking part to me was when my sister said 30 minutes.  What felt like a lifetime to me was only 30 minutes!  I didn't dare tell anyone until years later because I didn't want to get in trouble for going close to the fence.  In case you were wondering I didn't save the ball it still was on other side and I never went near that fence again.  Kids listen to your parents! Although the heavenly being was right being here is very difficult after getting a taste of home I would still have made that choice even today.  I remained close to the church and was a strong believer in Jesus throughout my childhood years.

  #2 (age 25) I was not really scared to die after that experience so you can say I was a risk taker. It was/is hard to adapt to life on earth after an NDE it's almost like a part of me never really came back or wanted to.  I didn't treat my body very good because honestly I thought that what's the worst that could happen? I can get to go home again! This thinking ultimately led to my pride which ultimately led to my greatest downfall.  I went off to college and strayed from the church/Jesus like so many of us sinners do.  I graduated as a chain smoking, drunk, and identified as a lesbian at the time.  Fast forward a couple years later of a blur in my early 20s basically he'll on earth on a day to day basis.  I was called out of that lifestyle after some trauma that happened to me.  I quit drinking, smoking, and dating women all in the same day by the grace of God!  I finally went back to church.  I grew up in the Catholic church, but felt called to go to a Christian church.  Things were looking up, I repented from my ways and wanted to sin no more Jesus saved me yet again I owed whatever life I have left to Him.  Six months go by sober and an old drinking buddy begged to hang out just to see how I was doing which I reluctantly agreed to meet him for lunch I originally thought I was ready to help him of his issues.  As soon as I saw he was drunk with several others around noon I felt my gut aka God say to leave, but my stubbornness decided to stay.  He was trying to set me up with his lesbian friend.   Sign two I should have left.  I'm surprised at how easy it was to get me to have one beer. Fast forward twelve hours later my last memories were opening a bottle of whiskey and that girl trying to kiss me.  This NDE was the complete opposite of my first one.  

I went to a dark void I was always scared of the dark here on earth and literally I was living in complete darkness which was my worst nightmare.   I have a feeling the Lord saved me from experiencing true he'll this I could tell was just a taste of what awaits those who do not follow the Lord Jesus Christ.  What seemed like eternity in the void I realized I had died again and deserved to spend eternity there when I heard a loud angry boisterous voice that still haunts me to this day, "ENOUGH, LAST CHANCE!" I was then warped back into my body which was soaked in vomit and water that was overflowing from the toilet.  I was in a strange house several towns over from where I lived at the time.  Fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom and trust me I fear the Lord we all should!  It's been 7 years and I continue to walk close with the Lord Jesus and try to help anyone who has ears to hear the truth on their journey.  My two NDEs proves that heaven and hell exist and I don't want anyone to go to he'll.  Repent, sin no more and have eternal life with God our Father, maker of heaven and earth!   Jesus Christ is Lord!  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1997  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Other I do not know what body was doing was alone outside  #1 shocked by electric fence   #2 Drowned/alcohol poisoning  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   #1 more conscious and alertness  #2 Normal consciousness and alertness  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       #1. In bright light  #2. I just felt like nothing alone with just my thoughts  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time doesn't exist  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     #1 bright light   #2 complete void absent of light  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Same  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I believe it was God's voice in the 2nd NDE dark void  The first NDE I believe it was Jesus or an angel  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   That's all I could see  No tunnel for either  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was our true home keep eyes on things above!  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       #1 pure love, peace, joy.    #2 shame hopelessness  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     The truth  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   I didn't want my family to be sad of my early untimely death  

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Jesus is Lord  

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   Not sure what other Christian means I am a Christian  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience       

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     After 2nd one I feared God  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   Yes please see description  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   God or Jesus or an angel  

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I went to a place that felt like home so I must have been there before  

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     God is good  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Both experiences showed me that God does exist he loves us very much we must follow his rules it's a choice  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Now I have a purpose in life before I did not I was living for myself  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Praise God spread his love and words to the ends of the earth  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     #1 yes there is eternal life for those who choose Jesus  #2 there is only he'll for those who are not with Jesus  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     God is love  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I obey the Lord our God and live to serve Him  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Left my old life behind along with all of those friendships  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It's hard to explain with earthly terms things of the Kingdom of God  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     God gives different gifts to different people I'd rather not say I'm still learning about my gift  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of it  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Many years after first one - at first they thought I was crazy now most people believe I think I just got better at explaining the truth  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     Life on earth didn't seem real after  
  
  What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     I still remember and can feel like it was yesterday  
  
At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       A lot of it seemed repetitive            				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jillian_c_nde.html