{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jill_f_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Jill F Probable NDE 3206","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jill F Probable NDE 3206  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jill F Probable NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1209 Jill F Probable NDE 3206  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was informed that I had the choice to die or continue living. I was also told that there would be no turning back upon my decision.

Afraid at first, I was hesitant to leave my body. A spirit guide told me to breathe deeply. A sweet perfume scent filled the air, which made it easier to relax and let go. We went through a powder blue - white light. I was shown a glimpse of my future.

I continued on to a library of sorts. (I've since been to this library three times.) There were small groups of people or spirits in individual rooms called 'pods'. In these rooms the spirits or people, were planning their next life or reincarnation. I continued on with a person (spirit? being?) who was dressed in a monk gown. We went into the library where he proceeded to show me where the volumes of books were located that contained information on my various lives. He started to open a huge book called 'The Book of Knowledge', when a higher up in the chain of beings came forth. He informed the individual with whom I was with, that I knew too much. And that he was to stop, and not open this book. The monk said that he wanted to show me where I came from, as well as three other members of my family. The picture was of a galaxy. And, he did point out were we came from. All different locations in fact. The elder monk told him to stop at once.

I've since returned to the library, and the grounds around it. In fact, I did not want to return back into my body on my last visit. I've never known such a wonderful and loving feeling. Nothing like here on earth. I so look forward to returning.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1987

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Illness    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening' Illness, kidney disease


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   The entire time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      The entire time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   A bit faster than usual.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    Everything was intensified. The colors, the scents.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     While traveling through the powder blue - white light.

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     No I did not know them. They were guides of sorts.

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Powder blue and white.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The library.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I was frightened at first. But, my guides helped to calm me down.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I did not experience a review, although I was shown volumes of books containing my lives.

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I was shown a man who would be in my future. And yes, I've met him, and we are friends.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      No

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   As stated above. I've seen beings in 'pods' planning their future. And 'The Book of Knowledge'.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I believe I've been psychic all my life. Too, many experiences to write down.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       I still think about 'The Book of Knowledge' and the library I visited.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I am often sharing my experiences with family and close friends.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     I am sure that I have had out of body experiences. The other side is more intense, loving, and heightened in senses.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     Very real!!!!!!!!!

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jill_f_probable_nde.html