{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jewel_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Jewel S NDE\/ADC 31688","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jewel S NDE/ADC 31688  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jewel S NDE/ADC  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2024 Jewel S NDE/ADC 31688  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was very worried about Jim, but he sent me home because he said he was finished. I didn't want to go, I felt bad at leaving him. But I had a bad feeling so I had put half the airfare down to see him and tell him I loved him. When he died, I used the airfare to go to his funeral on November 1, 1980. His coming to me got me to call or I would have never got to the funeral in time. And his family didn't like me so they wouldn't have told me.

They were shocked I got there so fast. Over the years, his ghost has saved my life at least four times. Once when a rapist came through my bedroom window, Jim's ghost showed up and scared him off. Once when a home invasion intruder was strangling me he pulled her off. One more squeeze I would have been dead. The first time was 1981, the second time was 1987, and the third time was 1997. In 1997, I had locked myself outside in thirty below weather.  At night I was home alone. I was in my night gown; I tried to get in threw a window and got stuck half way. My legs would have frozen off. I couldn't move backwards or forwards, I then felt Jim's hands grab my forearms and pull hard. It hurt bad I later had black marks on my belly. I fell into the room on my face but my son's ten-speed bike broke my fall. It took me three baths of hot water to feel my kegs again. I never saw Jim, I felt him pull me out. My son didn't come in till the next day; the doctors would've cut my legs off.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  oct 30th 1980

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?              Yes

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Severe sadness and/or grief feelings

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Fully alert

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The few times I have seen Jim he glows and is outlined his clothes and body in every detail. He glows like a jellyfish in the sea

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard Jim's voice say, 'oh baby,' in a soft voice

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     no

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       He sent me I am sorry and I love you

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   church of england

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe there's more to life then what we see  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I know Jim has gone where he can't be hurt anymore through cancer or a broken heart and that he is with his beloved mother who he lost at a young age and all his friends and family. He sometimes comes in dreams to show me and I feel better. He is o.k.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best was when Jim came to me at his death. The worst I have to go on without him

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They thought I was nuts

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Because I was awake

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jewel_s_nde.html