{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jeter_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Jeter C NDE 22626","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jeter C NDE 22626  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jeter C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2941 Jeter C NDE 22626  					  				  			         			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Coming home from work at 12 midnight. I hit a deer on my motorcycle at fifteen miles per hour. I went to a place that looked like a theater.  On the screen appeared a walkway that went to the left. Could not see where it went.  I felt Jesus was sitting to my right. Felt totally accepted.  This place knew everything about me. Every thought I ever had. No words were needed. Every thought was known. Heavenly feeling is the only word I could find to describe this space.  Fluffy red surroundings I call a space. Woke up on ground with laceration to right side of head above right eye. Doctor in the emergency room said bad concussion. Felt a very high adrenalin level. Felt very strong physically. I got angry because I wanted to stay in this heavenly place.  I could not remember who I was or where I lived for 1 hour. I told myself to remember and did. My name flashed in my mind. I rode bike home and went to hospital and got ten stitches above my right eye.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1-19-2006

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident.  bike riding  hit a deer.  Life threatening event, but not clinical death riding bike and hit deer late at night after work  Head injury.  Doctor at emergency room said bad concussion.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  Did not experience a separation. But there has to have been one because my awareness was in a different place than my body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       My awareness was very good in this special place.  But my body was on the ground unconscious.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Saw an image of a man to my right. I felt it was Jesus Christ.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Being to my right as if we were sitting.  An image. Did not turn at look directly at him.  Felt a great being was present.

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I could see visually as if with my eyes.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Ecstasy until I revived.  The feeling of total acceptance and I had arrived at a space I had always knew existed.  This is it feeling.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     A feeling of total unity with all beings and this environment as if it was all connected with me.  It and I were all one being in total acceptance and caring love.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     As though no words or talk was needed. Every thought was known about me and every feeling too.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I knew this was how everything can be.  Apparently all studies are confirming oneness.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   background Baptist Christian

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     We are one.  Love and oneness is possible.  We are connected. The past can and does affect your present thoughts and actions extremely so. When memory is lost and there are no body sensations full awareness is heavenly.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   The feeling was so positive that the only word I could say was heavenly.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I saw a walkway similar to the experience that went to the left six years later at a doctor’s office when two swinging doors were opened.  I am much more aware of my actions and reactions in general.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The worst was waking up and realizing my body was damaged and I had been sent back to an earthly place.  A place that was hard.  The best is the knowledge that all the good I knew is there is there.  The possibilities in that place for love is endless.  No food needed. No air.  No bodily needs. You are one with this environment.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Many are caught up in everyday struggle. The ego will not allow an introspective approach. I understand and show them books that might help. Everyday help for them.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Saw a walkway like the one in my experience at a therapist office. A peaceful feeling came over me. If we become too attached to this life and our everyday struggles, we may never know this heavenly feeling.  We must take time to rise above our physical circumstances.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It has totally confirmed what I believed possible. To be totally one with the universe. Total acceptance and love for self by the universe. Total letting go of all memory.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       You've done well. I thank you for this opportunity.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jeter_c_nde.html