{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jessica_w_nde.html","mytitle":"Jessica W NDE 2710","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jessica W NDE 2710  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jessica W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						918  Jessica W NDE  2710  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  At the age of sixteen I had an experience which on the one hand I thought was beautiful but on the other hand it was rather frightening. It happened in the middle of the night, I had a cold and it became difficult for me to breathe because of my asthma. I was tossing, turning, and gasping for breath.

Suddenly I realized that I separated from my body hovering towards a sparkling bright light. I remember that I once more looked down at my lifeless body and then opted for the light. I felt that it was an endless tunnel.

It was comfortably warm there and I knew I would be all right. I saw my grandma holding out her hand towards me. It was rather strange that my vision of her was blurred and not as clear as I expected it to be.

I talked to my grandma about my mum and my granny said that I would have to take care of my mum, since her boyfriend would be up to no good and that he would become an alcoholic.

Up there I felt great so that I didn't want to leave it. I told my granny that I wanted to stay with her but my granny told me that that was not possible, it would not be my time and as she said that I was pulled back into my body. When I came back to life I felt as miserable as at the time before I left my body.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 Vor 8 Jahren ca  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain   Illness Allergic reaction     Asthmaanfall  'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   Asthma attack.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I can't explain it but I think I was more alert and perceptive.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Staying with my granny.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was blurred when I moved into the light. In the tunnel my vision was rather clear.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     There was a long tunnel with a sparkling white light at the end of it.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     In the light I met my granny but I could only see her silhouette.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   There was a long tunnel with a sparkling white light at the end of it.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither     es war wunderschön hell, eine blumenwiese oben im licht, es war warm und roch so gut..  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       It was beautiful and frightening at the same time.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw everything like in a movie - I didn't learn anything.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can see silhouettes from the corner of my eyes, I can tell someone's fortune from the cards and feel the presence of different people.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Twenty minutes. My mother was surprised but believed me.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   The usual encounters with the light but nothing new.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I can't explain it until today but I think that I suffocated during my attack of asthma.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jessica_w_nde.html