{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jessica_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Jessica P NDE 3739","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jessica P NDE 3739  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  				  					  						  					  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  								Layouts  								  					  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				   				  				  					  						  							  						  								  									  										 Near Death Experience  									  									  										   									  									  										 skype.inthefuture  									  								  						    							  							  								  									  									                                                                              									  									  									  									  									    								  							  						  					  				    				  				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							  							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  									  										  										  									  									  									  										  									  								  							  						  					  				</section>    			</header>  			  	  				  					Jessica P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1737 Jessica P NDE 3739  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I woke up in a hospital bed with a doctor sitting next to me holding my hand. Somehow, I had already known that I was in a bad wreck and what was wrong with me. I had fallen asleep during the ride!! As my friend as well that was the cause of the wreck she fell asleep behind the wheel.

Before I came to those several days later, it was almost as if the wreck would keep re-playing in my mind. I could see myself sitting in the truck, but from above. And very close as if I was sitting right on top of the roof with the top pealed back. It was as if that one little area where I was had been covered with a bright white light that was clouds or fog around me, but I could still see myself clearly. I saw myself lean over and look out of the window with a smile I didn't feel it, but we went over a meridian. I then saw myself turn to my friend who was driving once again with a smile that I just can't describe asking her with a giggle why are you going over the meridian. From there it was as if the white light took over and I could no longer see. Then everything was gone, went black.

One major thing that happened to me was when I woke up I couldn't see very well, I was seeing everything 3D due to major crushed bones and broken bones in my face. Yet somehow, you would think that if someone woke up not being able to see to that nature it would really freak them out. As I said, it was almost as if I had already known.

Months later, I received all of the police reports and hospital records. I still at that point was unaware fully of what happened to me. All I know was I had to be airlifted to the closest hospital or I would have died. Once I got the police report of what happened I got chills through my body as I read and saw photos of the same meridian from my dream. I call it a dream :-), for I really don't know what it was.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Dec 26th of 2006

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was in a very bad car wreck.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   None.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       None.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I kept reliving things, but they were things I knew hadn't happen.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Colors and brightness. I also always catch some type of blackness almost as if I can see someone standing off the side, but an all-black form.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Bright white light almost like clouds or fog around it.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Nothing really almost a blank feeling.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Very.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That I was in the wreck.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   That even to myself it seems almost impossible or unreal.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     But rather not speak of.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jessica_p_nde.html