{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jessica_d_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Jessica D Possible NDE 7653","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jessica D Possible NDE 7653  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jessica D Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			3927 Jessica D Possible NDE 7653  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in the hospital room standing in my gown.  Shortly after I delivered, my mother was standing several feet away and my boyfriend, at the time, was next to me. I cannot recall the reason I was standing.  It may have been because I had to go to the bathroom. I remember my mother began talking to me and all of a sudden, she sounded so far away.  It was exactly as if she was in a tunnel. Then I began to hear beautiful soft sounds of bells all around me.  Everything around me appeared to be immersed in white, as if we were in the middle of a fluffy white cloud. I told my mom that I was hearing bells all around and that she sounded so far away, as if in tunnel. Then I looked down and saw blood running down my leg. When I came to, I was on my knees.  Apparently I had lost consciousness and was being held up by my boyfriend (at the time), while the nurses that surrounded me brought me back to consciousness. Nevertheless, I never forgot that day.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  01/4/1994

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Childbirth.    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening.   I was haemorrhaging without being aware of it at that moment

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   During the experience I felt very much at peace and I was in awe over what my senses where experiencing.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was alert but I didn't understand this experience that was occurring

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     The tunnel experience, the cloudy surroundings, the light music of beautiful bells surrounding me happened all simultaneously.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Things were happening so suddenly and unexpectedly.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Voices sounded as though they were in a tunnel.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I remember my mom calling me, but she sounded like she was at the end of a tunnel.  As she continued to speak, she was going farther away.  The appearance of a cloudy, white matter around me makes me question what was really occurring at this time.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Acceptance of these new experiences, peacefulness

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I now believe that there is an afterlife.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     What I experienced went against my religious beliefs in which there is no afterlife after death.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife does not exist

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Not compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       I began to feel that there is a place we go to after death, and that peace and harmony are there.     I began to feel that there is a place we go to after death, and that peace and harmony are there.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of th   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of th

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have had many!! At the age of 25 when I worked as a waitress, a couple with their 2 month old baby came to the restaurant.  The baby was in her carrier and looked at me.  She wanted me to say her name. I didn't know how to let her parents know that I knew her name. I finally got the courage, because I felt a strong urge to say the baby's name, so I did.  The parents were so much in awe that I knew her name that tears ran down their cheeks. They asked me how I knew. I didn't know how to tell them that the baby communicated it to me.  At the age of 21, I experienced a Heavenly Being holding my hand as I lay sideways.  My boyfriend at the time was fishing. I was dreaming that I was holding my daughter's hand and when I awoke my hand was in the air. But this time, I was holding a man's hand, I squeezed it and it didn't disappear.  At the age of 22, when I worked as a key carrier, I experienced what felt like a small earthquake. I looked up: none of the light fixtures were swaying.  Then as fast as I felt it, at that moment two people appeared.  They were very tall with, ruddy wavy hair for both, both without shoes and they had clothing made out of potato-sack material.  They looked very out of place and surprised they were here.  Needless to say, no one else noticed them or my shocked face. They soon disappeared around the aisle.  Also on days that I felt an immense inner peace, my co-worker told me she liked to be around me because she felt very peaceful around me. I was very surprised at that.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The same day!!

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I just couldn't make sense of it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have been trying to find answers about what this all means.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jessica_d_possible_nde.html