{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jessica_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Jessica B NDE 20985","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jessica B NDE 20985  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jessica B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						693  Jessica B NDE  20985  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was installing an art show at a well-known non-profit gallery where I worked as lead preparator at the time. The artists show opening was that day, and they asked my help to remove paint from the floor of the gallery that they spilled the previous night. So while scrubbing in a pool of water on my hands and knees one of the artists placed a few clamp lights on the floor in an attempt to dry the floor. They were worried about the opening that night. I noticed the lights and said to the artist we had a floor dryer and mentioned that it was dangerous to place lights in a pool of water where someone was working (me).


I grabbed one of the lights while still on my hands and knees in an attempt to turn it off and the next thing I know a lightning bolt of electricity is running from the clamp light through my arms, chest and head. Then all of a sudden, this white, glowing, beautiful light surrounds me. It is a peaceful, amazingly comforting feeling. I feel so safe and whole, part of the universe. It is as if I am somehow part of a fog or mist of the universe. I am not scared and actually feel the most peace I have ever felt. And then suddenly, I am jerked back to my body.


I am holding the light and the three people in the room are standing over me. My whole body quivers and aches, I feel extremely hungry and sick all at the same time. I remember being in shock and standing up, walking out the building to the cafe down the street (I was a regular there) and relaying my experience as I slammed a sandwich like I hadn't eaten in a week. The guy who worked there said I looked very pale and I suddenly realized what really happened, so I staggered back to the gallery where I almost passed out twice. Everyone was there waiting for me, I guess I had made quite the scene on all fours holding a light with my eyes rolled back in my head being electrocuted. One of the artists thankfully noticed me after who knows how long. To me it seems like a year. Well she unplugged the lamp cord and that is when I came out of it. So my initial shock was followed by nausea, vomiting and general sickness for four days.


The gallery was a non-profit and had no workers comp for me. The gallery director called the hospital instead of bringing me in and they said that nothing could be done to alleviate severe electric shock aftereffects, so I was sent home to recover. My astounding recovery includes healing of old health conditions and clearer vision. Mental clarity and awareness of my personal powers and strengths, as well. I truly felt great and felt I had a calling in life.


Anyhow, I had suffered from complicated migraines and petite mal epilepsy since early teens prior to the incident. I haven't had a full blown seizure since then. (I still suffer occasional light flashes and headaches). I also pursued my career as an artist in earnest (with no money or support). I also discovered a new found fascination with light, electricity, and shadow. I guess it was the electric shock that really drew me to my true calling of making beautiful lights. It was really an awful feeling after I awoke from that experience to realize just how scary that was and that I was not ready to die, not at all ready to die.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    too many to list but will start with near death experience

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' electric shock (close to being electrocution)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was enveloped and absorbed by an all knowing, all loving light. I felt at home and at peace.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      It was at work during the day. I was wide awake and working.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   My experience seemed like many minutes.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     When I came back to my body, my mouth had dried cells in it and my body ached and buzzed with static electricity.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Peaceful, remorse, fulfillment, love.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I knew I was in a good place, but I was not ready.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   I have experienced OBE's since childhood but this was a near death life altering experience

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I believe in the power of love and the universe. We are in control of our destiny and our karma, but the universe provides the options.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I have more electrical current in my body and more powers of healing and astral projection (I have had out of body experiences since childhood), psychic powers, and dreams.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Best: the light, the truth, and the love I felt in the light.

Worst: the physical pain and vomiting/sickness.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I have many out of body experiences and maybe that actually saved my life during this near electrocution. I was somehow able to get back to my body after being in that wonderful place, I wanted to stay there (seems scary to me now).

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jessica_b_nde.html