{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jesse_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Jesse M NDE 3793","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jesse M NDE 3793  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jesse M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1774 Jesse M NDE 3793  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had lost too much blood during surgery. While I was in the recovery room, they were pumping fluids into me to try to bring up my blood pressure. It was supposed to have been a day surgery, so they wanted to get me out of there. The nurse told me to tell the doctor I was not going to leave. The doctor told the nurse to have me use the portable toilet, which was right next to my bed. I sat on the edge of the bed and then slowly stood up. I sat down on the seat and I remember thinking I am a little tired I think I will just rest here for a few minutes. 

I remember that a great sense of peace came over me. I still don't have the appropriate words to describe it. I didn't go through a tunnel or see a bright light, but I was surrounded by people I knew who had already passed on. Some, I didn't personally know, but I did know who they were. They were telling me how nice it was too see me again, and to finally meet me in person.

Next thing I know I hear many voices yelling. I am being jerked around. A voice is telling me to wake up. I open my eyes, I am surrounded by people, and I am on the floor. I am really pissed off that they have brought me back. The first thing I do is ask the nurse why they had to bring me back. I don't think I have ever been that mad before or since that time. I tried to explain what had happened and the incredible sense of peace that I had experienced.

The nurse told me I had just keeled over and hit the floor. She called a code and they brought me back. Needless to say they kept me in the hospital a little while longer.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  May 1996

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I had lost too much blood during surgery and they could not stabilize my low blood pressure.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As soon as I was among those who met me.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It seemed to have been a long time, but in reality it was a few minutes.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Extreme peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Non-denominational

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Same as above

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The sense of peace was and is still indescribable.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Seeing my grandfather.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Immediately as I was angry they had brought me back. I have told numerous people. Quite a few believe in NDE, some think it makes a good story, but are skeptics.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had heard the term, and heard you see a white light or tunnel. I don't think it affected me as I didn't think it would ever happen to me.  When it did happen, it didn't fit in with what I had heard.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It happened. I experienced it. No question on my mind it was a real event.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Same as above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am basically the same as I was before the event. I have never been afraid of death. I have always believed in life after physical death. This only confirmed my belief. I try to live by the golden rule, and most people describe me as laid back. My philosophy has always been don't sweat the small stuff, and ninety-nine percent of irritants are small stuff. It drives my wife crazy sometimes.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jesse_m_nde.html