{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jerry_s_nde_22125.html","mytitle":"Jerry S NDE 22125","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jerry S NDE 22125  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jerry S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1977 Jerry S NDE 22125  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					When I was seven years old my oldest brother asked me to go across the highway to get a pack of cigarettes from a vending machine. Our next door neighbor was backing out while I was at the edge of the property. She accidentally backed into me and knocked me down. I got up, shook it off, and told her I was all right. When I looked back at the street, the only car I could see was so far away and it looked blurry, because of the heat and fumes. I started to cross the street and the next thing I know, I feel like I’ve woken up. I was looking down at people who were looking down at me laying on the street. I was all but dead. The people were saying something about, ‘go get his sister, his sister lives over there,’ or something like that. What I remember is I willed myself back to my body after hearing that. With this accident, that is it. The rest are memories from healing in the hospital.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1974

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I was hit by a car while crossing a highway. It was a hit and run.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I don’t know if I had a form. Never thought about it until you asked. I always thought of it as a mind experience, while the body laid on the ground.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I seemed to be alert to what was going on. But only around the place where I lay.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I was looking down at people and my body on the ground.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I felt like I was the light. Or in the light. And I was looking down at the neighbors who were looking at my body.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I could see what was going on at the accident scene. It was like tunnel vision. I could hear the bystanders. I felt confusion at first, and then determination to get my body back.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Puzzlement at first, then a desire to get back to my body before it died.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I seem to remember concentrating on my physical body, like, willing my mind and body back into one piece.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   But how do you explain any near death experience so that somebody can truly understand it?

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have had psychic experiences since then. I have read up on these experiences. My feelings are ambivalent.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best and worst thing about the entire experience? That I survived.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Maybe a momentary, 'wow!' at lunchtime, but that's about it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I was doing mushrooms in Florida, and staying up all night. The next day, getting a ride home, I had an out of body experience. My spirit was up by the head rest of the car in an otherworldly sort of way. I was sixteen years old. It was 1983.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jerry_s_nde_22125.html