{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jerry_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Jerry M NDE 4417","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jerry M NDE 4417  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jerry M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2207 Jerry M NDE 4417  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My first experience in learning or hearing the same voices I heard and later engaged with during my Out of Body Experience, started when I was six years old. I was swimming in a lake with my younger brother who, upon our return from playing on a large navy raft in the lake, got tired and went under the water. He went under several times and no one was around. Neither of us swam well and I was not a good enough swimmer to help him. That is when the voices first spoke to me and told me how to save him, which I did.

The next occurrence was in college. I was on a football scholarship and I began to hear the same voices (I refer to them as 'The Boys' and that is not a sexist remark that is simply how I refer to them). They spoke to me then and I was able to know things would happen before they did and I was accurate more often than not. I then had my out of body experience in 1978. I was not spoken to again until the late 1980's. That is when I went back to meditating and began my pursuit of other truths on this plane, eventually arriving at nature based spirituality as what settles as truth in my being. Stephen Hawking said, 'Too often we think of ourselves as human beings here for a spiritual experience, when the truth is, we ARE spirit beings, here simply for a human experience.' This quote I took into meditation and that is when I spoke with 'the boys' again and I was made privy to what I know to be the truth for me about why we are here.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  June 1978

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Accident  Broken neck  Other Car accident.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was completely conscious from the moment I found myself a hundred feet above my car accident and realized I was looking at myself in the car. I knew immediately I was dead and several questions came to me and were answered at the same time they were asked.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no time! Time as I know only exists here.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Once I realized I was dead (I make this point as many call it 'near death experience' and I take issue with that as I find most who define it as such, have not experienced it) I was pleased to be able to see and hear and remember everything I had remembered when I was alive. It was then I realized there was no such thing as death. I know now the truth of why we are here.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was not so much a tunnel as it was moving through space. There was light around me but nothing like the light that seemed to occupy the whole of my view as I looked toward it.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I was spoken to from the moment it happened until I returned AND immediately afterward.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was like passing through space and the light I saw was ahead of me and it occupied the whole sky and my whole field of vision as I moved toward it.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I simply saw what I was passing through as space and where I was headed toward, a horizon of light with a wonderful sense of going home!

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       When you realize there is no such things as death, you become euphoric as you no longer need to 'believe' in life after death; you KNOW it! Since that moment, there had been no fear in my life as there is nothing IN this life to be afraid of. I also realized that this life all happens in the time frame of a split second. There is NO TIME on other planes, just here.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     My life was reviewed but very quickly almost in an instant as I was taken by the fact that I could see and hear and had come to realize there is no such thing as death. Sure the body dies, but that body is NOT who we are.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     This also took place on a much stronger level when I was in college and I could predict things that would happen before they did. I saw a counselor for this and came to learn that this was good as it continued to happen and I became comfortable with it and welcomed it. It does not matter any longer.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   'I was brought up Catholic.  I studied Ze Bhuddism in College and for several years afterward.  In 1980's I studied Native American Spirituality, and now am a nature based spiritualist.'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     I am not a religious person and it is my knowing that leads me to understand that the religions of the world offer a walk to those who need a path to walk that fulfills their obligation. I understand many take their beliefs to heart and others simply follow out of fear. I know that religions more often than not get in the way. People need to go within, not go outside to some ceremony or structure. The gift they are is always within them.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   I live in the forst with my wife and we are nature based spiritualists who occassionally do Inipi or Sweat Lodge.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     I am not a religious person and it is my knowing that leads me to understand that the religions of the world offer a walk to those who need a path to walk that fulfills their obligation. I understand many take their beliefs to heart and others simply follow out of fear. I know that religions more often than not get in the way. People need to go within, not go outside to some ceremony or structure. The gift they are is always within them.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew clearly there was no such thing as death EXCEPT physical death and that is not who I am (the body). I also have come to know why we are here and I have learned the truth about 'God'. I do not know if that truth for me is the same as it is for others, but it seems to be perfectly clear for all when I think about it.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes My wife currently and my wife with whom I was married to at the time, both know this to be truth as what has come to pass in my knowing since then, and my ability to predict things, has been the proof.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I did for a time and then again later in the 1980's. I have also come to learn that this does not matter except on this plane.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It is impossible to separate the experience as it is all a part of the experience. It would be like asking someone to make a wheel and leave out some of the spokes. That would deem one part more important than the other.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Since the moment it happened until now, I continue to share this experience. That having been said, I have become particular about who and when I share it as it is not meant for everyone to hear as many are simply not ready as their fears still guide them. Yes, many have been influenced however, they have been influenced by me to go within themselves for that is where they will discover the gift they are.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I do not know if I would call it knowledge. I had studied many things and I embraced what I had come to hold as truth. It seemed to coincide with the experience but to a much smaller level. There is no substitute for the truth of experience. When believing turns to knowing, one no longer needs to believe!

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was three to five years later I left the job I was in as I could no longer do that job as I was compelled to share the experience with people. I was in the financial planning field and the reaction of accountant types made me have to choose between staying in that line of work or sharing the experience. I chose to share.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I live the walk of knowing!

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   My walk is now free of human concerns. We are spirit beings, not human beings!

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No, I think that pretty much covers the basics.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jerry_m_nde.html