{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jerome_d_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Jerome D Possible NDE 6666","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jerome D Possible NDE 6666  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jerome D Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			3307 Jerome D Possible NDE 6666  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					At one year of age, I suffered from hydro-encephalitis. I learned this from my parents at around the age of eight. They told me the diagnosis at the time was either that I would die or that I would be mentally handicapped. I pulled through, but the experience left me profoundly changed. As a child, I always felt different from others, like I didn't quite fit in. I started having panic attacks during the night when my parents were out. I would look out the window for hours until I saw their car pull into the driveway and then I would go back to bed before they saw me. My family was Catholic and I had strong emotional connections to the mystical aspects of that faith. 

As a teenager, I was involved in several religious and faith-based activities and at the age of 18, I felt called to serve God as a priest. After 2 years of exploring that possibility, I finished university and became a teacher. As soon as I got a job, I went into therapy because I really felt like something was wrong with me. In therapy, I connected with past lives, one in Africa and one in Japan. I felt fear every time a plane flew overhead and eventually I realized that I had died in the nuclear attack on Hiroshima. Throughout my 20 and 30, I still felt very alone and had very few friends but I did marry and fathered two children. I continued to suffer from anxiety and eventually left therapy after 19 years. My marriage ended shortly after and I am now living alone and have shared custody of my two sons. Looking back now on the events of my life, my big questions are, 'who am I and why am I so alone?'

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1962

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Illness    Other: unsure because of age

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It felt like seeing the reality behind everything we assume is real.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       My memories of the event have been cumulative over the years but the strongest feeling is when I crossed over and experienced pure love

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     The experience was timeless. It seems as real to me now as it did 50 years ago.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I don't remember what my vision was like before.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't remember.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I have relived the feeling whenever I have gone through or near a tunnel or passage with a bright light.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was unlike any earthly light I have ever seen. Bright but not blinding, no heat, inviting, all-consuming but without taking away, penetrating, enfolding in the most gentle and profound way imaginable.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     One of the ways I have described it in the past is 'the undiscovered country'.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt bliss, peace, joy, serenity, freedom.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     An understanding, but of a spiritual nature and not an intellectual one.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Unknown

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have distanced myself completely from all religious affiliations because I'm extremely hesitant to view God as being outside of me.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Consistent with who I was having just come from the spiritual plane but inconsistent because my beliefs were not yet formed.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     From what my parents told me, I was a happy baby, and on some level I have always been happy and very optimistic. The experience gave everything more intensity.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   In retrospect I believe Jesus might have been part of the experience. My therapist saw him standing next to me during one of my sessions. Even as a young child I felt him very close to me.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     I sensed a unity but I couldn't conceptualize it at the time.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     I sensed that God existed but I couldn't conceptualize it at the time.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I sensed I was sent back for a reason, but I couldn't conceptualize it at the time.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Uncertain     I sensed that the universe exists because of love but I couldn't conceptualize it at the time.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     It marked me in very profound way. From that point, I become at once, more connected and more alienated from everyone around me.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I find it very difficult to relate to other people. As much as I need to be close to others and feel a sense of belonging, I am very much alone and isolated.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Because of my age I couldn't, but today I have found ways to express it.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   It is the only memory I have at that age.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I am clairsentient. I can feel auras and chakras through my hands.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Very sporadically and in limited ways. It feels too important to me to share casually. My ex-wife did comment that it's difficult for someone with that experience to be in this world.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It took me years to accept the reality of the experience and I am really hoping to come to terms with why it happened

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Because this was such a turning point in my life, I believe it's critical that I explore the 'why'.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Many, many things have triggered a strong emotional reliving of the experience, from being in nature to music to dancing, to any talk of God as divine love. Anything that has caused me to feel free and joyous brings me back to that time, but the feeling is usually a mixture of extreme joy and intense sadness.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Not at this time.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Maybe a question geared to people who had their experience as a baby.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jerome_d_possible_nde.html