{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jeri_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Jeri S NDE 4944","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jeri S NDE 4944  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jeri S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2538 Jeri S NDE 4944  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was being observed during pregnancy and was admitted into the hospital's high-risk labor and delivery department. I began feeling ill, and was taken to an examination room with two nurses, who were taking vital signs. I became increasingly nauseas, and I heard the nurse say my pressure was dropping. She put a cup under my mouth to puke and told me it was okay.  She yelled for something; don't remember what. At that point, my arms dropped off the table and one nurse kept saying numbers louder and louder, and other nurse was slapping my arm, then the back of my hand trying to give me a shot. She was saying stay with me, calling my name, telling me to make a fist, telling me stay awake and help her. I didn't want to be awake, it finally felt so good to not be sick, or in pain, or have any problems. I saw a bunch of doctors run in the room, and a nurse was putting masks on them while they were yelling at my face. 

At first, I wondered what they were doing and I realized I was seeing it all from above them. Why were they turning my face when I was over here? Why were they raising my legs so high in the air, and what was that noise? From up here, I saw all the activity going on.  I couldn't understand why. There was a bright light kind of ahead of me, meaning that I could see over all the people, but there were lights on under me too from the doctors. It is just now, wow, that I realized this was not a room light. I did not acknowledge it at the time, because the doctor was saying the baby was in danger and won't make it, and asked if they had a signed form, he asked 'Do we save mother or the baby?' and I thought THE BABY, I'm right here, I don't need to be saved. I wasn't frightened, scared or worried at all. It is what it is, or was, I guess.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  January 1991

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Childbirth    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was having a difficult pregnancy, where baby was in danger, not myself. I was being monitored for early contractions, when apparently, blood flow stopped.  My pressure dropped and I was sick to my stomach. So, in a way it was life-threatening, but I didn't know (like in an accident) I was mildly concerned for my son - only mildly because I KNEW he would be fine.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I think the last seconds, when I realized I had to let them know that I was okay, we were both okay.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was and still is very clear. There was no interference; there was darkness all around like in my peripheral vision (but I don't remember looking anywhere else), except for the light above or ahead of me, but I looked down, and was clear what they were doing, sharp but don't remember too much color except green gowns, and that I looked very pale and very still lying there. I remember seeing the doctor's hand on my belly, and seeing that he was giving me an internal exam, and looking at the clock above my body, but below where I was. Strange.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I remember hearing beeeeeep alarms going off, and doctor's voice, very clear then goes back to everyone talking at once a lot of noise.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I think I chose not to go further. But from where I was on the table to where I got above myself, there was nothing, here one minute then above, no transition.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     In remembering, I do get a sense of my grandmother, but do not have memory of seeing anyone, I do remember thinking of her after.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Stated above. Did not know what it was, or feel drawn to it. Didn't remember it.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calm, see above.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I only KNEW my baby was okay, why were they so worried and working so hard? What was the problem? I didn't know they were trying to save me.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain Maybe with my son. He was as I said, high risk, we worried he was ill, had placenta Previa and placenta abruptia whole pregnancy, he was believed to possibly have cerebral palsy or brain damage from low oxygen levels, and expected low birth weight. He was born exactly at term date, only half an ounce shy of 10 lbs, and was perfect in every way. I was on total bed rest for six months, and this episode happened about a month before his birth.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   The feelings I had were neither frightening or wonderful, I just felt very calm, and wondered why the doctors would ask whether there was a 'signed release form to save the mother or the baby'.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I don't know. I am still trying to piece things together, have a lot of lucid dreams and sleep paralysis nightmares some in hospitals with babies.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The fact there was no decision to be back, no leaving, just BOOM I was back on the bed. Seems significant, because I would think there was some kind of choice but nothing. Maybe was spiritual, not physical. I don't know.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I did not for a long time, did not feel it mattered to anyone. I recently told my son whom I was pregnant with, and as I didn't tell him all of it.  He was still a little freaked out by what I did tell him, I generally don't say anything. I am very good at reading people, and will not say anything to anyone who is not in the same mind frame. I don't feel the need to tell anyone, it is very personal experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   It was something that might have happened to somebody somewhere, but never heard from anyone. Like a myth maybe?

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I didn't think about it, or talk about it. I figured I heard it, like the nurse said, but became much more real as time went by. It has been nineteen years, and I still remember it as being vivid, and recall every detail. Some I didn't remember before. But then, it was very faint.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     As above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am still learning, and I appreciate the opportunity to write this. I think it helped me somehow.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Maybe ask if it scared people after? Or, if people thought you're crazy if you implied you had one. That's the feeling I get if someone brings it up, so I don't!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jeri_s_nde.html