{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jeremy_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Jeremy Probable NDE 8096","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jeremy Probable NDE 8096  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jeremy Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			4218 Jeremy Probable NDE 8096  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My experience began one cold night as a lost 13-year-old child.  I was living in the lonely confines of a boarding house. I was taking drugs, or anything that was available at the time, as a way of escaping reality.  This became habitual. I had no form of income, so I used liquid petroleum gas.  I would remove the locks from my window and would slip through the window and into the night. I would usually go across the street to a school. I would look for a large gas cylinder and escape my world. 
 
 I find myself 'somewhere' that I now call a tunnel. It was a grayish-dark-type color with blotches all through it.  The best way I could describe this tunnel is it was like being wrapped in a space made from the static on your TV when it fails to receive a signal. Along with that is what I call a Universal humming that was pleasantly familiar somehow. At this point, I become aware of a sudden knowing and feelings of oneness with everything. I had no real sense of the Universe at that time.  I was too young and stupid even to consider the cosmos.  But today I think of the experience as if I was speeding up so fast through the Universe and I knew absolutely everything about everything. I became one with everything that ever was and everything that ever will be. I knew I'd left the physical world somehow because I specifically remember saying to myself, 'Wow, I've got to bring this knowledge back!' 
 
 In the tunnel, I learned the secrets of the Universe, meaning of life, reasons for war and poverty, cruelty and everything else. Everything made complete sense and I needn't question anything. Then seemingly, out of nowhere, I found myself at the bottom of a short staircase. At the top of this staircase, stood Jesus Christ himself. I'm absolutely overwhelmed by joy and happiness. I'd never ever been so happy before. He stood, as a being of warm light. He was bright and completely welcoming, with arms out, as if to accept me. Just as I was about to run into his arms, BAM, (like a car that I never saw coming), I was 'squished' back into my body. There are no words to describe the feeling; it was just horrible. 
 
 I suddenly find myself, lying on the cold, dark school lawn.  I was still overjoyed by Jesus. I was just with him, so where is he now!? I immediately jump to my feet and begin running toward the school by the stairs.  It's the logical thing to do because the stairs in my vision were similar to those at the opposite end of my location. I was just stunned that I somehow don't recall the physical travel from there to my current location, but this does not bother me now. All I want to do is get back to Jesus. I'm now getting close to the stairs but cannot see his light yet. Time (seemingly) slows to milliseconds and I'm really closing in now.  Yet, I still fail to see this light. I make it all the way to the stairs and he's not there.  There is no light, only darkness.  I'm shattered and deflated. It makes no sense.  I walked back across the street, slipped back into my window, went to sleep, and never to think of it again. 
 
 That is until around 18 years later, when I see a TV show about near death experience. The show has me saying excitedly, 'Hey, I've had one of those!' I'm intrigued, I begin to watch more and more, and become wondrous as I begin to come across those similar to mine.   This is the first time I've opened up about my personal experience. I've always felt that this should never be shared with anyone because it was so sacred and dear to me.  But lately, I've become so depressed because it changed me so much, and it continues to become harder and harder to deal with for me as time goes on. I just want to get past the continuous thoughts, wonder, and move on.  I want to integrate myself back into the community like a 'normal' person. This experience has forever changed the way I am. I can no longer work a normal job. I can no longer stand small talk or ignorant people who are, in my eyes, living a life of non-purpose believing it to be truth.  I can't stand many things now and live a quiet rural life, running my own business where I'm the sole employee, working by myself.  
 
 What makes my experience so amazing to me is that religion, or anything like this, was the farthest thing from my mind at the time. My Mother never believed in God, or religion. In fact, she would snarl like the devil himself anytime it was bought up, so I never believed or had much of an inkling even to think much about it. At the time of my experience, I recall owning a heavy metal band T-shirt by 'Deicide' and may have even been wearing it at the time of my occurrence. If my experience weren't true, why would I have had the encounter with Jesus? It may as well have been the cookie monster. It's because of this:  I know Jesus is indeed real. I don't go to church, never have had much of a further inkling to study the bible or anything.  I just know that Jesus exists and that he cares for me.  I love him, too. I cannot remember any of the things I told myself to 'bring back.' They were lost as soon as I re-entered the physical realm.  As I grow older, this experience becomes more and more profound. It is sometimes both a blessing, and a curse.  But if I had my time again, there is no way I'd have it any other way. I know now what's important and what is not. I just wish society knew, too.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1998

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident         Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  As above  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I knew everything.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     More 3D

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Don't recall

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   As above

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Knowingness and love

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Atheist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believe in a supreme force now.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Do not know   Spiritualist

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I'm completely different now.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably does not exist

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     God definitely exists.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably does not exist

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     Yes

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I moderately fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Not compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I still fear dying because it can be extremely fearful and painful. Death is fine though, after dying, that is.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I dislike the majority of society. I'm very fussy about friends. I only choose genuine love. I cannot stand authority. I love animals and cruelty toward them gets me down. I get drained easily in crowds or talking with people in small talk.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     Took me 18 years to acknowledge.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     Sometimes I want to go back when this cruel World gets to me. I again wonder why such cruelty can be allowed.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   I've had reinforcement from God several times.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jeremy_probable_nde.html