{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jeremy_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Jeremy M NDE 20308","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jeremy M NDE 20308  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jeremy M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						340  Jeremy M NDE  20308  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I remember running on the playground of my elementary school chasing a fellow student in a game of tag. I then turned a corner and at full speed smacked right into a fellow student. The kid was taller than I was and I assumed he was in a higher-grade level. After realizing I had banged heads with the kid, I then grabbed my head and started to fall.  I could faintly hear the boy say, 'Man that kid has a hard head.' Next thing I knew I was going through a bright light and I felt the deepest calm of my life. Once I got through the light, I turned around just in time to see my body get up, run, then fall underneath a swing. I then looked around at the playground everything was white.


I then thought of going home to see my mother. At the speed of thought, I zipped from the playground to the top of the cliff where I had lived. I don't know why but before reaching my house. I stopped in front of the fire station, which is right next to the park at the top of the cliff. I then looked down the street towards the little gas station. Everything was white still. I looked around up at the water tower and down the street back towards the gas station. The only thing that stood out from all this was a figure walking towards me in the distance. The figure was completely black, so black that I couldn't make out any features but his general shape.


I looked at the being that was approaching for a few seconds and then I thought of going home again. I then turned towards the road that took me home and I zipped so fast down that road that in the next instant I was on my street looking at my house. As I was looking at my house I heard a voice say, 'Go back.' I paid no attention to the voice and preceded to go forth but the voice said again much more clearly, 'Go back, it's not your time.' I then thought, 'No, I'm going to see my mother and I don't want to go back.' I preceded up to my front door and as I was about to open it the voice changed into my mother's voice and said even louder, 'Go back, it's not your time.' I then said, 'I don't want to go to school; I want to stay here with you.' I tried to open the door. Then the voice said in a stern voice, 'Go back to school now!' I hesitated, and then the next thing I knew, I was in my body.


I opened my eyes for a second to see all my classmates and a teacher standing over me. I then closed my eyes and tried with all my heart to go back. There was an overwhelming feeling of calm I didn't want to leave it. But no matter how hard I tried I couldn't go back. I tried for who knows how many minutes.  I had a full grasp of everything in my body but in the end, I couldn't go back. I ended up waking up with everyone still over me. I then grabbed my head because it began to hurt very much. My friend helped me up and I went to the nurse.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    1990

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No   Accident     concussion

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I never looked at myself.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was alert the whole time.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Going around my town at the speed of thought was different.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Other than the voice I don't recall any other voices.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     The playground and different parts of Ohio.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes

The experience included:      A landscape or city

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      The most blissful calm I ever felt in my life. It was wonderful and words cannot describe it. I wanted so hard to return to that feeling.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   It was partially me listening to the voice and the voice sending me back. Mostly it was the voice sending me back.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Made me more spiritual.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Ever since then I could see my own future in my dreams. It's not like I can see what's going to happen tomorrow, but I see places I've never been to and people I have yet to meet. Most of the time its glimpses but they always come true. Sometimes when it's important, I see a couple of minutes at a time. It's all hard to explain and no, I don't think I'm psychic. I can't see other's futures only my own.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      I would like to know what you thought of my experience and I wouldn't mind you emailing me back and telling me.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jeremy_m_nde.html