{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jeremy_m_fde.html","mytitle":"Jeremy M FDE 3123","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jeremy M FDE 3123  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jeremy M FDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification FDE  						1119  Jeremy M FDE  3123  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I lived in Zimbabwe, Africa and was driving back to boarding school with my cousin in the front passenger seat and two friends in the rear of the vehicle. I came up to a truck that indicated it was turning right (Zimbabwean drivers drive on the left-hand side of the road). It was dark, and I could see no oncoming vehicles but decided not to overtake as I assumed the truck would soon be turning off to the right onto a side road. The truck continued at speed, showing no signs of slowing down to turn. After several miles, I concluded that the truck driver did not realize that the right indicator was on, so I began to overtake, increasing speed to around 70- to 80mph, as I did so. As I drew level with the front of the truck, it began to turn right onto a side road entrance. By doing so, the truck had effectively blocked my exit, forcing me towards a deep storm drain on the side of the main road. 

At this moment in time, bearing in mind where I was heading and the speed I was doing, I knew I was going to crash and that I was going to die. Even though I knew death was inevitable, I remained remarkably calm and time seemed to almost stop, as though everything was happening in slow motion. The next thing I knew, I was in darkness watching a detailed review of my life up to that point. It was like watching a huge cinema screen in 3D and it was incredibly detailed in that it, literally, covered every event in my life. I remembered events, people and places that I had long forgotten. It was as if I was effectively reliving my entire life although it was done at high speed. I sensed there were beings around me (although I did not actually see them) and they made it clear that they were not judging any part of my life. I got the impression that this was my life; that I should observe it and then consider any aspects that I wished to discuss. 

Once I absorbed this information, I was then informed that it was not my time and that I should return. I was loathe to do so as I had a feeling of such absolute calm, love and peace which is simply not possible to describe. The next thing I knew, I was back in the car driving along as if nothing had happened and saying to myself that this was not possible. It seemed the passengers in the car were totally unaware of what had happened. It was as if any memory had been erased from their minds. Although this 'incident' occurred over 43 years ago, every detail is as fresh in my mind as it was seconds after I returned to the car.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    1964

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' .  The threat of a serious car accident.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      When I was watching the review of my life.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Although the entire incident could not have lasted more than 10 seconds earth time, it seemed much longer than that, wherever I was. Time seemed to be completely different, if it existed, as we know it, at all.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    Everything was brighter and more vivid than in everyday life.

  				    Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    There was no hearing as such, more like telepathy.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Uncertain

The experience included:      Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The life review certainly took place in a different dimension as I did not seem to have a physical body.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Incredibly high levels of peace, calmness and unconditional love. General level of awareness and comprehension very advanced.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     It made me realize that we survive physical death and that far from being a terrifying experience, it was actually an amazing experience that I will never forget.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      No     I no longer have any religious beliefs. I do have spiritual ones though.

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No     I no longer have any religious beliefs. I do have spiritual ones though.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   What I experienced was outside the field of normal physical experiences and therefore finding the appropriate words based on a physically based language was difficult.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I seemed to have acquired a measure of psychic abilities. My intuitive sense increased dramatically.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The experience itself was very significant. My whole attitude to life and death changed. I was no longer afraid of death and was happy to take greater risks than I had before

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     I was initially very happy and relieved. I knew, without a doubt, it was real and that I had not imagined it. It opened up my mind to the endless possibilities of who and what we really are. It made me more questioning and inquisitive.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     It happened 43 years ago and is as fresh in my mind today as it was when it occurred. I have never forgotten a single detail.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      No, other than to say it was an experience never to be forgotten.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jeremy_m_fde.html