{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jeremy_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Jeremy H NDE 2902","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jeremy H NDE 2902  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jeremy H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2902 Jeremy H NDE 2902  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

Vehicle broke down on the side of the road. I was changing out my fuel pump under the truck. I told my friend to stand behind the trailer with a flash light in case someone came by us on the side of the freeway, so they wouldn't hit us. Then before I knew what happened, I heard a scream; I got knocked out and awoke to staring underneath the trailer at the back of the truck. I was trying to crawl out and my legs wouldn't move and couldn't figure out what had happened. Then someone asked do you need some help. I couldn't answer. I just held my left hand out so I could be pulled out. When he pulled on my arm, seven of my ribs that were broke pierced my lung. I yanked my arm back. Still confused and dazed looking at the concrete. I noticed a big pool of blood dripping from my head. I lost consciousness again. I woke up on the stretcher in the ambulance, and passed out again.

Sometime between unconsciousness and waking up in the hospital I had a weird encounter with the girl who died in the wreck and what I presumed was God and the devil. It was as if a court room made of stone and then in the shadows were black hooded entities. The light of the fire I seen white hooded ones. Between, the podium where the girl and I were standing, was like a pit of fire and on the other side was the white hooded entity. I looked across on the other side at the white hooded entity and things were so bright. I turned to look at the girl I was with and she was begging, crying, and screaming for her life, or so she could get a second chance. I looked back at the light and turned back to look at her and she was gone. Then I woke up in the hospital to police to tell me she was deceased and where to find her next of kin. I think she went to a bad place and I was given a second chance in this wheelchair to what I will make of it now. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 'AUGUST 28,2002'  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  Surgery-related     I WAS HIT BY A DRUNK DRIVER.  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   The girl with me was killed instantly.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   Right after I awoke under the truck.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Right after I awoke under the truck.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     White hooded in the lights and black hooded in the dark.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw a light in between being unconscious and conscious.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     IN BETWEEN BAD AND GOOD.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Confused, mad, numb, hot and sweating.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     Yes to don't do bad things and you won't go to hell.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From personal future        I awoke to my friend being deceased.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate   CHRISTIAN  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The presence of the unknown. Bloodcurdling screams of the girl who died in the accident that was with me.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was about two months. They acted scared. Not really.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was given a second chance and was shown what could happen if I don't straighten my life up this time.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jeremy_h_nde.html