{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jeremie_l_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Jeremie L Probable NDE 7556","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jeremie L Probable NDE 7556  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jeremie L Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3878 Jeremie L Probable NDE 7556  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was on the surgery table and so my eyes were closed, and I was in the state of general anesthesia. 

I had a moment of expulsion out of my body, where I found myself floating in the air, and the pleasure of being able to see everything that happened around me; the discussions of the doctors, and life without me. After a short time, I saw a kind of tunnel of absolute whiteness, full of Love and joy. I entered into this tunnel and at the end I saw my grandparents and my uncle who died when he was in his twenties. I only knew my grandfather; it was happiness for me to know that they were fine. They asked me to join them in order to experience this moment eternally. I accepted immediately. As soon as I said, ‘Yes,’ a silhouette that strongly resembled Mary said to me, 'It's not your time, look'. She showed me my father on the way to see me, my mother starting to feel anxious as a doctor went to meet her and my sister. She then told me, 'It's not your time, please you have to go back down there, and then, I will give you something that you inherited'. At these words, I said good-bye to my relatives, quite sad to leave them, and the angel Gabriel took me down to earth. 

At this moment, I suffered much pain as I had taken back my body that made me suffer. When I woke up, I was in intensive care and had bags of ice on my cheek. After a long time, a nurse 'transferred' me to her fellow stretch bearer to take me to my room where my mother was waiting for me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Juin 2006

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain     While under general anesthesia      Other En cours d'opération  I cannot say exactly what I felt, as there had been feelings of fear and anguish at the beginning, then ending with great joy and absolute happiness.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  For example the discussion between the doctors, and the person that went to see my mother, who was worrying for me, to tell her that the surgery took longer than expected.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At the moment when I saw my family

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     For me it was a long time, but in reality it was short. I have the conviction or the sensation that time is a facet of human life, and once gone it doesn't exist anymore.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     No change

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No change

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Tunnel of white light and serenity: Only happiness!

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My grandmother, my grandfather, my uncle

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   An immaculate white light

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     At the beginning it is an unknown place, but with the encounter of my deceased family it became a harmonious and peaceful place, where evil does not exist.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       At the beginning anguish, and almost all the rest was Love, joy and an incredible lightness. Above all: peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I felt like I crossed several astral planes.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No     Possible previous lives

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     I cannot explain here: Too personal.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I accepted my death, but was told that it was not my time.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Atheist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Towards Christian belief.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   Cet expérience m'a fait réfléchir et je me suis tourné vers le baptême, et actuellement, sur le chemin de la confirmation.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs I had at the time of my experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Taking some decisions in a different way

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   The Holy Virgin, Archangel Gabriel, my grandmother, my paternal grandfather and my uncle.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   Holy Virgin Mary and Archangel Gabriel

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     Previous lives.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     Same as with question 32

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     You have to question yourself, have to give love to others, make them happy and make good choices for our actual life.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Meeting me if you have questions, as it is personal

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     You have to question yourself, have to give love to others, make them happy and make good choices for our actual life.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Giving love without expecting some in return

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life.  I got baptized, and am now on the way for confirmation.     Large changes in my life.  I got baptized, and am now on the way for confirmation.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I had sensations of lightness, as if my body was like a 'cannonball' for me, and an intense Love. Finally, somebody who understood me and who was not judging me by my physical appearance.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Idem as 32

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Everything

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My parents, certain friends

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It took me years before I understood what happened really. I didn't tell it immediately to my parents what I experienced, as I didn't realize it and told myself that I was the only one having experienced this, and that people would think of me as being nuts.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I look at life differently.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   People around me that had an experience.        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jeremie_l_probable_nde.html