{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jeremiah_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Jeremiah J NDE 7297","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jeremiah J NDE 7297  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jeremiah J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3713 Jeremiah J NDE 7297  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					The following is what I wrote down in the week following the experience:

In April of 2014, I went in for surgery to remove my gallbladder.  It had failed over time and was no longer working, giving me a lot of problems.  A couple of years prior, I had an inguinal hernia repair with the same surgeon and drug doc, without issue. The type of surgery was laparoscopic, which was a new type of procedure for me as prior surgery had been open.

I was brought into the operating room and got onto the table.  I talked with the nurses and then I was put under.  It was basically about the same as my last surgery.

Unknown time passed, and I came to in an instant with a rapid motion.  It felt like I went adjacent to where I had been.  Almost like a hole was torn in existence and I shot through it.  There was complete blackness behind, below and to the left and right of me.  

Directly in front of me, about 12 feet or so, was a very brightly lit 'being' standing in some sort of vague entry way.  I could see a bright light blue sky like area above and in the distance behind the being.  In my estimation, the being was approximately 8 to 9 feet in height and approximately 6 feet in width.  It consisted of a very bright white light outward from a cigar-shaped center, with the edges of it fading to a bright cobalt blue.  No matter what angle I viewed the being, I could not make out a face or many features of it.  The light was extremely bright and fluid in nature.  The being did have a definite substantial mass.

The connection I had to the being was extreme.  It knew me to my core and had known me forever.  The being felt like my brother and best friend wrapped into one, times 10,000.  The being was extremely humble and loving.  Although the loving feeling was different from anything I have experienced in earthly life, it's the best word I can come up with to describe it.

The best way to describe the speed at which information flowed that I can come up with is at the speed of thought, yet my speed of thought and cognitive abilities became extreme, and nothing like on earth.  Maybe it was tenfold in capabilities.  I immediately 'knew' a whole lot of information.  For every thought, the answer was immediate.  I could feel a connection to what felt like billions of individual entities, however, they were on the other side of the being.

I knew I was dead.  Human emotions did not exist.  There was no fear or ego or desire, there is only the 'love' type feeling, good will and humor.

I communicated with the being in what can best be described as telepathy, but with greater speed.  The being identified himself as The Archangel Mich'l and he was seriously awesome!  He is not at all human, being a completely different being than us or anything on Earth.  My limited human vocabulary cannot adequately describe him.  Mich'l told me 'I can use you, you can work with me.'  I did not really understand this.  Mich'l said he is a servant of god and has a number of duties.  There is zero ego to Mich'l and his caring is deep.  Apparently, I could help him with one or more of his duties.  I wondered about God and he told me that God is all around us, in us, and everything.  God Is.  This communication is all telepathic at this point but his use of 'God Is' was clearly demonstrative in nature.  He will take me to be presented to him.

Quick aside here, this really confused me when I later returned.  How could God be everywhere and yet I be 'presented to him'?  This took some working out for me even though the answer was clear when I was there.  Despite being raised Catholic, I am not a very good one.  The best way I can describe it is that God consists of three parts yet one part.  Confusing, I know.  What I felt of God all around me, and the connection to Mich'l, is what would be termed in a number of religions as the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is God, it is that 'love' feeling I was referring to, a powerful energy and connective force.  I would be presented to the Father.  The father is distinct from the spirit, but also God.  There is the son, who is not the father or the spirit, but is also God.  God is literally three parts, yet one and everywhere.  Confusing, yes, but it made complete sense where I was at.

Back to Mich'l.  I felt extremely humbled and unworthy to be in his presence or where I was at.  I asked why I was here.  Mich'l told me I was there because I was a 'Righteous Man.'  This term seemed to denote a category, or at least that was my impression, more than he was specifically describing me a certain way.  This term has confused me since my return because it can be taken a couple of different ways on earth.  I have been studying it the past couple of weeks.  I am not complete in my study, but did find that the term together is actually in the bible verbatim, which I admit I have never read and am woefully ignorant of.  That is changing as I have found some explanations in there for what I experienced.

The other big thing I got from the non-verbal exchange with Mich'l is that conducting oneself in an 'ethical' and 'honorable' manner is extremely important to God.  Extremely.  I cannot stress this enough.  There are many things we may consider sin here that are of less importance there.  There are things such as these and passing judgment towards others that are a much bigger deal than at least I had come to think before this experience.  Those are two words though he specifically clarified.  These are things I had done well and were examples of the reason I was there.  I attach no ego to this; only pass it on for those who may have interest.  There is no ego in heaven; it does not exist.  Take of this what you will.  In terms of the varied emotions on Earth, they are not present in that place.  There was no sorrow, no anger, no regret, no greed, no anxiety, etc.  I don't mean that I didn't experience them there; I mean that they literally do not exist and experiencing them was not possible.

I have clarified the non-verbal communication because it is identical to verbal communication in the sense that there is no confusion over what is said, but also because I had a verbal discourse with Mich'l.

Mich'l verbally asked me a question.  He had a male, very clear voice and spoke in my native tongue, American English.  I feel this was for my benefit only, as in, he could communicate in any language in existence.  His voice came from the central cigar shaped area of his being of light, about 6 feet off from the ground.  Mich'l said to me, 'You may come with me now if you like?'  I took this as a question with an optional response.  

I immediately, and extremely strongly, had the sensation and could see two balls of light near my left breast, or at least where it would be if I could see it, of the souls of my wife and infant daughter.  I felt an overwhelming feeling of absolute responsibility for their protection.  It was resoundingly powerful.  I'm not sure if this will be edited out, but I believe in telling this as accurately as possible.  I said to Mich'l, not in anger (doesn't exist there) but with extreme passion, 'There's no fu#$ing way.'  Mich'l laughed at my response.  It was a loving laugh with a feeling of appreciation and complete understanding.  I felt, (never could see details of a face) that he had completely expected a response along those lines, and liked me even more for it, if that was possible.  He replied to me, still laughing, 'Ok.'

The next instant, I awoke with a nurse in front of me.  I asked her what went wrong.  She appeared surprised by my question and told me that my heart had stopped.  They believe I had a rare response to the CO2 that is pumped into the body cavity to give the surgeon room to work.  I asked if they got it started again with shock or drugs.  She responded 'drugs.'

There are a couple of things to round out the experience.  I am still digesting a lot of it.  The entire time I was there felt like approximately 30-45 seconds in earth time.  The information flow is so extreme that I am going to need some time to work through it all.  From estimates in my medical records, I was only down for a very short time, less than a minute.  I did not experience rising out of my body, I went immediately to the entrance and Mich'l.  There was no tunnel or light, yet when I was there; it is possible there was a tunnel behind me.  It was just so black; I could not discern anything behind me.  I did not experience any type of life review.  For me it seemed like a review was complete and is always ongoing.  

I also was not met by any dead relatives, although I did feel them in a general sense beyond Mich'l.  All those thoughts were pre-conceived notions I had prior to this experience.  I only add this because it still seems strange to me how different it was compared to what I had expected from church and whatnot.  Up until this experience, I had an 'I have no clue what happens when you die, maybe nothing' kind of thought process.  It was essentially an open question for me.  I believed in god, because the existence of god was logical to me.  I just didn't think anyone or any religion had a clue what happens.  For obvious reasons I am forever changed.

One final thing, I wanted to discuss my thought process immediately after the experience.  Initially, even though I knew otherwise, I looked for any scientific reason for the experience to the point of asking my surgeon for advice.  He didn't have any, and I am unable to come up with an adequate scientific explanation.  Next, I thought of a dream, but it was much clearer.  I was literally awake.  I then went over hallucination.  I have never had one, so it seemed perhaps viable.  The biggest problem here is that the experience went way outside of any pre-conceived notion I have ever had, and again, it was just too clear.  I was clinically dead, which also makes this one a stretch.  Probably the most interesting aspect of the experience is how clear it was.  My memory of it is as clear as any waking memory I have of my life here on earth.  I have zero explanation for that other than to say, it simply happened exactly as I remember it.

I provide this narrative of my experience with the hope that if may help people who read it and the hope that it may be useful to future research into this area.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  April 3, 2014

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Surgery-related. While under general anesthesia.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I was clinically dead.  No heartbeat and cessation of breathing due to surgical complications.  It is believed that I had a very rare, but known, reaction to the gas, CO2, which is used to inflate the body cavity to perform lap surgery.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  I literally was blacked out by anesthesia, came to full consciousness elsewhere, and immediately returned to my body while maintaining continued consciousness.  My consciousness was clearly separate of my human body, and I also think there may be a way to actually measure it scientifically.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The entire experience was no different than normal awakened consciousness and alertness in everyday life.  My intellectual capacity was extreme, much greater than on Earth, but awareness was the same.  It wasn't heightened in and of itself.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No   In the sense of time, there seemed to be no difference, however, time seems of little importance there.  I seemed to be able to take in much more cognitively than normal in the time frame.  Overall, I felt like 30-45 seconds took place in earth time, even though I was able to absorb weeks' worth of information.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Vision seemed to be about the same.  What I was seeing was much different.  I could not actual see any type of body I was in.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No different than it is right this instant or at any other time.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Very bright light.  White and a cobalt-like blue were the two colors I could discern.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was very obviously not earthly.  The place had little to no similarities to earth, at least from the view I was exposed to.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Not many.  Most human emotions did not exist for me there.  I felt the strong energy that seemed to permeate everything that I would equate to 'love,' but I only make that equation because it is the closest thing I can describe in human experience.  It is, still, unique from the human emotion of love.  The other emotion I felt would be better described as passion for my family and a strong feeling of responsibility.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     This isn't exactly accurate.  I did not understand 'everything' about the universe, other than the understanding that the universe in its entirety is God and all connected.  There is a connection and harmony with existence, however there is not absolute knowledge.  It is far too complicated even for what seemed to me to be my highly enhanced capability mind.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Uncertain     I could not see a physical structure, but I had the sensation of an entrance or pass through the being was at.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   There was a very clear asking of me regarding what I wanted to do by the being.  He asked me in verbal form.  I answered in verbal form.  It was a choice that clearly was mine alone to make.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   Raised Roman Catholic, go on Easter and Christmas, not overly knowledgeable about the bible however I also have a deep personal belief system.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   I feel more connected at church, however, I don't go very often. I have a much greater understanding of Jesus and the bible than prior to this experience. What is and is not important.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     The experience itself was inconsistent with anything I had learned prior to it happening and how I would have expected such a thing to go. On the other side of that, some of the things I learned there were consistent with what I would have expected, as in living ethically. This is difficult again to put into understandable words.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     The experience resulted in a realignment of what is important in conducting life.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   The being was very tall and large in proportion.  Clearly not human in any way shape or form, but extremely connected to me.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   I am uncertain on this, in retrospect, I almost feel that Mich'l and Jesus may be one in the same. I have nothing to base this on other than "feeling" once returned.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     The oneness is God, it is all one in the same. God is all around us and in us on this Earthly plane as well.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     God does exist. I was personally in his/its presence while fully conscious. God Is. It is of no consequence if one believes or not. God simply Is.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain     I am uncertain on this question. I was not given specific information to answer this question, however, answers were available. It is too difficult, at least I am incapable at this time of answering this question in a manner understandable to anyone who h

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Yes, there is clear "life" after human earthly death. I experienced it first hand while fully conscious. As to the full parameters of what that existence is like, I cannot say.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     I did not see what is commonly referred to as hell but learned while there such a place does in fact exist and is of an un-comprehensible negative nature. You will in fact go there if you do not live your life within acceptable guidelines. Claiming repentance and being repentant are two different things. You cannot hide anything from God. There is no escape from transgressions. There is no going to confession and all is ok. Only God judges so I have not idea exactly how it works, only that a person should want to be with God, not against.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     God does not impact your life like you are a pawn or take direct control over existence here. It does not work that way. We are imperfect beings learning. Again, this gets difficult to describe in human language. The choices you make here are of importanc

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life     Slight changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Yes and no.  It is easy to talk about and discuss, however, my capacity to describe some parts is lacking as I have no Earthly comparisons to make them discernible to an audience.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   It is consistent with my normal memory of big events in my life.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I put 'Uncertain' because I would not consider it 'special' so much as I consider it a consequence of the experience.  I am now able to recognize a pattern in existence as well as a structure that was not clear prior to the experience.  In essence, it opened my eyes to the true reality of existence.  Again, it is difficult to put into words.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The knowledge of continued existence is of profound significance to me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told the nurse standing in front of me when I returned to my body what happened.  So, immediately would best describe the time it took.  I do not know if I have had an influence on anyone.  All I can do is share what happened, it is up to them to use the information as they so choose.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had heard the very basic construct of floating over your body, tunnel, seeing light, seeing dead relatives, etc.  My experience did not follow that at all.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     If the experience was not definitely real, then I would have to question all existence as I know it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Again, it was no different than being conscious at any other time in my existence.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jeremiah_j_nde.html