{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jerald_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Jerald H NDE 3219","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jerald H NDE 3219  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jerald H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1193  Jerald H NDE  3219  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was homeless, living in a small country church parking lot in my twenty-seven foot travel trailer with my wife, teen-age daughter and twelve year old son while I was trying to secure employment to get us a home. On Easter Sunday, I experienced some discomfort in my chest while climbing into bed. After I let my wife know that the pain was radiating down my arm, I decided we needed to get to the hospital. I dressed and walked to the parking lot where my 1976 Chevy Pickup was parked, thinking that I could drive myself. When I reached the truck, I doubled over in pain.  I realized that I needed an ambulance. I reached for my cell phone and called 911 to dispatch the ambulance.

Upon arrival to the emergency room, I was rushed into the cardiac treatment unit and placed on monitors. I began to feel really odd and realized then that I was in definite peril. Up until this moment, I was floating down the big river in Egypt in my mind, 'De Nile.' As a religious person, I always wondered what would be on my lips at the moment I would die. I could not think of a prayer. I remember a week earlier I was in a Bible study and the pastor was talking about the disciples in the boat on the sea of Galilee with Jesus asleep on the bow, when suddenly a storm came and tossed the little vessel around. Now, these particular disciples were experienced fishermen and knew this sea, and what it was capable of doing. They, putting their faith in the Son of God who was asleep in the ship with them, woke him and putting their faith and trust in him to save them from this certain peril, he stood and took command over that storm and instantly the sea was calm.

I remembered thinking that this event unfolding in my life right at this moment in the emergency room was a storm, and thinking about that story, I placed my faith and trust in God, through his Son Jesus Christ to rise and take command of this storm that is prevailing in my life.

Then the odd feeling came and I realized I may be dying. The only thing I could think of was to Praise God and Glorify his Son Jesus of Nazareth. Then the lights went out.

It was an incredible calm and peace that I found myself in suddenly. I was awash in a light and feeling the presence of this being. The feeling of love, as if I was but a cup, and an ocean of love was pouring into my soul that I could not contain, yet desiring more.

I remember being aware of my being in this place and a sense of expectation, waiting for the next step to take that journey. I was all consumed with the knowledge of this presence and the experience of it. Then the lights and sound came. The loud painful sound, the light that hurt my head, this feeling of nausea, discomfort, a headache, sweat pouring off my forehead along with the confusion, where am I, what is this place, the pain of an electrical pulse going into my chest wall. Then I vomited all over the floor releasing the contents of my stomach from that evening's dinner. The faint voice getting louder as I was coming back, 'Mister Hanson! Are you with us?' The confusion, not knowing what was said, or what was required to respond let alone, where was I.

Sometime later I realized the pain of the sound of like a waterfall in my ears was the blood rushing back into my ears, the blood, the life giving blood, filling every capillary in my body, adding life back into my organs, my brain, my eyes and ears.

Sometime later, I occasioned a visit back to the emergency room and with the same doctor in attendance, I asked if I died, or did I just pass out. She said, 'You were dead, clinically dead, dead, dead. The monitors showed you were flat line, dead.'

The journey to the other realm was quite the un-event if you will. It was the journey back that was traumatic. I was 'pissed off' when they brought me back. I also realized that while I was there, I had no thought of anyone or anything here in this realm. Now I understand that scripture in the Bible where it says that the dead know nothing. We who are dead know nothing of this realm. But we are completely aware of our being in the other realm. And I also understand how it is that God is able to wipe away our tears and sorrows. He mercifully blocks that knowledge of our loved ones we leave behind so we don't grieve over our separation from them, but we are engaged in our relationships there on the other realm.

Six months later, I had complications with my heart and went into cardiac arrest three times successively that day, luckily, in the emergency room. It was then that they decided I needed a pacemaker.

Since my Trauma of cardiac arrest, I, for some unexplained reason am able to articulate better, understand better, ace tests that I would never have been able to comprehend previously. I have achieved far more in the past five years after my Death Experience that all in my entire life. I received my Bachelors in Counseling, and Doctorates in Divinity. I have my master in Chaplaincy, and became a chaplain with the United States Air Force, Civil Air Patrol reserves and will be promoted to the rank of Major in December. I wrote eight books; published four so far, ran for a political office as a county commissioner, and work in the evenings as a Certified Nurse's aid in the Cardiac unit. I have been conducting my own research here unofficially in the field of death and dying and have found a remarkable similarity with my experience, and yet some who have hellish experiences. I heard an interview by a cardiologist who researched this field of study and stated that 0.3% of patients who have cardiac arrest, mysteriously recover smarter. I think I am among that 0.3%. Weird.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    'Easter Sunday April 15th, 2001'

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Heart attack    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) .  Though I never technically had a 'heart attack', my heart stopped while I was hooked up to monitors in the emergency room at the hospital, due to a blockage in the LAD artery of the heart requiring resuscitation and emergent CABG surgery as well as a pacemaker implant.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Since I had no comprehension of TIME, to me it was within a matter of moments. The doctor stated that I was flat line for approximately eight minutes.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   This space was clearly a definitive space not here in this dimension, but still within reach to transition back to this realm.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    This is hard to explain, While I was in this state, the only thing I was seeing was the presence of this light.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Again, hard to define the description, there was no audible sounds at this level, or where I was, it was all the feeling in my being, my heart, my soul.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   A light so that it did not hurt, or burn like the sun, or a light bulb, calming, yet joyful, and loving.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     A place that was a spot or space awaiting for the next event.  I could only assume that I was waiting to journey from that point to another.  That was my feeling, or sensation.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Joy, abundant joy, love, unquenchable love, peace, a deep serene peace, comfort, warmth, floating.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I now understand with clarity that which is going to befall mankind in the future. I cannot say when this event begins, but I can say that it is going to happen. Calamity, but not all will perish. Man will prevail for a time, them who choose, and them who reject will live side by side for a time of peace after the great turmoil. One more Pope, then no more. Another temple sits next to the Dome of the Rock, and then peace comes for a time, then great catastrophe. A great invasion from the sky, then peace.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   'I am an Independent, Full Gospel Christian, formerly a pastor of a church.'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes     Bolder to proclaim the gospel of the Kingdom of Heaven as our Lord Jesus Christ of Nazareth did during his ministry while he was here on earth. Understanding the Bible and which Bible is more accurate. Discerning the difference between counterfeit bibles which are doctrinally as corrupt as the church is ('Corrections, Corruptions and Counterfeits' by Dr. J.A. Hanson) as I detail in my books. My relationships with those who are seeking after the truth of a relationship with the Lord are stronger.

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist   'I don't ascribe to any established denominational constrictions, nor do I hold to any church doctrines.  I believe ONLY in the doctrines of the Bible (KJV)'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Bolder to proclaim the gospel of the Kingdom of Heaven as our Lord Jesus Christ of Nazareth did during his ministry while he was here on earth. Understanding the Bible and which Bible is more accurate. Discerning the difference between counterfeit bibles which are doctrinally as corrupt as the church is ('Corrections, Corruptions and Counterfeits' by Dr. J.A. Hanson) as I detail in my books. My relationships with those who are seeking after the truth of a relationship with the Lord are stronger.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   My understanding of Science, health, religion, all were clearer. Other things as I explore them are seeming to be more clearly understood and thought through in a logical order of understanding and comprehension. I realize now just how much that man is missing, and how wrong the church is being by departing from the true nature of God. LOVE. Peace, Patience, accountability, and respect for others.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  I choose my battles more carefully, I am closer to my family and friends, and have more friends. I am more tolerant of others, especially those who do not share the path I CHOOSE for myself. I am bolder and more outspoken and not afraid.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   The ability to define the pleasure and love felt from the presents of the LORD.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     The gift of knowledge, and the ability to learn and understand with clarity.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Just simply being in the presence of my Lord and not being in Hell was testimony enough to tell me that I was on the right path that I personally chose for myself.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    It was not understood until a year or two down the road. Hindsight is always 20/20. It had not occurred to me until after I received my Doctorates that I got a clue of my new found ability. But the understanding with clarity came within days. Some rejected me, especially those from the church. It hurt. They can be so blind by THEIR faith sometimes. Time is the cure for all truth to be established, and soon, what I have written and stated will show forth to be fact.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    Yes   I would prefer to call it a Death Experience, as those who have a near death experience didn't actually make it into the full blown realm of the dead as my research has shown. There are two categories: those who thought they died, but simply passed out for some reason or another, and those who actually had stopped living. So an NDE would more appropriately be defined under the category of those who passed out and had a dream or experience in a dream state, then the category of DE, for those whose hearts had actually stopped. My knowledge of DE was from watching TV shows and reading articles and accounts of those who came back for their DE to tell about it.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     I wasn't one hundred percent positive, since I have had an encounter while alive.  I was in the presence of my Lord when I was Baptized by the Holy Spirit and visited by Jesus Christ in my younger naive Christian years.  Until the doctor clarified that I was dead, then I could not have reasoned it otherwise to be anything else but the real thing.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     I still remember with clarity the full experience to this day.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I will abide here and do the work I am called to do until I am called home to be with my Lord. I used to fear death; I no longer have that fear. I am able to minister to those patients of mine who are facing death with fear, eliminating that fear through my testimony, and leading them through the prayer of faith. We have nothing to lose if we pray the prayer of faith, but we have everything to gain.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      I am always interested in the fact about Death Experiences. I have been dead, and fear death no more. This research confirms much of what I have researched these past six years myself on the subject.

Thank you for your contributions to this subject.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jerald_h_nde.html