{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jenny_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Jenny S NDE 5449","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jenny S NDE 5449  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jenny S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3348 Jenny S NDE 5449  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was sitting in the bathtub with my friend, it was raining outside. We felt as if our feet were falling asleep and a second later, there was a tingling over our entire bodies. I saw how my friend managed to get himself out of the bathtub and then I lost my breath. I went underwater and my lungs filled with water and for a short time, it was painful.  But suddenly I saw myself from above laying underwater with my mouth and eyes wide open and thought, 'what a horrible sight!' 

The next thing I remember is that I was COMPLETE, I was at a place that was/is very familiar to me (The woods where I went walking my dog) But I understood!! What I didn't see with my eyes was becoming suddenly aware that I was no longer in this world; the water was such a beautiful blue, a swan was swimming there which seemed to be glowing from the inside out, it was radiant. Everything radiated an indescribable light and I was part of that light, everything was part of that light. It was a feeling of rest, love and serenity I had never experienced in my life - the feeling of fulfillment, of being complete, without pain, without a body. When I realized I was without a body it felt as if a block of granite had been lifted from me. I could comprehend my pure self. I was just a dot but just as lively and at the same time as softly radiant as everything around me. 

The grass was greener than green and smelled mildly wet but inviting. The trees and their leaves shimmered and the sound of the wind was as music. I saw the park bench and was immediately drawn to it; there was someone there. At first I saw only his/her light as I joined in the 'information room' (It seemed to be coming out of him, he KNEW what I wanted to know) I saw that it was the father of my son; it seemed as if we had never been apart. We were happy to see each other again but not ecstatically although not sad either. It was as if we saw each other again after he had gone shopping.  The feeling of all the answers to my questions coming from him also seemed to be coming from a surrounding and present Power. I don't want to use a name like God or Allah because I felt a Universal love, an endless love which is present in each of us, the knowledge of everything. I was so happy there and didn't want to leave, but my ex-friend told me suddenly that I had to go back. I knew why and yet I didn't want to return. But before I could resist what HAD to happen, I was drawn away and it became ice cold and dark as soot around and in me. I was back in my body and became hysterical; I kept asking the rescue team WHY they had brought me back! When I told them I had watched how they had re-animated me and pointed to the rescuer who did it and to the one who did the heart message, I got the blunt answer that they would be injecting me with a strong tranquilizer if I didn't shut up!? This is the first time in eight years that I have dared to share this.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  2005

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Other elektrocutatie.   My lungs were filled with water and 240 volts went through my body.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Same as No. 4 above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The moment I got all the answers to my questions; I didn't have to ask, I was in the 'Information pool' also when I was able to comprehend the landscape in detail.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Everything went very fast but at the same time it was very peaceful.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything had brighter color which seemed radiant, everything was radiant. I could observe everything at once, above, below, left and right without distortion.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The babbling of the water in the brook where the swan was swimming, the sound of the wind through the leaves and waving the grass was as music, everything was in harmony.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     It all happened so fast; it went dark for a little while but I couldn't make out a tunnel, it happened too quickly.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     He was sitting on a park bench and I recognized him as the father of my son. He seemed to readily possess all information and was willing to share it with me and I understood.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I was one with the light, I saw it and it observed me as I observed the light in me; the light was Love and familiarity.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     ik was in het bos waar ik mijn hond steeds liet dollen maar het was niet hetzelfde bos het leek er sterk op maar het was niet in deze dimensie heel de ervaring was niet in deze dimensie

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, happiness, peace and especially, serenity.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I knew four years prior to the event that I would have a daughter! Not till I was pregnant and the doctor said it would be a girl did my friend believe me.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     When he said that I must return and it became clear that I had received the necessary information and wasn't allowed more questions and was not allowed to stay. It was almost as if I had run out of time and HAD to leave, otherwise I would not be able to fulfill my tasks.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   wist het niet zo goed

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I no longer believe in the god with the long white beard and sandals. I believe in a Universal Love, which is so great that it is impossible for a person to express in one word.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   geen geloof wat op deze wereld word vertegenwordigd

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I no longer believe in the god with the long white beard and sandals. I believe in a Universal Love, which is so great that it is impossible for a person to express in one word.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I got to see the face of a baby, a girl and I knew that this would be my child. Four years later this did indeed happen. I also saw that my future would be very hard and I was warned about the dangers that would be coming.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes My friend is sometimes afraid of my intuition but is more open to the theme.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I have very strong intuition and feel irritability coming on in the form of a mild panic attack and image storm. I predicted the death of my friend's grandmother.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Everything was special, each detail.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Only with my friend and my doctor. They both called me crazy.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had read a few books on this topic but didn't know how much faith I should put in it. I doubted how much truth there was to it.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Experience was definitely real because everything fell into place; no more questions and the whole experience was as real as this reality/dimension. I was given predictions some of which later happened and others, which have yet to happen but I KNOW they will.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     This was because of the prediction of the not yet conceived child, my child.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   3 suicide attempts only because I wanted to go back, but the last time it was not so nice. I was told rather firmly to go back and these two words were said very clearly: NOT YET! I knew that it was because of my responsibilities to my daughter.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am glad meanwhile to be in this world but yearn for that rest. But I KNOW that I will only be allowed there after I have completed my tasks and have learned more; there is still a lot of work in store for me here. It was the nicest accident I ever had; I was AWAKE for a little space in time.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jenny_s_nde.html