{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jenny_e_nde.html","mytitle":"Jenny E NDE 21798","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jenny E NDE 21798            	        Jennifer NDE 55  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Jenny E NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1610 Jenny E NDE 21798  					  				  			  			     			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					While in the throes of a bad car accident, my deceased grandfather (that I was extremely close to) came to me.  At the time, I was twenty-two years old and working in New York. I was just about to rent my first apartment away from my family.  As the impact was happening, all of the events surrounding my life at the time went through my head (mainly the rental of a new apartment). My beloved grandfather came to me with his arms and took me out of the wreckage.  I had no seat belt on and at the time, many of my friends who had seen the car thought that I had died in the wreckage (It was that bad!). I survived by the grace of my grandfather and I'll never forget it.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  4/191/1985

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was in a very bad car accident.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was looking down upon the wreckage.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Very alert.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was a time delay.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Just feeling that my grandfather was helping me.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Newly deceased grandfather.

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     My intuitive or unconscious senses were more prominent.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace and knowing that my grandfather was there to help me. He was a very intuitive person.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Grandfather who had died. He was in a different place.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Yes, I was viewing the accident that I was in from above.

The experience included:       Vision of the future  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I was more open to the universe.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   To certain people, but not for me.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I was worried about getting the apartment, but I knew that I would after the experience.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        No negatives. The positive was connecting with my grandfather.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The reactions have been mixed.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   Though other experiences have occurred.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jenny_e_nde.html