{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jenny_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Jenny A NDE 22409","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jenny A NDE 22409  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jenny A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2546 Jenny A NDE 22409  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					After I died, I remember being pulled upwards towards the ceiling. Then suddenly the ceiling became a white mass, which swirled into a blue tunnel. My spirit body (?) or soul was lifted up into the light.

As I was floating in the tunnel, I could see a bright white light at the end of that tunnel. However, when I was about halfway there, I felt this feeling as if a higher power was forcing me back down and urging me to go back to my body. Honestly, I was upset.  I didn't want to go back. I wanted to go into the light, because there was so much peace, and a soothing, calm feeling. So I was trying to force myself back into the light, but, once again, I felt a presence urging me back down the tunnel to my body. I awoke, back in my body, with doctors and nurses all around me.  

After the event, I wasn't the same. It made me feel like I was meant to do something important. But I also felt as if God didn't want me because when I wanted to go with him into the light to where I presumed Heaven was, he refused to let me go with him. Since my experience, I have become somewhat psychic. I see and hear spirits and feel negative energy. I also see auras and non-human entities. It's completely changed my life.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  June, 13, 2010

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Diagnosed with Mitral valve prolapse (MVP) at 20, During the event I experienced arrhythmia then cardiac arrest.  Clinical death Diagnosed with Mitral valve prolapse (MVP) at 20,  During the event I experienced arrhythmia then cardiac arrest.  Diagnosed with Mitral valve prolapse (MVP) at age twenty.  During the event, I experienced arrhythmia, then cardiac arrest. Doctors said I was dead for four minutes.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I saw my soul when I was floating in the tunnel. My arms were spread out on either side of me, and I could see my hands. They looked like they were glowing white and translucent, almost like I was wearing cheese cloth.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Like being at one hundred and seventy five percent. I was at a higher state of alertness.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard the doctors and nurses, but besides that, nothing else.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I believe I was greeted by a presence, perhaps God or an Angel? It wasn't a physical person, but I had a feeling that some being was greeting me. It did not feel human.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I was in a bright blue tunnel of light. At the end of the tunnel there was an even whiter, though softer, white light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     My eyes saw things differently.  It was like a mirror-world to ours, except everything was lighter and brighter.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happiness, Joy, Love. Afterwards, I felt disappointment that I hadn't gone into the light. I also felt a little angry about that.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     The presence was forcing me back to my physical body because, it was making it clear, I had a purpose to fulfill.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     Halfway up the tunnel, the presence intervened and prevented me from going further.  I felt it was a warning that if I went further, I couldn't go back.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   The presence made the decision on their own. I wanted to stay, and the presence knew it, but wouldn't let me stay, no matter how badly I wanted to. I felt upset with the presence for making me go back.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   roman catholic

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Personal spiritual awareness, I believe in God, Jesus, Angels, Elemental spirits (Nature spirits).  I also believe the devil exists. and other negative spirits

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Everything about the experience seemed one hundred percent real.  It's difficult to describe because it's beyond my thinking capacity.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Before the experience, I had seen a spirit or two, but since the event, I can now see them all the time. I see auras, spirits, non-human entities, and experience out of body experiences often, along with lucid dreaming.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Best part was feeling the presence. And knowing there is something more to life, and realizing I am supposed to do something honorable.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They didn't believe me. Not my family and not the medical professionals who treated me. I didn't share it with anyone else.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jenny_a_nde.html