{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jennifer_w_ndes.html","mytitle":"Jennifer W NDEs 4462","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jennifer W NDEs 4462  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jennifer W NDEs  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2238 Jennifer W NDEs 4462  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was three years old. I was sitting in the back seat of my dad's car and he was driving down the road. I was just sitting there, minding my own business when these hands pulled my soul out of my body. I was high in the sky and Jesus was there next to me. Suddenly I heard this very deep, pulsating vibration, it was spooky, but somehow I sensed that God was somewhere out there. I told Jesus I didn't want to stay and talk, I needed to find the source of the vibration. Jesus wouldn't let me go and explore. Instead, He was telling me things. He said that the next several years of my life would be horrible. He was preparing me for what was coming up. He gave me advice. I don't remember anything He said, except pretty much that life would be Hell.

My parents belonged to a cult and were also Mormon. I was tortured and abused beyond belief, and developed seizures. I was sitting in church with my mom, grandma and sisters and my eldest sister began kicking me. I felt intense anger and then had a seizure. My body flopped around on the chair and fell to the floor. My grandma and mother were embarrassed, thinking I was acting up. Suddenly, I found myself in a dark place and two beings of very white light, one male; one female came and held me in their arms. It was the first time in my life I had ever experienced love. They held me for a very long time. They told me that God is love, something I had no knowledge of. I feel like they were my true parents, my spiritual parents. I was so confused, what is this love, who is this God you are talking about. I didn't want to come back, they told me I had too. This experience was so special to me; it helped me throughout my life.

My uncle was a sadist and tortured me, many times to the point of death. Once, the fear and pain were so intense and I went into the most beautiful realm of shapes and colors. It was unbelievable. I know that when children are being tortured, God is there with them. He takes their souls out of their bodies and takes them into the most beautiful realms anyone could imagine. God does not abandon abused and murdered children. He gives them more love than anyone would ever believe. The child only is allowed to feel a little bit of terror and then God embraces them and takes them to absolute beauty. Children are God's masterpiece. I think He loves them the most.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  '1965, 1966, 1967'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Other 'seizure, don't know if it was life threatening'  I developed seizures in my childhood due to intense and horrifying abuse.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       These experiences were kind of confusing. I think that the longer I was away from my body, the more understanding I received.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     When my uncle was torturing me, the colors and intense beauty were beyond comprehension; it was as if I were inside the Creative Mind of God.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There is a vibration that resonates in the universe, I think it is God.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The two beings were bright white lights.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     God is creative.  Where He took me was beyond comprehension, beauty.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       When Jesus talked to me, I didn't seem to feel any emotion. When the two beings of light held me, I felt love beyond belief. When my uncle tortured me and I was with God, I felt EUPHORIA.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     How much I want love, need love.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I was told about how hard things were going to be, but I wasn't given details. I was told how to deal with it. Don't remember what I was supposed to do. Am in so much pain that I'm thinking I may not have listened to Jesus well enough, should have listened!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Mormon

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Studied a lot of metaphysics, religion, and philosophy. Think a good song or piece of music leads me to God. Children amuse me and delight me. I like children and teenagers.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Studied a lot of metaphysics, religion, and philosophy. Think a good song or piece of music leads me to God. Children amuse me and delight me. I like children and teenagers.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   This world can be so hard, I mean hard, that to be told that God is love and to feel it, seems like a huge paradox.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Lately I feel disconnected from people. I am in a state of shock about all the abuse. Feel like walking away from the world and saying, CRAP. People treat each other like crap. Do lots of spiritual praying for children of this planet. Also, I pray for countries like Africa. I am kind of an outcast. Belief that God is love is my strength.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The absolute love given to me.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I could feel other people's feelings. It hurt. It was too scary, so I shut down my emotions. If I had had one loving emotionally healthy person in my childhood, I would probably have been able to help people with specific emotions that created pain in them. Emotional healing is the hardest thing for humans to experience. I believe that healing emotions brings us closer to God. Most religions don't even address deep pain, emotional wounds, and how to process them. I think religion needs to do this, without labeling a person a weirdo for having emotionally painful stuff. I think people use religion as a Band-Aid for pain. I want the pain removed, I don't want Band-Aids.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The most meaningful was the two beings of light holding me and giving me love. That created this lifelong pursuit to learn about love.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it during the past couple of years. No one thinks it's a big deal.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I began to believe that God is love, even though I never saw any in the people who raised me. I began to believe that God was not punishing, but then the abuse got so bad that I began to believe in punishment, and that God would punish me, just like the others were.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     On an emotional and psychological level, my life was hell. These experiences help give me hope that what I struggle with isn't in vain.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jennifer_w_ndes.html