{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jennifer_v_nde.html","mytitle":"Jennifer V NDE 3318","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jennifer V NDE 3318  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jennifer V NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1153  Jennifer V NDE  3318  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I felt that I had returned HOME! And I thought; thank God, I am back! I knew I was right, I just knew I was from heaven!

I was then communicating with the most beautiful spiritual being, and I felt that I was in the presence of the Spirit. It only allowed me to see it from the right hand side, and from over my right shoulder. I believe it to be the spirit of Christ that I met, and who talked with me. It was too perfect to be any other.

He then said to me, 'I am Sorry, but you must return.' I was immediately angered by this and I was not willing to agree. I said; NO, you do not understand how much pain is down there, and how hard it is to live there. No way am I going back there, never, no way! The warmth of the light is the best feeling ever, that any child or adult could ever experience.

No drug or fix on this earth, such as extreme activities or anything else that you can imagine, will ever feel that good. When you feel it around you, it is perfect. This is what I was experiencing. I was also able to fly, and I flew up into the heavens. I do not remember just how I knew, but I just knew that this was me. I could still see and think that this is ME!

Yet I was shown my body below, in the plane in which I knew there is a line between here and there. I could see my limp and lifeless body thrown over the driver of the car. I was asked how about now, do you see now that you must go back. And I said; No, you know I am not happy down there, and you know this is my prayer, my one dream answered. I have been begging to come back here (home) ever since I left to go down there. I can't stand it, and I am not going back. Then the voice says to me, 'Jennifer, you must go back and help.' And I said no! Then the voice said that his nose is cut off his face, you will need to go back and help him. He is bleeding to death. I said, 'No, let somebody else do it. He will be fine without my help; I do not want to go back down there.'

Then the voice said, 'I will tell you what to do. You take off his shirt after you pick up his nose up off the floor board of the car, it will be next to your feet. Place his nose on his face and press it down to stop the bleeding. It's just blood, so do not be afraid, I am with you as always.' I knew I was never alone, from as far back as a child, I could remember.

So then the voice said, 'Jennifer you will begin to walk him up the right side of the road and a car will come, tell the man to take you to the nearest hospital. Keeping the man calm, go to the ECM hospital where you were born, you know the way, and everything will be all right. You must do this. Do you understand?'

I said; No, I will not go back down there, no, no, no! Then the voice says, 'You must think about your mother, think what your death would do to her Jennifer.' No, I said. I don't care, I know you love her and she will be fine. There is no way I am going back. Then I said; Oh darn, okay, I will reluctantly agree. But damn it, it's so unfair, but you know me I will go for you. If you really must send me back, I will go for you. Yes, okay, I will do what you have instructed me to do, because I love you. And I will be with you again someday, however I won't forget this. Swoosh, I am back into my body!

I raise myself up and look around, seeing how perfect my body still was. I checked myself out and said; Okay I like it, nothing damaged here, now on with my work. Oh yeah, I remember what you last said before I was sucked back into my body. You said I had to come back because I still had work to do down here, I am not finished yet. Okay, now where is this poor guy's nose. Oh yeah, first I've got to get him out of that shirt, and it's okay my friend I am going to lift and carry you up this road. I needed your shirt to hold to your face, no do not panic, I know what I am doing trust me. I have you, and everything is under control. Trust me, I know God and Jesus. And we have got you a ride, he is pulling up now, just remain still and calm, while I get this poor man who looks afraid, to take us to ECM Hospital.

We are only ten minutes away I promise you everything will be okay. I said to the man giving us a ride, look mister please, just keep your eyes on the road, at least until we all get to the hospital. And he said; lady, he, he, he's bleeding, and he is dying in my car. He was crying, the man driving the car that stopped to help us is afraid and clearly freaking out completely. So I will just keep talking to the both of them, keeping them assured and calm. Telling them that all will be well if we follow my instructions. I said; please, I know what I am doing.

Which now, I am sure did seem strange coming from a clearly calm and in control eleven year old female, who had no CPR training or experience in these matters. Yet I did, if you know what I mean, just another day in paradise right!

The emergency room doctors successfully attach the nose perfectly into place, then grafted skin from his hip. And this guy heals up perfectly, barely a scratch left to notice. So then the emergency room doctor is asking my mom where did your daughter receive her awesome CPR training, and how did she know exactly what to do at her young age? My mother just shook her head, and said, 'She has no experience of any kind.' The doctor then said, 'Well, I placed two stitches into the top of her head, she may have a tiny cut but nothing to fear, so just watch her for the next 24 hours. Keep her awake tonight, and watch her in case she has concussion.' He then said, 'I am a medical doctor, and I cannot explain what kind of miracle I just witnessed in this emergency room today, especially the things that came out of your little girl's mouth. And the way she saved this guy's life, and calmed everyone around her, it's amazing, just amazing.'

I went home and said to God and Jesus too, I was sorry for being so selfish and to please forgive me. I will do better while I am down here, because I know you guys are always with me. And you have always been with me, and I will never die or be alone, here or there. I was thankful for the experience, yet I still felt homesick and lonely. As I had always been before the car wreck, which happened for no reason on a clear beautiful sunny day. With no one else in sight for miles, we just drove across the road and into a telephone pole.

Then at the age of about thirty, I met my dad's brother in a local pharmacy where I was working at the time. After he had just been pronounced dead at where else, but ECM hospital. The same hospital where I was born, and where I took the guy from the car wreck, after my NDE. My uncle was excited and seemed eager to share his story with the pharmacist. I was then employed under his name, it was Jason. I had no contact with this uncle until I met him in the pharmacy that day. I was working my way through college, and I was also writing all of the term papers that I was allowed, on ESP and NDE.

My life has been so affected by both of these special gifts, so I walked over and asked Jason can you tell me about your NDE for a paper I am working on for college. He agreed to do that. He said that he woke up in the morgue fifteen minutes after being pronounced dead. And that he had come back after being allowed to, from the other side. From heaven, to apologize to his family for not being a better person to them, but he said that he loved it there! And he said he couldn't wait to go back.

He remembered how he could fly, and how all of his dreams came true there, he said that it was awesome. And I said; Yeah, I know! He said that he planned to go back in about three months. In three month's time, he died again. This time staying that way.

Then a second customer, a longtime friend and customer of the pharmacy comes into the store one day with pretty much the exact same story. So I asked him to share his experience, and he too had returned to make it up to his wife and son because he was not very nice to them. But while he was dead he said that he flew across his dream farm and land. Both of these men had spoken of the beautiful green grass over there, and the awesome feelings that were so good that no human could ever describe them.

This man's name was Jack, and my dad funny enough also had another brother whose first name was Jack. Now, Jack told me that he loved heaven, and that he also loved flying. And that he wanted to return as soon as possible, and in about three months, he would go. So he too died three months later, and stayed on the other side. I bet he is enjoying his flying and his perfect farmland.

When I was in college in my late thirties, I hired a tutor to help me with my algebra, and we become close friends very quickly. We spent a great deal of time together yet we were never sexually involved, but we were as close as two people could get. I called it a spiritual love/friendship. I vowed never too allow our time as friends to become anything else, and Joe agreed. Joe was the twin brother of one of my best girlfriends from the second grade, her name is Jackie.

One day I told Joe all about my NDE. Joe was so surprised and thrilled, and for the first time ever I found someone who really wanted to know every detail, and he made me promise that it was all true. He loved it, and he said that he would die first. Just like his dad had, and one of his brothers before him had. I said no way, I will die first Joe, because I'm sick and having surgery now, and you're young and healthy.

I said; anyway, my own mom used to say that she would live to see the holy war of the biblical revelation begin, or take place. And my mom said that I will more than likely die at age forty-one, and she would laugh about it. So I told Joe that I will be the one who dies first, at forty-one years of age. And that I will play practical jokes on him from heaven. So I said, 'You remember this discussion Joe, and if you promise that you believe in God and Jesus, and that you know them as you have said, and that you know that I can fly. I promise you, I will be dead at forty-one years of age.'

And he said laughing, 'I would just like to see your face if all of this comes true, and you Jennifer can make flower arrangements with blue for my funeral.' So I agreed, and I said, 'Joe if you die at forty-one, send me the publisher's clearing house van with a check for ten million dollars because with all my medical bills I have, I sure could use it' - laughing. I thought no more of it until last June 2007, when Joe sat down at the age of forty-one years of age and died without any forewarning, except what we had discussed over sixteen years ago. And every possible practical joke Joe could have possibly played on me he did, after his death. Until I remembered our agreement.

Also my dad and his sister went into the Hospital three years ago and of course it was that same ECM Hospital where I was born. They both had multiple NDES, and as a matter of fact my aunt (my dad's sister), told me that when she was going back over, there where all of her people there, just waiting for her. She told me things she had no way of possibly knowing about my personal life at that time.

At her older age and having not been in contact with me for many, many years, and she had not seen my dad in a couple of years either. However, she told me of her own NDE and I did not need to ask her how she saw my home from over there. And it was all ready and beautiful. She also told me the exact proper order of her, and her husband's death. And of my dad's and my own mom's and brother's deaths. And yes, they all occurred in the proper order that she revealed them to me from her hospital bed in ECM Hospital. So to make a long story short, if there are only 774 a day in the USA, good. As I do not have time for much more of this stuff!

It's like I have been a magnet for NDE's, and when people are dying of cancer or whenever, and they are uncomfortable about preparing to leave this physical world, they seem to be much happier whenever I visit their hospital room. Or wherever it is that the person maybe. Their families always tell me this!

Once I even received a fifty dollar check from a man/friend who died of cancer, when I needed another surgery. So after his funeral, which I attended, I received the check and a letter from Donald, telling me to use the money to get well. So that I could stay and help others, by just staying the way I am, honest and down to earth. Well by now, yes, I am down to earth, and very grounded. And I will be for a long time yet. It's just a gut feeling!

Jenny.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    In the 1970s

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain   Accident    Other not yet known.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   All of the time I was aware!

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      All of the time I was aware!

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I was aware time was on hold for me to decide or receive instructions. There was no pressure, but then back on earth time it was as it should be, best as I can remember.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    A beautiful field of the most unusual colored flowers appeared. Which I had only ever seen those flowers with those colors once, in my mom's yard. When I was about eight to ten years old. I went to show them to my mom and they were gone. They had appeared as a bush of beautiful colored flowers, they were just awesome, but they were gone when I ran to show my mom!

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    We spoke with our minds you do not require hearing during the NDE, you have a clear understanding which has no need of any words!

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No     I just popped-up and there was an awareness that I could fly in my spirit form, and I could hold myself up over there like when you are in a pool of water and your bobbing up and down gently. You know however that you are in control.

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     They were others that I was visibly aware of. But I was too disagreeable to pay them any attention, they were clearly going about their own business. And my argument was more important to me, and also the light or (Christ) behind my right shoulder was talking to me, and instructing me on what I had to do.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Bright, beautiful, and warm. Yellow and glowing sunlight. Earth's type of light - yet superior to our own earth's yellow sunlight!

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was in a beautiful dimension and the color and the colors of flowers were totally awsome! The best ever!

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Pure joy and happiness, I was home. Then anger and rebellious, and then agreeable and back to feeling okay. I am feeling a grateful happiness on earth but I was very sad that I had to return to the earth. Now I understand why, but then I did not.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I received exact instructions on how to save another person's life, and what and when and how to do it. And I did it, and it happened, just as it was foretold.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   One father One Son

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      No

What is your religion now?      Liberal   One God One Christ

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew I was back home. I had always begged God and Jesus to let me die and come home. I repeatedly tried to kill myself for years and I finally just gave up. I knew God would take or leave me for my purpose, so I came to terms with being here for now, anyway!

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  I am sure that God and Jesus put me on a different path after my own NDE!

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   No proof that it happened.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No     I was already an experienced ESP type of person. But I was sent back for a very large miracle type of purpose. That is even now, being slowly revealed unto me.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       All of it was. And I think that my own story of my NDE, and the many unusual stories written here, speak for themselves.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    People just don't get it, but every great once in a while you meet the other ones with experiences like I have and it helps to know there are others. I have always told everyone that would listen about my own NDE from the moment I was able to talk about it. I was awestruck at the goodness and the love of Our Father and brother Jesus Christ! It's totally worth it!

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     It's as real to me as this is!

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     Even after one of my own younger brothers died he too came to speak with me in a dream like vision. Where he floated above my bed wearing a hat I had given him years before, and he was talking about how happy he was over there. And how I should reassure our mom of his existence and his happiness, so I agreed! I also had dreamt the entire funeral for him prior to his death which was correct as it unfolded later!

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   Others in my family having the same NDE's and telling me about them as well as some customers when I worked in a local pharmacy.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I can't wait for all people to know what I know for sure!

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      I do not know. I think if you can read and clearly understand them, they must be highly unusual? I don't know enough about others like me yet!

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jennifer_v_nde.html