{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jennifer_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Jennifer T NDE 4102","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jennifer T NDE 4102  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jennifer T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1978 Jennifer T NDE 4102  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I am looking at myself lying in a hospital bed. I am feeling strange, almost dreamlike, but in awe of seeing myself. Something takes hold of my left hand and I turn around, to my right. I am looking at this Being of Light and feel calm and at peace. The Being of Light takes hold of my right hand and releases my left while communicating with me that everything will be all right. The communication is not with spoken words but I just know this. I see a small light, which seems so far away. 

During this time, I am feeling that this Being of Light is both male and female. I describe it as being calming and protective like a woman yet strong like a male. The Being of Light has no facial features and the light it emits is very soothing. In a blink of an eye, I am standing in a non-defined area with my Being of Light standing behind me and to my left with four other Beings of Light scattered to my right. 

I am looking at a book, a HUGE book, on an equally large table. A man appears, I know this because of his long brown hair and beard. He is wearing a white glowing robe. He flips through the book, looks at me and asks me with spoken words if I want to stay or go back. I am seeing my mother and infant sister, not in pictures but in my mind and then I wake. The first thing I see is the green tile wall in my hospital room and I start screaming. I remember people rushing in around me and that was that.

I also must add that I had been in a coma for one week and my memory from the age of eight and earlier had been erased.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'December, 1980'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Direct head injury    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   The entire experience.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The entire experience.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time seemed to go fast but being so young I am not sure if that was the case.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Because of the closed head injury I suffered amnesia and am not able to recall anything before the accident.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I saw a small beam of light and then was standing in a room with the same light field, presumably having gone through some sort of tunnel.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     One accompanied me on my journey. There were four other Beings of Light in the room and then a man was also present. He is the one who had flipped through the large book and asked me if I wanted to stay or go back.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A small beam of light. Also a Being of Light that accompanied me during my journey.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The room filled with light was very beautiful.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I feel calmness, Wonder, and Awe.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   None

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I did not grow in a religious family. Organized religion actually scares the hell out of me and I stay as far away from it as possible. I do feel very spiritual and have a strong understanding of people and their emotions.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   None

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I did not grow in a religious family. Organized religion actually scares the hell out of me and I stay as far away from it as possible. I do feel very spiritual and have a strong understanding of people and their emotions.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   At the time, no. It was only later in life, around age eleven that I experienced and remembered my first 'special knowledge'. I was walking through the halls of my junior high school and I KNEW that I would not get pregnant until I was married and lived in my own house. A very strange thing for an eleven year old to experience, I must say. And a very true thing as well. This has been happening to me since my journey.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   At the time, being so young, I did not know what it was that had happened. It was only years later, at the age of fourteen did I first tell someone.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Many of the questions above did not apply to me at the time but do apply now. ESP, psychic knowledge and self-actualization have been part of my life since my teen years. I have not had any 'visions' of the future but have said many things that have come true. Some took many years, some just seconds.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I always believed that the flash of a baby was my infant sister but I now feel that is may have been my son.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Six years lapsed between the experience and sharing it. My mother cried and begged me to tell her over and over. I did go to church once with a friend in high school and told the pastor. He got very angry and told me that my experience did not mean I was saved. I have not been in a church since. My first boyfriend's mother did tell me that the book I saw was/is 'The Book of Life'. I did not know what that was until the age of seventeen.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   I have no memory of my life before my NDE.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I didn't view it at all. It wasn't until a later age did I discuss and really feel it. Even now, when I share my feelings, it feels like it's still happening. Everything I experienced was so profound that I can feel the Being of Light holding my hand even now.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jennifer_t_nde.html