{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jennifer_m_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Jennifer M Probable NDE 9407","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jennifer M Probable NDE 9407  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jennifer M Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						5045 Jennifer M Probable NDE 9407  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    January 22, 2022 I went into Alexian Brothers hospital in elk Grove Village Illinois for a posterior L5 fusion because the L5 was collapsed onto the SI joint with six other failed surgeries. The surgery went well and I was sent home a couple hours after the surgery due to Covid they didn’t want anybody staying in the hospital due to Covid if they didn’t Have to. I was fine for the first few hours when I got home I ate dinner with my family guy then took my medication’s and laid down to take a nap and approximately 10 PM my daughter came in to check on me and I was standing up and down moving my arms making weird gestures unable to answer questions extreme difficulty walking and she then called 911.The paramedics did not know what was going on either.  The paramedics supposedly attempted to ask me questions and wasn’t getting responses they didn’t know what was wrong but they took me to the hospital. 

I was completely unconscious I woke up two days later and I was told that I was running a fever the highest was 104 I had Five positions looking over me specialist infectious disease lung specialist a kidney specialist a house primary physician the doctor in the emergency room that saved my life and my orthopedic surgeon which they all told me that I was a miracle they didn’t know why I was alive they said I stopped breathing and they were amazed that I was not in worse condition. The doctors told me they ran every test they possibly could on me and they thought I was losing blood somewhere they were debating for three days whether to do transfusion on me but on the third day they finally realized that my anemia was really low super low and they started giving me iron through the IV which brought my numbers back up to normal. 

I was having issues with speaking Remembering answering questions I was having oxygen issues to my brain every time I talk to her set up my oxygen level would drop really low but that cleared up after five days. 

On the fifth day that I came home I had a horrific nightmare woke up shaking and terrified and I then realize that I had a near death experience and I remembered what had happened to me which one Me floating over my hospital bed I was in like a whitish grayish fog but underneath me was darker like a deep dark gray to black and I could see in the hospital bed I knew I was floating above my bed I could see it and I knew there was approximately 10 family members around me but really wasn’t able to communicate with them I seem to be there for a purpose like I was awaiting  a decision, I could see off in the far distance a super white yellowish goldish very bright light far off to the right of me and I knew that could possibly be where Angels or heaven was but I seem to be suspended in this certain spot and I was being spoken to telepathically there wasn’t really a sense of physical body and Told that I was awaiting a decision I knew that I could die but finally after sometime I was told that I need to go back that I need to be there for my daughter and I need to be a more loving considerate person to try to make my life better than what it has been I had the most intense peaceful carefree feeling as I was Suspended there in this space it was just an indescribably peaceful feeling that I cannot compare to any feelings that we normally feel on a day-to-day basis. 

So two days after being unconscious I woke up and the doctor that saved my life kept coming in to see me and he would say do you know how lucky you are do you know that you’re a miracle do you know that you stop breathing and I think he may have been trying to Trigger a memory and me but I wasn’t realizing it at the time I was in a pretty good fog because of the lack of oxygen to my Brain so I didn’t realize it until I came home after the fifth day and I had that nightmare which four months later is still playing me I don’t have it as frequently but I still do have it and I think I’ve had a glimpse of what it is and I think I was shown that there can be an amazing heaven and there can be another terrifying place with entities that were horrifying but one night I had this dream nightmare and I just seen pure blackness and I could sense that there was something horrifying with in the blackness but I still do not see this nightmare completely yet subsequently I have been put on a medication for PTSD and anxiety but my doctor assures me that this should eventually stop. I am trying to be a better person. More loving and helpful and I’m still trying to adjust to a more physical life because for the last 20 years I’ve been in debilitating pain and especially the last four years I’ve had surgery after surgery so I am now trying to adjust to a life with less pain and I’m trying to rebuild the weakness up that I have in my back I’ve talked to my doctor about this experience I’ve talked to my pastor about this experience and it definitely feels like a life altering experience  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 January 22, 2022  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness        Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   I had surgery for a posterior L5 fusion and I was sent home the same day I contracted sepsis during the surgery and within eight hours I was in Oregon failure kidneys No oxygen to the brain lungs filled with fluid I stop breathing and I had a fever of 104  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   The feeling that I had of peace and calm and I knew if I died it would be OK it wasn’t scary at all even though part of it I was showing a darker space where some people may go  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was being spoken to telepathically  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything seem to be clearer fresher crisper like there’s No dirtiness No pollution it was just perfect  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I didn’t hear through my ears I heard through my mind I was being spoken to telepathically  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Approximately 10 family members were surrounding me  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Very extremely bright white yellowish goldish light  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Tranquility peace acceptance  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

  Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others.     I feel now that we are here for each other to have complete peace on earth No fighting No arguing No arguments about stupid trivial things war these are things that should not be happening  
  
Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No     I knew of past events of my life but my entire life than a flash before my eyes I was aware that my family was the most important thing to me  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of No return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian   I was brought up Catholic Ameri Lutheran because my husband is Lutheran but the day of the incident January 22, 2022 I’ve had a power of attorney made up and it was under the Catholic religion  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I attend more. Speak to more members read the Bible more  

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   Lutheran  

  Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I know now how Jesus or god wants us to behave I know how I was granted Grace to be here for the sake of my family and others  
  
Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I had some values before but now I know how much more important they need to be to me  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   I was being spoken to telepathically and it was in my mind and it was a tranquil peaceful voice a calm voice and to me it seem like more of a Male voice  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Yes I had the sense that we are all connected to a much greater universe  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I sense that I have first hand knowledge that we are to be here for each other to help one another. Not for money or Material gain  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     I’ve gotten the sense that there is a existence after death I’m not so Sure that it is a physical reality like we have I have a feeling that I was told there are many many different scenarios that people can end up in and a lot of it being telepathic  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     We need to be more loving and caring towards each other and all the horrible things that happened here on earth should not be happening  

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     We definitely need to be more loving towards one another not just our own family but everybody in the world  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I have a greater sense of the spiritual world I know now that there is a place we go after death and where we end up is greatly decided upon how we are in our earthly life  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Was dealing with domestic violence and I don’t take any crap anymore. I told him. My husband if he continues I will leave and I don’t care how much he begs. I’m not putting up with it. And our relationship so far has been the best it’s been since 30 years ago  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the ex  I will never forget this experience it was very clear very deliberate  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I’ve seen a few things shadow figure when I first came home around my house and a girl with curly hair blonde curly hair  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Being able to know that my family members are there and being able to know that death should not be  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My family my pastor and my primary physician  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I thought maybe near death experiences were more of a made up story than what people had actually gone  

  What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     Well the fact that I was told I stop breathing the fact that I was told I was a miracle and discussing this with my primary physician he had told me that doctors themselves believe when a patient feels like they’ve been hovering over the body or they see their body and their outside of it the doctors believe that this is when the soul leaves the body  
  
At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No               				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jennifer_m_probable_nde.html