{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jennifer_b_nde_8282.html","mytitle":"Jennifer B NDE 8282","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jennifer B NDE 8282  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jennifer B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						4334 Jennifer B NDE 8282  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was bike riding with my sister and a friend.  I fell off the bike and fractured my skull.  I died  several times on the way to the hospital and was in a coma for a week.  
  				    
  The experience does not translate into language.  It is an experience that we will all get to in time.  The biggest feeling was  not only of peace, but of completeness, and understanding of everything.  All questions were answered, but since it was on a different level it was not important.  There was no need to consider individual issues because all were known.  It was like being a molecule of water in a sea, but you are also the whole sea.  It was like returning to the source and renewing.  Individual bodies are so restricting and limiting in comparison.
  
  When I woke up out of my coma, my short-term memory was poor. But I remember being  angry with my Mother.  I blamed her for making me come back.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  9/5/1981

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    CPR given. Direct head injury.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   Skull fracture TBI

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  As stated above.  But it was a feeling and a knowing that is not limited to an event.  It is all happening at the same time.  There is no focus on just one thing.  I lost awareness of my body.

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      It was not an alertness with the same senses we use in this life.  It does not translate.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I don't remember.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     All time was known.  It was not relevant.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It doesn't compare or translate.  It is on a whole other plane of existence.  It is a calm we do not know here.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Does not relate.  Not using the same senses.  Using higher senses that we rarely use here.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     The tunnel was alive, but not fearful.  It was pulsating and breathing like a birthing tunnel.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was at the end of the tunnel.  It was soo bright, but olving and helpful, like a Mother.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm.     I was not here.  But these past few questions don't allow me to answer.  I knew all about past, but ddi not focus on specific events or individuals.  I knew all.  I had returned to the source.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calm, peace, no fear,satisfaction, and all knowing.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe.     I knew about everything, but it is not relevant to focus individually.  It was higher senses rarely encountered in this life.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future.     Time was all at once or all known.  It does not translate.  But you know the whole world.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Do not know

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Secular unaffiliated

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     Content that I could not have known of.  It does not translate to this life.  The feeling of being whole, and complete.  Returning to the source.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I became more compassionate for others.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     That there is life after death.  Or that there is more that happens after we die, but we do not understand it yet.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     We return to the source from where we came and we may leave again.  We are all one.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I call it the source.  Where everything comes from, where we return to.  I think to be reborn.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That there was a reason my spirit returned to this vessel.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Do the right thing.  Help each other. Promote peace.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I was returning to the source for a next life.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     It all comes from the source just as we do.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     The most peace, calm and love was all I felt.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I was 11 years old, so I did not think much about death yet.  I answered these questions allowing the word 'God' to be used for what I call the source.  I think they are pretty much the same and it allows me to discuss religion with people.  I am very spiritual, but not religious.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I love more and care more for my special people.  I try harder to be a better person.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It does not translate into words.  It is more feeling and knowing without doubt.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the  experience. It was life changing.  I could never forget.  It made me a better person.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I sometimes just know things, but I do not have the ability to use it.  It just happens and I know.  It can really scare people sometimes, although  it does not happen often.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It was a whole new life for me after.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    When people would ask.  Especially closer to when it happened.  But it does not translate and people cannot understand.  It can be frustrating.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     I know what happened, and these thoughts cannot be changed or taken from me.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I feel farther away from it, but I know I will return when he time is right.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Sometimes the memory feeling comforts me when I cannot sleep.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Not at this time.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       All answers should have a spot to write in your own answer.  Words are so limiting.           				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jennifer_b_nde_8282.html