{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jenner_a_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Jenner A Possible NDE 2688","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jenner A Possible NDE 2688  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jenner A Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  						886  Jenner A Possible NDE  2688  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I've had contrast during magnetic resonance imaging's seven or eight times before so there was no reason to think of having any problems. I had just gone through an hour and forty minutes of NO contrast magnetic resonance imaging. We were getting ready to do the last twenty minutes of WITH contrast. The guy found my vein, injected the contrast and started to push me back under the table. Immediately I started having a severe reaction. I started screaming, 'Pull me out! Pull me out! Something's wrong!' I knew there was a severe problem. I've never felt like this. I've handled lots of problems - including brain surgery like a champ.

They pulled me out sat me up and put me in another chair. Someone called 911 and they discussed shooting me with epinephrine and how much. Meanwhile, I couldn't breathe through my nose and my chest was clamping down. They couldn't find my pulse or heartbeat. I started convulsing while I was trying to tell them what diseases I already had and to be super careful with my neck because of the syringomyelia. They could paralyze me if they turned my head wrong. Just my hands and arms were flopping around. I was crying at first because they were in my face asking me if I was itching. That's a first stage allergic reaction. I was in the severe stage. The Office Manager lady recognized it. Too bad the stupid doctor didn't.

Finally, I start seeing a tunneling view of my vision. It's darkening around the sides of my vision. There's a clarity in my mind of what this means. I can hear these people still asking me questions. I ask for a Kleenex because I can't breathe out of my nose. Someone hands me one. I blow my nose and then it no longer matters. It's getting darker and darker around the sides. I'm in a dark tunnel. I can't hear them like before. All of a sudden, the lady grabs my face and is in the center of the tunnel (she got right in my face as she saw me slipping away and shouted at me). I wanted to explain I was sorry and didn't want to scare them, that it wasn't their fault, don't worry, I'm not afraid. I'm a believer in Jesus and know where I'm going and it's safe. All I can get out is a whisper, 'Ma'am, I'm sorry, I'm dying now.' She is screaming something about me not dying and something about if they'd given me the epinephrine. I guess they had because just as it's getting darker and darker I'm ripped backwards into pain and my body convulsing and noise and an ambulance, fire trucks, yelling, etc. I guess the epinephrine worked. I'm back. NOW I'm scared because I was on my way out and I was heading out without anyone I loved there to say goodbye. I started crying because it was so sad that I had to go with no one to say goodbye to me. By the time the ambulance got me to the hospital, I was perfectly fine. No need to check into the hospital. But, I've done nothing but sleep since. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 'May 26, 2006'  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    Allergic reaction     I was having an MRI for spinal cord injury.  I've had 7-8 of this WITH contrast previously with NO problems.  The minute they injected me with the contrast I had violent reactions and went from fine to the worst reactions possible.  Other Having MRI for spinal cord disease and back problems.  I was having the most severe reaction you can have to the gadolinium contrast used in magnetic resonance imaging. There are three levels and I was at the rare level. The level that can kill you while the stupid doctor was asking me the questions back at the first level, 'Do you itch?' I was dying and this guy was asking if I was itching. Good thing the Office Manager lady was on the ball and called 911.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Everything seemed 'crystal clear' like there was no mistaking what was going on.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Right before the tunnel vision happened and right after the epinephrine worked and I was 'brought back'.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   Things seemed to be in slow-motion while seeing the tunnel. Like I was barely just starting to see it and given just a few more moments, I would have been walking, but it was incredibly slow motion like. I had the feeling that the vision is slow motion and then the walking would have speeded up. It's strange to tell how I know this. I've always had weird experiences but try not to think about them because they seem to clash with my faith.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Well, I don't normally have tunnel vision.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    As I was going, dying, the voices around me either didn't matter to me and I tuned them out or my body just shut them out. Not sure.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     My vision had started to tunnel, I hadn't started to pass through it yet when the epinephrine started working. My thoughts are that had I gone any further, then I would have left the body and started 'walking' through the tunnel. Maybe I was just so aware at the beginning that I noticed it with my eyes before my soul separated from my body and started walking. I know this is scientific and you only want what I DID experience, but I will say that had I walked I KNOW I would have saw Him. I just didn't get to that part. *He is Jesus Christ, of course*.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       DURING the exact moments I didn't feel any emotion. I wasn't afraid because of my faith, but I also wasn't excited. I just 'was'.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Neither  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     It's drawing me closer to God.  

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     It's drawing me closer to God.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   The only special knowledge was that I knew, without a doubt, was that I was dying.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   That I 'knew' I was dying. I started seeing in tunnel vision.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I don't know yet. I feel 'different'. I don't WANT anything like that unless it comes from God. I do know that something is different, but if it's something freaky I WON'T be talking about it or sharing it. I'm not 'SideShow Jen.'  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It showed me how truly awful it would be to die alone.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Uncertain    I've told my husband and some of my online friends that I almost died. I've told my oldest brother that I almost died and saw the tunnel, etc. That's about it. My oldest brother I'll tell everything if the time comes. My DH and friends don't need to be bothered with weirdness. My brother is goofy like me and will get a kick out this stuff.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   Meaning? From watching TV? Everyone has seen stuff like that before. I haven't done any research or anything. I only Googled this site because of what happened to me last Friday freaked me out and I wanted to see if anyone else has gone through what I have. I'm guessing that's a big YES!  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It just happened a few days ago. I can tell you years from now that I will still believe that it is definitely real.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Real - again it just happened a few days ago.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Nothing, thank you.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jenner_a_possible_nde.html