{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jenna_p_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Jenna P Probable NDE 3811","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jenna P Probable NDE 3811  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jenna P Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			1789 Jenna P Probable NDE 3811  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					The first thing I recall was floating in darkness. My head and torso were contained in a clear rectangular box, which was filled with a plasma like substance. I was only a torso at this time I had no arms or legs that I could see or feel. I was surrounded by beings who were helping me. I can't describe what the beings looked like. They were just there helping me, taking care of me. I wasn't frightened at all. I felt comfortable and cared for. After I was no longer in the box, I recall just floating. I didn't go anywhere in particular I was just floating in darkness. I experienced no negative feelings or emotions everything was just great. I had no worries at all, not a care in the world. When I try to explain it to people, I just tell them that I am no longer afraid of death because being alive is a lot more difficult. The thing I remember the most from my experience is the ease of doing things. There was no stress or strain. I was just being and being was simple and fulfilling.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  8-23-08 - 8-28-08

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was in a drug induced coma due to a collapsed lung after a motorcycle accident. I was hit by a large delivery truck on the left side of my body. I ended up with seventeen broken bones and a collapsed lung. I had two blood transfusions and was in a drug induced coma for five days.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   During my time in the clear box.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During my time in the clear box.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no space or time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I wasn't really using my senses. They weren't necessary.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Like I said. I could see and hear things but I wasn't using eyes or ears to do so. I just could. It might not make sense but that was my experience.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I was surrounded by the beings in the box who were caring for me. There was no literal communication but there was still an understanding that they were caring for me and I was safe.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was in a beautifully feeling dimension. It was mostly darkness but comfortable and beautiful.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Satisfied, easy, free, and peaceful.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   I consider myself to be a very spiritual person but not associated with any religion.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I now am assured in my belief that there is a higher power or powers that I will eventually join in death.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   'I still feel the same about my beliefs. I am very spiritual, I believe in a higher power or a presence larger than our human consciousness.  I now however have no fear of death which is something I couldn't say with certainty before.'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I now am assured in my belief that there is a higher power or powers that I will eventually join in death.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Everything was okay. There were no worries and no need to worry.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I focus more on the important things in life and less on insignificant things. I value time with my loved ones more than anything else.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It is hard to explain the feelings I had during this experience. I was completely comfortable and I felt safe and secure. Everything seemed so easy, simple really. When I try to explain it to people I just tell them that it was so easy just floating around.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The peace was meaningful. I am no longer afraid to die. I know now that life is far more difficult than death.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    When I came out of the coma I asked my mom if I was really put in the liquid because the experience was so real. I then told her about it. I continued to tell others after the fact. I am not sure if they were influenced.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I have heard about the white light and tunnel type of experience.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jenna_p_probable_nde.html