{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jen_v_ndelike.html","mytitle":"Jen V NDE-Like 4023","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jen V NDE-Like 4023  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jen V NDE-Like  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE-Like  			1935 Jen V NDE-Like 4023  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was slowly aware of a light ahead of me. I seemed to be pulled along toward it. There were stairs in front of me but I wasn't aware of using them - they were just there. Along the sides of me were other people who were in the darkness that were trying to climb up but couldn't and seemed stuck in a huge mass of themselves. All things that happened next seemed to happen all at once, or in very fast succession. I came into the light. The light was so brilliant but not warm nor cold. It was almost as if it consumed me. A feeling of Love so powerful and consuming washed over me. It was so potent that you could almost reach out and touch it.

A group of people came toward me with warm greetings. They spoke to me with thought and I knew they were like me but I could not focus on facial features. They were to, consumed by the light and it spread from each of them. As I was aware of them welcoming me, I was also then aware that there seemed to be some confusion that I shouldn't be there. I was told it was not my time and that I should return to finish my life's work. There was no negativity about it but a comforting gesture to return, that I was there by accident. During those moments, I had looked into the distance and realized that it was so beautiful, colors were so vibrant, and my senses were so alive. I had a sense that all knowledge that was to be had was there for my knowing if I so chose. That is when I understood that I would have two boys in my lifetime and they would be some years apart. I also knew that I would have a rough life for some time but would find someone/something that would enrich myself for the rest of my years. It was also made known that toward my latter years I would make a huge difference of some kind in the world.

Almost as soon as it began, it was ending. Those that had welcomed me were gently moving me back toward the darkness. I was told that in time I would visit again and to be vigilant in my life. I went backward into the darkness and saw the people on either side of me pulling at each other and trying to find the light. And the next thing I was aware of was waking from my bed and having that feeling of Love burning in my chest. I was saddened by having to return but knew there was more of my life to live. To this day, some sixteen years later; I can feel that Love and I have an overpowering sense that there is something great to come and to be watchful and vigilant.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Summertime 1993

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    none  Other I was in a deep depression.  Physical/mental abuse was an everyday experience with my father at that time.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was told that it was not my time and I should return.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was as if I could see everything. There were no limits to what I could see if I chose to.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Same as my sight. I could hear all that there was to hear if I chose to hear it.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I'm not sure if you could describe it as a tunnel but it was a darkness that lead me toward a light. Once I came upon the light it was as if I passed through it and there was no more darkness.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     When I passed through the light I was greeted by others like me. I cannot say that I recognized them but they knew me. They were happy to see me and we communicated these feelings without words.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw a soft, brilliant and encouraging light. It was so intense and permeated myself and everything around it. It was not a blinding light but a consuming light. It was very easy on my sight.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Indescribable peace and love. The feeling of love was so potent that it consumed me. It has stayed with me all the years, it was so strong.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I understood that my life was not finished and I was to have children, two in fact, both boys, and I was even aware of the age gap between the two.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Knowledge was there for the knowing.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes It helped me to realize that we are all the same and that death is not an ending but a transition to something much more fulfilling.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There are not words to describe completely and fully what I experienced.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I am capable of being very empathetic to everyone I encounter. It is as if I can feel what they are feeling. No words need be spoken, as I just know what they are feeling and how to make them feel better. I also have an uncanny ability to know what happens next and have sometimes predicted what would happen in the future - all has come true.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    After the experience it took me nearly ten years to be able to talk about it without getting emotional. I have only shared my story with three people.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   I grew up with only my father, mother and sister. Grandparents were not part of my life and so I had never known anyone to die. I was sheltered from most forms of media too, so there was never a time that I had been exposed to such things.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I often wonder, why me?      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jen_v_ndelike.html