{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jen_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Jen C NDE 3752","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jen C NDE 3752  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jen C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1748 Jen C NDE 3752  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had been dealing with insomnia for a few days and decided to try taking a sleep aid. I bought a tincture of valerian root and took the recommended dosage. This worked for two days then I couldn't sleep again. I became so frustrated I doubled the dosage. I began to feel sleepy and went to lie down when I collapsed to the floor. I became frightened and decided I should go to the hospital. I drove to a friend's house, because I couldn't get my cell phone to turn on, and collapsed in the driveway. My friend called 911 and I was rushed to the hospital. When the doctors found what I had taken, they expressed no real concern saying that I could just sleep it off. I was wheeled into a hallway to wait for an empty room. I lay there staring at the ceiling when I stopped breathing. 

I then felt myself being pulled up out of my body and out of the hospital into this vast void that was both dark and light. It was silent and still, strange but peaceful. Then I felt myself yanked down and I was back in my body with two nurses looking over me. They didn't ever tell me that I had stopped breathing but I heard them discussing it with the doctor outside my room when I was evaluated. Since that day I have had a heightened awareness of things and during deep meditation I can go back to that void I experienced but stay in my body.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  November 2006

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    sleep medication accidental overdose  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   The moment I entered the void.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The moment I entered the void.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Seemed like I was there for a long time but it was a minute or less.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     During the experience I could see the outline of things, not so much people or animals but just things. Now I still see the outlines or light and dark figures that dart away from my direct sight.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Could hear voices but now I don't know, sometimes think I hear whispers.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     Perhaps shadows of other things.

The experience included:       Void

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   A clouded light in darkness.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     don't konw where I was but it was somewhere, think outerspace like inside a nebula

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       None, all was still and peaceful.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   spiritualist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am more open and am a believer in many faiths.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   faithful spiritualist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am more open and am a believer in many faiths.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Felt like I held the knowledge of the cosmos.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am more involved with people who have similar abilities and or beliefs.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Pre-cognitive dreams, see things others can't, feel presence of other things.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It was all meaningful because it gave me a larger sense of the universe and allowed me to see it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was a few months after the event, most people thought I had dreamed it.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Every day after the event I have had a pre-cognitive dream and at the end of each dream I go back to the void. When I started doing meditation, I could go to the void while being awake and conscious. So I definitely believe it happened.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Same as above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   During meditation I go back to the void.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I wish everyone could experience being in the void, there would be no more hatred in the world.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jen_c_nde.html