{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jeffrie_d_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Jeffrie D Probable NDE 4443","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jeffrie D Probable NDE 4443  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jeffrie D Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2221 Jeffrie D Probable NDE 4443  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had been playing and somehow my nose began bleeding. Mother had me in the bathroom with ice trying to apply pressure to get my nose to stop bleeding. NOTHING worked. I remember that as a last resort she got a butter knife and put it in ice and placed it under my upper lip in an effort to slow the bleeding. My dad was out of town on business, mom was home with four little ones and she had to have a neighbor take the two of us to the hospital. She held me on her lap and my nose continued to bleed. It had gotten dark and she pointed to the happy face in the moon (the moon was huge and bright)! We arrived at the hospital and a nurse sat me on the edge of a bed and removed the cloth from my face. She put a gown on me and pointed to the little bears printed on it; I looked down and immediately began throwing up blood and blood clots! They took me to a room and began trying to get a drop of blood from me to use to match the blood for the transfusion. They stuck my fingers, my toes, my arms, behind my knees - nothing.

Mother stood at the head of the bed and she was crying and holding onto me and kept saying, 'Say it with me, Jeffrie - The Lord is my Shepherd, I shall not want...' and we kept saying the 23rd Psalm and The Lord's Prayer over and over. I kept watching the huge light over my bed and somehow I slipped off from the bed into warmth, wellness and felt happy and I was not afraid - didn't hurt; just drifting away.

Suddenly it was as if something caught me and I opened my eyes and tried to move my left arm and couldn't because it was taped to a board with the needle delivering blood. I was SHOCKED because I had been away from there!

I got much older and I was telling mother what I had experienced and that I remembered the gown, I remembered praying with her and I told her I remembered the big light over my bed and her comment: 'There was no light over your bed.' She had had her own Near Death Experiences, so she didn't discount anything I told her - she knew.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1954

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Free Bleeder and had frequent HEAVY nose bleeds which were difficult to clot.  This one ended 6 hrs later resulting in a blood transfusion.  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Free bleeder and had frequent HEAVY nose bleeds which were difficult to clot. This one ended six hours later resulting in a blood transfusion.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was always aware of what I was experiencing.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was always aware of what I was experiencing.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     When I opened my eyes, I clearly remembered being someplace away from there.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I don't know how to answer this - I saw the light and when I was out of my body I felt sooo great - where I was it was dark but I laughed and I wasn't afraid!

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     Probably too young to tell what I was going through but I did experience darkness and I did see the huge bright light!

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I wasn't hurting or afraid; I was warm and happy and I laughed.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Attended Christian Science services occasionally with my maternal grandparents.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I KNOW there is something beyond physical death and I believe! God has been in my life and has given my family many miracles!!! Mine was only one of the many.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Hard question to answer . . . I was only 5.  My parents were/are believers but not so much denominational.  More conservative Independents politically.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I KNOW there is something beyond physical death and I believe! God has been in my life and has given my family many miracles!!! Mine was only one of the many.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   Maybe, because, even then, I didn't have (and I still don't have) a fear of dying. I just don't want to go violently.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I had that time with mom and God and I always knew it was something very special.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I had never understood the significance of 'the light' until I saw a woman on television one morning in 1975 talking about her experience going to 'the light' and there I made the connection.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jeffrie_d_probable_nde.html