{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jeffrey_c_nde_8024.html","mytitle":"Jeffrey C NDE 8024","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jeffrey C NDE 8024  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jeffrey C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4167 Jeffrey C NDE 8024  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					  					When I was 19, I found out that my girlfriend was cheating on me with one of my best friends. So I washed down several bottles of drugs with a bottle of rum. My mom called an ambulance and I went to the hospital.  Before I got there, I was out.  I normally got an euphoric feeling after taking drugs, like being high or drunk. I don't know how long it was, but the next thing I know, I felt like I was in bed and slipping off of it to my left. I didn't feel drunk or foggy at all. I instinctively tried to grab on the bed and I jumped up. I was overwhelmed with panic.  I saw images of a house, a Jaguar car, and people that I had never seen before in my life. Immediately I was thrown back on the table. I opened my eyes and I saw a doctor on top of me, giving me a chest massage. I tried to sit back up, thinking he would move out of the way but he didn't.  Again, I went into him and saw images of his wife, kids, and his car. I felt the panic in him. It was so overwhelming and repelled from these visions.  I slammed back on the table. 

I was slipping to the left again and looked to the right to see my own body next to me. When I looked back to the left, I saw a flash of blue light.  As I looked to the corner of the room to get a better look, I saw a column of light coming down to the floor.  I heard a voice from my right say, 'It's alright, we'll save you.' As I looked, I saw what truly looked like a blue fairy taking me by the hand. I caught a glimpse of a green light heading to my left but it took my hand and pulled it up over my head.  I couldn't see what it was because the two of them together pulled me around, upright, and off to the right side of the room in the corner.  I shook them off so I could see what was going on. I saw the doctor over me trying to revive me, a nurse at my head putting an oxygen mask or something on me, and my mom in the doorway with her arms crossed.  The little blue angel said, 'We don't have time, we have to hurry.' 

As I began to really comprehend the situation they took me into the column of light and it was a trip. The motion and lights seem to make me feel a little bit sick, so I closed my eyes for a while and opened them every once and a while out of pure curiosity. I saw the proverbial 'Stairway to Heaven' along the way with someone being led up it by a dog.  Eventually, I saw clouds. As I tried to look over my shoulder and down to the ground, I saw a huge crowd of people standing in front of the gate of heaven. The little angels put me down just inside the gate and to the right of it in a room.  I was kneeling with my eyes closed for a minute. It was so cold, and as I though that, it stopped. I opened my eyes to see that I was in a room with cloud walls. I started to walk towards the clouds and a voice said, 'Don't do it.  You'll regret it.  You'll be lost forever.' I turned back around and was pretty angry because I fully intended for dead to be dead.  I was realizing that this is not what I expected. This wasn't dead, it was just more living in a different place. 

I was an arrogant, angry 19 year old. I thought to myself, 'So this heaven.  At least they could have given me a bench or something to sit on.' Just as I looked down to a place where I would have put one, there was a white marble bench. I thought, 'Great, a marble bench. I bet this is going to be cold.' But it wasn't. As I sat down on it, a corner of the room turned flat.  The clouds started to get dark and swirl. It opened like an elevator door, and there were three figure standing there silhouetted by a bright light. I could feel them as well as see them. One of them was my grandmother, and another one, a very old lady said, 'See, I told you so' to my grandmother. The third one was a young girl who flew into the room with a joyous squeal and sat down next to me. The door closed and she asked me what happened. I'm not real good at telling my problems to people I don't know, but her compassion and caring nature seem to bring it all out of me. She took me on several journeys. 

The first was like the story of Christmas Scrooge. She showed me things from my past that were significant. Things that I had done that impressed people, and the things that people said that I never knew. She showed me the people that would be affected by my death; the people that would be affected by my life. It didn't really have much effect on my selfish arrogant 19-year-old self.

The next thing I knew, I was waking up in a grass field on a sunny day. I could hear really southern, hillbilly-sounding voices of a girl and a couple of guys.  They were laughing and cutting up in a really stupid way. I tried to slowly, quietly, get up to look over the grass and see who it was. I saw a run-down old shack.  As a breeze came across the grass, I caught whiff of the foulest smell. I finally saw the the people that were talking, but they weren't really people. They were wearing overalls, but they had jackal faces. They noticed me and came running over. They asked who I was and where did I come from. Just then, one of them pointed to the sky. 

As I looked, I saw a line appear and the sky ripped open.  A giant, brown creature came jumping out and landed next to me. He had horns all over his head, 5 or 6 eyes, and was cussing violently. He was not like the detailed creatures you would see in a movie. He was more like a cartoon. He smelled really bad, and was really hard to listen to. His words were full of curse words and insults. I don't remember what all he said, but he grabbed me and jumped back into the hole in the sky. We landed on a platform in space, with a wall of what looked like TV screens. They were actually cubes. There was a control panel like a podium. He told me this was hell, and in every cube was a custom made hell for every soul. He explained that people adapt to every kind of hell, and some people are more tolerant of some things than others, so hell is ever changing. He took great joy out of watching people suffer. 

As  I walked  along the wall of cubes, I was sucked into one of them and found myself in a small white room with a door and a shelf. Soon the door opened and a very good looking guy and girl walked in. They were very nice to me and asked if they could get me something. Generally in unknown situations, I don't eat or drink. It's just me. I have to be perfectly comfortable before I'll indulge myself. So I kept saying 'No' but they kept on bugging me about it until it became so annoying that I finally told them, 'Sure, a sandwich and coke.' They left and returned with a sandwich and a coke. I was skeptical, so I just let them sit on the shelf. Then they started to bug me to take a bite and enjoy.  I finally gave in and took a bite, but I looked through it to make sure it was what I thought it was. After biting into it, I was totally repulsed by the flavor. It was so rank, I spit it out and grabbed for the coke that was just as bad. I had to spit it out too. They laughed and laughed as I was trying to get the rank taste out of my mouth. Real funny, ha ha. Then they apologized and offered to get me another. I said, 'No thanks' and they again started to convince me that they were just joking and it wouldn't happen again. I finally just stopped talking to them and began to see that these two good looking people actually had jackal faces with a transparent mask or something. I realized that I could see through their masks and this whole thing was just a way of torturing me. I was whisked up and snatched out of the cube in a whirlwind.  As I left the platform, I could hear the devil screaming, 'Nooooo!' 

The next thing I knew I was being shown flashes of all the bad things I had ever done, and I was being put into other peoples' shoes as I was doing bad things to them. I could see how insensitive I was to people and didn't even know it. It was excruciating and overwhelming to relive things that I had forgotten about, or just didn't care about. I was made to feel they way I made others feel. I was so cold and was shivering.  

I realized that I was somewhere. I opened my tear-filled eyes and found myself kneeling in a cave of some kind. It had a low ceiling and a cold wet floor, and was very dark. I felt so alone and abandoned. I began to try to move through the cave in the dark. It was hard because I couldn't crawl without getting wet, and I couldn't stand up because the ceiling was so low. I didn't want to get wet because I was so cold. Soon I saw an amber light ahead, I hoped that it would be warmer near this light. I could see other people near the light and found a crowd of people all kneeling at the side of an opening.  I could tell there was fire inside. I saw a girl kneeling with her wrists cut, a man with a rope around his neck, and another with the back of his head blown out. I could hear screaming from the cave ahead, and I was trying to get one of these people to talk to me and tell me where I was. One of them told me to be quiet or I would be next. Then a huge, ugly demon reached out of the cave, grabbed them and dragged them into the cave.  I became worried that I would be next. I knelt down.  As I closed my eyes, I was overwhelmed again with visions and emotions of all the bad things in my life. I opened my eyes and realized that I could not close them unless I wanted this to happen. I looked around and realized that this was why everyone looked like a bunch of zombies. You can not close your eyes. You can not talk to the others. You can not stand up. You can not sit down. You can only kneel there on the tips of your toes and the points of your knees.  All you could do was stare at the hole of fire, listen to the screams, and hope you are not next. 

I saw a man in a robe who was about 40 years old with a trimmed beard and a balding head. I thought he looked like a monk, and wondered to myself if this was Judas. After a long time, my eyes began to burn so badly, I finally decided that it was worth it to put up with the bad flashes if I could just close my eyes for a while. I began to sob quietly as the flashes of my evil ways rushed in, and I heard a voice. It said, 'If you ask him, maybe he will save you.' I thought to myself, 'How?' The voice said, 'Say it. Say the words, Jesus Christ my savior in heaven, please save me.' I said the words out loud. The voice said, ' Again' and so I said it again, and again, and again. The screaming stopped, and then the flashes stopped. It was silent.  

As I looked up, I saw a man sitting in a giant stone chair.  There was a silver-winged creature next to him who had a helmet with wings on it.  There was a woman on his left. She had some very old men behind her. We were on a platform in space, but the stars were eyes instead. I realized that this was Jesus and the creature on his right was the angel of the lord, and woman on his left was The Blessed Virgin Mary. I can only guess that the old men had to be Abraham, Moses, or one of those important people; maybe the disciples Peter, Paul, or someone. Jesus had a look of disappointment on his face that touched me to my soul and made me feel so ashamed. 

The Angel of the Lord said, 'Tell our lord what brings you here.' I began to explain that I felt that the world was not a fair place and I didn't want to be a part of it anymore. He looked at me as if I was crazy and asked, 'Who told you it was going to be a fair world?' I really didn't understand. The girl that I first met in heaven swooped in and whisked me away to a great hall that was kind of dark. We were at a great doorway. As I asked her where we were, she told me she had something to show me. The door opened and a bunch of people came out. I saw a group a priest that I recognized from another religious experience I had had at Versailles when I was a child. I had a brief flashback of that experience. As the room emptied, we went in. 

It was dark and there was a great roundtable with a three-dimensional display in the middle of the universe. There was an old man.  As she brought me to him, he ask, 'And why are you here?' The girl explained that I felt that life had treated me badly and thought it was unfair. He thought this was preposterous that I would think such a thing, and in short began to explain that the globe on the table was the universe and that all the stars had meanings and their arrangements had meanings.  When people are born, the arrangement of the stars in the universe had an effect on them and the life that they would lead. He explained that heaven was a safe place where souls are protected and taken care of by the lord.  Everyone has their own status, and that status is determined by what you have done and learned in the material worlds. He explained that people are rarely happy with where they are for long and that they are always longing to move forward. The souls in heaven are no different. He explained that I came to this council begging to be born into the material world. He explained that I presented them with a very well thought-out case, and that I employed the help of many wise people to determine exactly where and when I was to be born and who I would be born to. I chose my own name for a very distinct reason, and if there is anybody to blame for the life I'm living, it is myself. He explained that I entered into a contract with the creator and I must live up to that contract or face the consequences. He ended the whole speech telling me that I knew what I was getting into, I knew the risks and complications, and that I had been warned.  My only choice was to go back and finish what I started. I didn't get a word in edgewise.  For me, at 19 years of age, this didn't really go over very well. I thought he was just a mean old man with a bad attitude, especially since he ran us out of the room and slammed the door on us. 

I found myself back on the platform before Jesus.  The Blessed Mother asked me what I thought of what I learned. I told her I thought it wasn't right that I had to put up with people hurting me, that Jesus was suppose to protect me, and if I was going to go back that I wanted him to make it right. He looked at me and said, 'My son, I can not cause pain to another, I can only heal those who are broken.'  With the arrogance of youth, I tried to pull the old 'I want to talk to the manager' routine and demanded to talk to God. The Blessed Mother said, 'You can not 'see' God.'  Jesus spoke up and said, 'No one can see God.' The blessed mother was angry and told me to kneel before this great healer and ask forgiveness. I knelt down.  I could feel the great disappointment and astonishment at my arrogance. I began to weep, and Jesus ask, 'Do you know why I saved you from the pit of purgatory?' I replied, 'No'. He said, 'Remember the old man, the one you thought was Judas? This showed me that you believe, you truly believe.' I realized at that moment that Jesus was with me, and had been with me the whole time.  He was always with me, throughout everything that has happened. And my belief means way more than I had ever realized. He saw something in me that even I did not see. I began to weep so badly that I was frozen there on the floor with my head in my hands and crying uncontrollably. 

The Blessed Mother ordered me to come forward and kiss his feet. It was like trying to crawl with a block of concrete on my back. If you could measure it in time, it took me a whole five minutes to crawl five feet. When I got to his feet, I saw that they were dirty and well worn, like a person that had never worn shoes and had walked everywhere they went their whole life. I would have rather kissed a baboon's ass than these feet, with the yellow split toenails. But I did kiss them.  

After I did, I was could feel myself being pulled back to the material world, and I cried out that I wanted to stay.  Jesus said, 'Give me a chance, give me a chance to make it right in the end.' I thought, 'Great.  In the end.  That means it will be all screwed up until I die.  In the end, when will that be?' I think it was the mother Mary who then gave me a message, it was a very compressed message that had words, pictures, and emotions rolled up in one. I was shown a vision of future events that have mostly come true. These were things no one could have predicted. As I entered the tunnel to return, I saw a vision of a circle with an eye in the middle, and as it turned I could see scenes around it like a clock of people and places all moving at once.  I realized that this was God. And I had been allowed by him, to see him in the only way I could understand. It was a great comfort to be given that image, even though Jesus himself said I could not see God. The feeling I had when I realized that Jesus was there with me all along, I now had been given that feeling from God himself. And I went peacefully.  

As I entered my body again, I could feel my heart beat.  I felt the pain, the warmth, and the uncomfortable feeling of having laid in one spot for a long time. I could not respond in any way and was in a comma for three day after. I occupied my mind by going over the events again and again because I felt like I might forget. At one time, I felt a warm hand in mine and I struggled to open my eyes to see who it was. I saw a young girl with long brown hair standing next to my bed and holding my hand. When I woke up I asked the nurse who she was and where did she go. She look so surprised when I described her, but then explained that there was no young girls in the intensive care unit and no one had been allowed beyond the glass in three days. The only people had been the same four old ladies in 12 hour shifts and they had all worked there for years. I thought this might be a dream, but she explained to me that I had died for six minutes and I had been in the intensive care unit for three days.

=========================

On Tue, 6/28/16, Jeffrey Long, M.D. <nderf@nderf.org> wrote:



Thanks for sharing your remarkable near-death experience with nderf.org! 



I could ask all sorts of questions about your incredible NDE, but will ask only one question. In what you shared you say: I saw a man in a robe about 40yrs old with a trimmed beard and a balding head. I thought he looked like a monk, and wondered to myself if this was Judas… Jesus asked, 'Do you know why I saved you from the pit of purgatory?' I replied, 'No'. He said, 'Remember the old man, the one you thought was Judas? This showed me that you believe, you truly believe.'



Any further comments that you have on this would be greatly appreciated! Do you have an idea about what Jesus meant when he said ‘This showed me that you believe, you truly believe.’ Believe what? Do you have a sense of what would have happened if you had not believed? Thanks again for sharing one of the most remarkable NDEs ever shared with NDERF! 



Kindest regards, 



Jeffrey Long, MD

============================

Reply from Jeffrey C -

In this event, I was confused at the time because I didn't understand how the all-seeing, all-knowing, Lord-of-this-world could not know already that I believed (First Clue). I think he saw a small pinhole ray of light inside a very dark soul. I wasn't talking to him, trying to convince him that I believed. I was having what I thought was a private thought. He gathered his proof not from my words but as a voyeur (Second Clue). He wanted to show me that he was there in my private thoughts. My question at the time, if he can see my private thoughts then how did he not know? (Solution)The answer is he did know. His point was that he wanted to see it. In short, I don't think there was an ultimatum. With age, I understand why God is viewed as a father. So with a father's perspective in mind, I believe it's best described by the saying: When your kids are teens, you know they love you. You just wish they would show it now and again. If God wants me to believe, he will make me. There are no atheist in foxholes. He will drive me to the point of suicide,  snatch me up into his living room, make a believer out of me, and then send me back. There is no discussion of 'if you believe this' or 'if you don't that.' I could not deny a hurricane when it is at my back door. The most profound thing God has ever told me is a long story but in his words, 'Sometimes you have to let people fail on their own.' Sometimes you can give advice, warn a person, beg and plead with them, but this only causes resentment. The only way they are going to learn or to realize that you only have their best interest in mind, is to let them fai.  Then be there to help pick up the pieces.   There were no 'I told you so's.'

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1989

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    Suicide attempt       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   I was dead, woke up to a doctor doing CPR on me.  I saw my body lying next to me.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I saw the doctor working on me, the nurses trying to get equipment into the room, and my mother with arms folded watching. I saw my mom worrying about me at work. I saw more but don't recall.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I didn't feel the normal weaknesses of the human body. I could feel others; I didn't feel forgetful in any way.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I woke up dead and lying on the table

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The same. I've gone over it thousands of times because of all the things that were foretold that have come true, and all the lessons I have learned over the years that I did not grasp at the time.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I didn't notice any difference.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     There was a column of light like a spotlight at a 45-degree angle. When I entered, it was a swirl of colors and flowing bright liquid. It was like riding a roller coaster through a light show. I had my eyes closed most of the time because it was overwhelming and made me feel a little sick. (Interesting point.) Just before entering the light, a great fear overwhelmed me like when I was a kid about to go into the principal's office. I had a feeling that judgment was on the other side, as if a group was looking at me in judgment. Best I can explain.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I didn't see any relatives or people I met in life, but there were people who knew me. I felt like I knew them and they were familiar. I saw some priests, one specifically I met as a child at Versailles.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The lights in the tunnel. In the beginning as I entered, I saw light. It was a brightly lit world. As the door opened into the room I was in, I saw the same bright light. The rest of the time, it was dark, and at times appeared like space. Near the end, I realized that what I thought was stars were actually eyes.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

The experience included:       Hellish imagery

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Almost all of them, it seems.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     After the experience, I was put into a psych ward. It seemed that the understanding and kind nature of the girl who guided me had become a part of me and as the doctor said, 'I helped more people in one week than she had in a year.' I became more empathetic and aware of peoples...Problems? Hard to explain I guess.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Flashbacks of things I had done that were good, bad. All things I had done. I was also put into the shoes of those I did them to and felt the way they felt as it was happening.

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     I was given a message from Mary about my future. Among other things, emotions, scenes, that would start when I broke my back. In fact all of which came true. Emotions I didn't understand came to be and I suddenly after 20, or more years, understood them. I broke my back and all the things mentioned have come true at the exact age I was told I would be. I was also given flashes of things that would be, in the beginning when I had the Scrooge event happen.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     As I walked to a cloud wall to try and breakthrough, I was told I would regret it.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Do not know   I believed in God and Jesus, But was not living a Christian life and was truly unaware of it's real existence.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have a relationship with God and his servants. I realize 'Free Will' is as much a curse as a gift. It's best described: as if, we are like children. When in heaven we are indoors and safe. Eventually we beg to go outside. What happens when we are outside is of our own doing. It's best to stay in your own yard.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   I see so many truly disturbing problems with organized religions that I define my religion only by my relationship with God and Jesus and the servants of the Lord.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I believed in God and Jesus, but I didn't know about all the rest.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I was an alcoholic drug dealer that had become a thug. I went on to work for a nationwide security company, then on to installing security systems and cameras, then on to bigger and more.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   The communications where by thought, so I had trouble, at times, knowing who was speaking to me.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   Jesus, Mary, and a few I was not introduced to, but felt their connection to Jesus.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I was told by the old man in the council room that we live and experience as many lives as we can to gain experience.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     Either I don't understand the question, or I didn't understand the information as it was given. The concept of Unity/oneness was not known or understood by me at 19.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I was told that no one can 'See' God. At the very end of the experience, I was shown an image of God that I understood to be God and understood it was a custom image made for me in a way I would understand. God definitely exists.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I've had many very significant spiritual experiences. Religions experiences. I've even been spoken to from a higher being, maybe God. I know there is a purpose and am being fed knowledge on a need to know basis, but some things were answered in a conversation because I was told, 'I have questions but I do not question'.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     The old man in the council room told me that we live and experience as many lives as we can to gain experience so that we may come closer to God. Like a child growing up so he can have an adult relationship with his father.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     It was explained to me that we never die; we just transition through experiences to come closer to God. 'Created in his image' seems to mean to live and experience as many lives as God.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     I was shown that perspective is relevant. Watching an accident on TV and living through an accident are an example. Life here is real to us, but in the next life, it will be no different from a memory of a movie.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     I was made to understand, by the old councilman, that life's challenges are what give us experience and sometimes things are thrown in our way to change the timing of events. A flat tire on the freeway may seem like a problem but may have helped you avoid an accident down the road.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Hard to explain. A heightened intuition. For a brief time, a few years ago, an extreme ability to connect psychically, until I asked God to please make it stop. A lot like getting glasses when you didn't even know you needed them.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am not as gullible as I was. I find it hard to have a real significant relationship with people who are not headed to the reality at which I am currently. In short, I can more easily see peoples' motives and have trouble being friends with anyone whose motives are not pure.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Even though the experience is very long in my description there are some parts left out, and some parts I'm sure I've forgotten because I had to go over it in my head hundreds of times to be sure I would not forget it. When I reentered my body I felt very foggy compared to when I was not in my body.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.    I don't remember the exact dates of it all, and I don't remember much about the months leading up to the event.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I like to say intuition that is a bit more accurate. For a brief time, a few years ago, an incredible ability to directly connect to people from anywhere. I was overwhelmed and begged for it to stop and it did.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        As the years go by, more and more of it becomes significant until a few years ago.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    20 years

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew it was real because it was more vivid than any dream. I can control what happens in my dreams. There were no over the top wild experiences or information to indicate fantasy. I was able to consciously reason as an ΓÇÿawake' person. I was cold and did not wake up. At some points, I was not cold when I was before Jesus or in the council room. Finally, certain information was given to me about the events directly after the event, and years later, and years after that, that all came true to confirm the reality of it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Many markers of events were given to me that I could not have known or predicted that have all come true along the way. It seems that everything that happened was so perfectly coordinated to affect me for the rest of my life. No dream or illusion could have given me such a puzzle that puts itself together with each year that goes by and still form such a perfect picture. You see the picture had to be formed before the puzzle was cut into pieces. Each piece of it was designed to be found and placed right, when it was needed and relevant. That is significant.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       As I look back on it, I see my experience to be very similar to the story of Scrooge: The same type of content and overall message. It would seem to be relevant to ask, 'What do you think was the overall message or purpose of your experience?'      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jeffrey_c_nde_8024.html