{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jeffery_o_nde.html","mytitle":"Jeffery O NDE 6660","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jeffery O NDE 6660  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jeffery O NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3304 Jeffery O NDE 6660  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

I Knew Their Hearts: The Amazing True Story of a Journey Beyond the Veil to Learn the Silent Language of the Heart&nbsp; Check it out at:&nbsp; Click Here

  				    					I left my body at the scene of the accident and visited another realm of light, where I was told by my own deceased wife that I must return to my oldest son who also survived the accident. As I returned to my body, I had profound experiences with the living people I encountered. All judgment was lost as I saw others for who they really are through God's eyes. 

I re-entered my body but barely survived the following 5 months and 18 major surgeries with one foot in this realm and one in the next. During that time I was gaining profound insights, had visitations and learned new truth. 

I had other visits to the other side during that time and experienced profound dreams and visions during my nearly yearlong ordeal. I gained deep spiritual insights. I learned to love at a very deep level and experienced the unconditional love of God in a way that revealed, not only the divinity in myself, but in all of us as God's children.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'March 31, 1997'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was in a terrible auto accident which crushed both my legs, the left being amputated above the knee. My ribs were crushed, my lungs collapsed, my hip crushed, right arm nearly severed and the seat belt cut through my mid-section, rupturing my intestines. Most devastating however was the death of my wife and youngest son in the accident. The whole family was in the car on a family vacation.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I encountered all the people in the hospital and finally found my body and stood, fully conscious, outside of it.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   If I have 5 senses here, there I had 50. It was super-real! Ever since, this realm has felt like a strange, foggy dream. That was real, this is a dense illusion.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was actually out of the body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No   There was no concept of time at all. It simply did not exist.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     During the experience I could truly see in a way indescribable. However it was far deeper than what I saw - it was the depth of what I felt.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was beyond the senses of my ears. I felt every sound and word. I literally experienced the vibration of it all. In fact there were very few words or hearing, only intense knowing.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I had experiences with my wife and young son who were killed in the same accident that nearly took my life.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I was surrounded by a tangible light, so thick I could feel it. It was pure, unconditional love.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was HOME! I had come from there and had actually ALWAYS been there. Without beginning or end, I was as eternal as the universe itself. I was ALL OF IT and yet still simply, perfectly me.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt vast, deep and profound emotions. They were very similar to the emotions I feel here in this realm but they were intensified.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I was a part of ALL OF IT. I was as eternal as the divine Creator I stood with. I had actually taken part in creating my own life experience to learn what I wanted to come to earth to get. Truth, knowledge, light and love flowed through me in a way that I was literally a part of it. I was in God and He was in me. We were ONE. I was at one with every soul. We were knit together as beautiful parts of the perfect whole.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I made the choice to return. My oldest son was still in the wrecked car. I knew he was alive and OK. I chose to come back to him. It was not my time.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Mormon   Active Mormon, serving as Elder's Quorum President in my local congregation (Ward)

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I no longer judge as harshly. I'm no longer interested in being right. I'm far more interested in truth than in religion. I know that love is all there is and that God loves ALL of his children deeply and equally. There are no stepchildren in the family of God. We are all divine.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Mormon   Still very active in my church, however far more interested in pure truth than in religion.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I grew up believing that God would judge me and that He was testing me in some way. I experienced that He loves me unconditionally and makes no judgments at all. He simply loves me enough to let me create my own experience and learn what I cane here to learn from it. That what I think is bad might actually be a wonderful gift and opportunity. I learned that we are a part of God and even divine ourselves in this whole perfect process. Nothing is out of order in the universe except for us, and even that is for our own progression and growth.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Less judgment, more love.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I encountered what I call God, my creator and Father. I also had experiences with my wife and young son who were killed in the same accident that nearly took my life.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   I experienced Jesus and witnessed first hand some of the events of his earthly life.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I was eternal. I had always existed.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     We are all One and we are in actuality One with God. Everything is in perfect order.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I experienced what I call God. He was with me. I knew Him.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I saw many things about my personal future and life which I am not at liberty to share.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     We are simply here to learn. And we learn by experience. We often experience what we are not that we might finally embrace who we truly are.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     We definitely live on - eternally. There is NO death. Simply a passing or a return to home.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     I experienced no judgement. Only love. I learned that all my judgments were self imposed. God knew me perfectly. He wasn't testing me or proving me, He knew me already, it was only I that did not know myself.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     Yes. I saw that my darkest times were my greatest teachers. They are not a curse but a blessing. They assisted me to learn what I came here to gain.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love is all there is. Love will overcome everything. There is only love and fear and fear is simply the absence of love. In the end there is only love and it is wonderful.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     After my experience TRUTH was far more important to me than religion. I no longer judged others. I had deeper compassion and love for my fellow beings here. I lost any fear of death or God. I felt more connected to home and realized how close angels actually are, how loved we are and how perfect the plan is for each of us no matter what path we walk. I realized what a gift my body actually is. That it is my sacred temple and that deep within my heart is my own holy of holies where I already have all my own answers.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes Closer, deeper, more loving. I feel the souls of others, even strangers.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There are no words, in any language, to articulate what I experienced but I have done the best I know how in my book.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   It has been 15 years and yet I remember the experience as if it were yesterday.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I see others and have profound, vivid dreams now. I see symbols in cultures and ceremonies that reveal truths which were shrouded before.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The entire experience is significant, but most dramatic was the way I see others, the way I see God and the way I see myself.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It took almost 7 years to actually start sharing it openly and it took 14 years before I published a book of my experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had read a few things but had no vast or in depth understanding of it.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     There was such a lot of trauma, both emotional and physical, that it took me a while to really digest it all.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It is real to me and that is all that matters.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I attended Impact Training in Draper, Utah and had spiritual experiences that felt akin to what I had experienced out of the body.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I know that there is truly a loving God that is aware of each and every one of us. Our lives matter and the way we treat each other is of great importance.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       THANK YOU!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jeffery_o_nde.html