{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jeffery_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Jeffery M NDE 7372","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jeffery M NDE 7372  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jeffery M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3750 Jeffery M NDE 7372  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was riding dirt-bikes and we went home because of a storm approaching. When I got home I kicked off my muddy riding boots when I saw a guy-wire from my ham radio antenna, break loose from the wind. When I grabbed the antenna mast to prop it up with a four by four it came in contact with the power line.  All I remember is trying to get free of the mast pipe but then I was lying on the ground.

I thought that I was okay, because I did not have any pain. I remember trying to talk to a family member but they did not hear me. I somehow realized they could not hear me so I thought about getting closer to their ear and trying again, and realized that I was instantly already by their ear. I remember going in front of the house and counting how many emergency vehicles arrived. Counting the cars, pickups and fire trucks and police there were all together: 15. I remember seeing all the priests from the Catholic high school across the street all standing together in the side yard out of the way of the firemen. 

I did not realize I was gone and out of my body   until I was revived and sitting in a chair later, behind the house and had time to think about the episode. I was revived by paramedics. My hands and feet looked like burnt bacon for a long time.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1975 or 1976

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident.  Other: I was electrocuted with 13,500 volts three phase 60 cycle high power lines.  I was electrocuted when coming in contact with overhead power lines carrying 13,500 volts.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Time was not experienced. Consciousness was the same the entire time of the event. Everything seemed like it always did except when I traveled I was instantly where ever I thought about going to instead of taking the time to walk and no one could hear me talk to them or even act like the could see me.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I did not experience any time. So much happened and I did not think about the time passing.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything looked the same as it always does.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Everything looked the same as it always does.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was overly concerned about the fire that I inadvertently started.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     Yes, things were becoming clear and make sense until I was revived. Like my rationalizing how I was going to be able to get up and holler into a family member’s ear, so that they could hear me and I suddenly realized they would not hear me and I was instantly transported to wherever I thought about going.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Do not know

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I do not care what any one says, there is an afterlife.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     I think that all mystical information was suppressed from my minds eye when I was revived.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I cannot explain?

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain     I have had De Jah Vue experiences.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     My thinking and identity of self was unchanged as if nothing happened.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life     Slight changes in my life. I had a problem keeping my thoughts to myself for years after this accident. I would project thoughts mentally. Not always a good thing. I could do unexplainable things.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   This is something that can not be forgotten.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Telekinesis is the term I think. I also could muster some extra strength when circumstances called for it.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I am sure of an afterlife.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    About a year. Some believe. It is very frustrating when people do not believe me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was flabbergasted when I realized what had happened and saw on TV that others have had similar experiences. It relaxed me when I saw that others have had these experiences.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I can still remember the experience like it was yesterday.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jeffery_m_nde.html