{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jeffer_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Jeffer S NDE 20542","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jeffer S NDE 20542  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jeffer S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						495  Jeffer S NDE  20542  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I felt a couple of jolts through my body as if I was being shocked. After the shock had disappeared, I looked down toward earth to find that the dentist was still trying to take out my wisdom teeth.


After looking down, I couldn't help but go to houses of family members. Some of them were drinking and some were sitting down chatting or watching television. As I drifted up further to this white light, I heard a voice calling me. This voice was peaceful and heartwarming. As I was about to go further into this light, I was approached by a man dressed in white with his hair down to his shoulders.


He showed me the sky and said, ‘Son, this is what you've been doing with your life. I am quite pleased and will reward you with pleasurable eternal life for the wrongs that have been put against you.’ This man showed me a time in my life where he saw it was the lowest, when I lost my twin brother to suicide.  He also showed me a meadow that was filled with people going across a river. A peaceful river. Those who were thirsty drank of it.


This man put my brother's hand in mine then told him to bring me back. I felt a big swoosh and was struggling to get back into my body. I saw doctors and nurses using all their might and will to try to get me back. After a half an hour of trying, they got me back and stabilized.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    October 2003

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Surgery-related  Getting my wisdom teeth removed and some other gum surgery  Clinical death I was under anesthesiaI was in the out of body state for thirty minutes. They had to shock me back.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I felt at peace. I was suffering clinical death for a half an hour.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      It was nil.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    One big swoosh.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     I found a man dressed in white. Birds were chirping. I saw a great big waterfall before entering back into my body.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Deceased family members and friends.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   The light was peaceful, bright, and made me feel worry free.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      A mixture of happiness and sadness.

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     In their homes, seventy five miles away.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was told to return to my body by my great grandmother. It was not time to go home yet.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I lowered the level of arguments with family members. I had a positive outlook on life after the death of my twin brother, and I was more loving towards the people that despised me.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The worst was that I had to return. I felt people trying to hold me back. It felt awful. I heard people crying as I was descending to my body.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    No

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jeffer_s_nde.html