{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jeff_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Jeff S NDE 6936\/3616","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jeff S NDE 6936/3616  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jeff S NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1628 Jeff S NDE 6936/3616  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description 6936  					</p>  					I have had three near death experiences in my life.

The first one when I was born. I wasn't expected to live for more than two weeks. I was a blue baby. My lungs weren't developed fully.

The second one happened when I was around six or seven. I was very sick and was pulled out of my body for a short period of time so that the body could be adjusted.

The Third happened when I was twenty five back in 1985.

That one was different. I unconsciously talked Dale, my work partner into not going down into a 12 ft. trench. Normally we would trade off. One stayed above ground and the other went below ground. Not today.

I was a water well tech up north in the cold country. Our job was to set the pump down the well after the drilling team was done running the waterline and AC down a trench and into the buildings to bring forth water. It was a dangerous job but we didn't think about that too much. I had been on the job for about a year and a half when it happened.

A month before it happened I started to have these weird dreams. It was like rehearsing for a play. I never felt or had any fear about it. They were about what I needed to do in a cave in. It went on for a week until I said 'enough.' Then they stopped. I never saw how it would end. And over time, I forgot about it.

Then the day came. It started out like any other day except Dale was in an uneasy frame of mind. Something clearly was bothering him .I had thought that maybe it was something I said. He just wasn't himself that day. So then we went out to the country to do this deep well commercial project. Well was 1800 ft. deep and the trench was deeper than normal. 12 ft. instead of 8 ft. deep and less than 3 ft. wide. And I stand at 6 ft.

Dale was really agitated at this point and short with me. We looked the job over and got to work. As I was gathering up the tools and hardware, Dale grabbed the hip waders due to the amount of water and slush from the snow melting down in the bottom of the trench. Was going to be a messy job. I had all the intention of going down in my mind but when I saw him putting on the waders, I told him I would go down. That started and slightly heated argument between us. I could have easier let him go down and I would have gone over the well head and worked above ground. It did cross my mind for a moment. But for some reason I had in my head that I was to go down into the trench. After about fifteen minutes of arguing with him, he finally threw them off and said 'Fine!' I felt pleased about it.

I met him over at the well head and we made the connection between the well head and the waterline. After that he started doing what he needed to do and I started walking the soft copper wire down the trench. I had probably had gotten twenty to thirty feet away from the well head hunched over when I looked up and saw the side wall starting to peel away.

This is where the dream kicked in. I let the copper go, stood straight up against the opposite wall, crossed my arms over my chest, then I yelled 'Dale!' and took a deep breath. I then closed my eyes.

Later Dale would tell me that he heard me and yelled back 'What?!' He looked up and saw that I was gone. About a dump truck's worth of heavy wet shale came down on me.

As I was being crushed to death, I remember asking myself if I was going to die. An answer came back saying 'yes.' Then I said I didn't want to die. The voice said ô you're going too. I felt myself slowly losing the battle as I tried to find an alternative to the situation I was in. And at one point, the pain was so strong that I screamed out my last breath into the darkness that had covered me. I was done. All hope was lost. I gave up the fight.

At this point, I must have popped out of my body and into the darkness that was around me but still next to my body. There was no pain at this point. I remember it being so dark and so lonely. Absolute void.

I wondered if this was how the end played out and I would just fade away into nothing or if there was something more beyond this state I was in. I screamed in my head out into the pitch blackness that had engulfed me 'Well then! When?' Then an arm came around my hunched over body and pulled me out. Except now, we were moving up and I was no longer in my body feeling lighter and free. I thought about my family and then I heard 'They will be fine.' Fine, I thought.

As we were moving, I remember seeing parts of my life but I didn't care about those things. I knew my life and just acknowledge it as happening. I had no clue to what was happening to me or where I was going.

We stopped so I could listen to how the universe sounded as it expanded. Like a deep hum all around me. Everything was so alive all around me and I felt I was part of everything and everything was a part of me. We were one. I now understood how we were all connected to each other. All this knowledge was opening up in me. So beautiful. So endless. Sounds I have never heard before. Colors so intense and new, unlike anything I have ever seen.

I remember seeing myself as this transparent being of pure light. And when we communicated our whole being would flash different colors depending on our response. I realized then there was nothing I could hide from anyone.

So much love. Pure divine love around everything everywhere. I was totally engulfed in it. I saw things I can't even begin to describe. The awe factor was way off the charts.

I saw a handsome young man who later was identified as my grandfather. I was shown a beautiful city that glowed a golden like aura. I felt like I was truly home again. This was very familiar to me.

Then I was taken even higher.  In a flash, I was on a floor in a vast room. There were these vast steps in front of me and my eyes slowly followed them up until I saw what was above me. I immediately hit the floor face down saying 'I am not worthy to be here. I should not be here' over and over again.

I was before the Holy Trinity. I couldn't look at it. It was so blindingly bright. In a flash, the Christ told me to stand up and I did. He then pulled me into himself and I was gone.

When I came to, I was being cradled in this huge energy like ball that felt endless and was truly feminine in nature. Like the best-est mom in all the universe. I knew that it was the Holy Spirit. The female aspect of the G-D. The Mother of the Universe. She assured me and rocked me to sleep.

I was then placed back into my body. When I opened my eyes, I saw and felt the sunshine on me. I was still in that wonderful connection. The sky was an intense blue and the clouds so white and beautiful. Then I turned my heard and saw Dale crying and digging me out by hand. He had dug not straight down but from the inside of the trench. Inward. I was in a fetus position. I told him that I was fine and that everything was so wonderful. But I couldn't hear him and he wasn't hearing me. I being to wonder what the problem was and realized I was breathing. I was trying to talk to him in thought form and it wasn't working. I then tried to remember the sensation of what it was like to breath.

I started to panic. 'In/out' I thought over and over again until it happened. When I took that first breath, I was then seated in my body and this extreme pain hit me like a train. I could feel my organs dying and what felt like ribs through my lungs and internal bleeding etc. I took one arm and wrapped it around my upper chest in hopes to try to keep things in place. Dale and someone else just stared at me in shock. Wide eyed they were. Speechless. I said get me the hell out of here. Nothing. So I mustered up enough strength to pull myself out and climbed up out of the trench with them screaming and me not to move.

I was so happy to be up and out. I did a quick inventory of myself and lit up a cigarette.  I figured if I was going to die again, I was going to have that last smoke. (I did quit eventually)

My insides were pushed up like a tube of toothpaste. My neck now has a reverse of the cervical spine with a compound fracture at C6. All the ligaments down my back were heavily damaged.

I had choice here. Even though I was taught what to do. I had choice. I gave up my life so that another could live. The greatest gift a person could ever give to another. That gets you to the front of the line with a clean slate. That is why I went before the Holy Trinity.

I still have that connection and sometime go back in meditation. The Kingdom of Heaven is truly within each and every one of us. And we can tap into this any time we need to. I continue to grow closer to the spirit within me each day. Learning and experiencing wonderful things.

At first I thought if anyone understood what I just went through, it would be the church. Not. I now realize what the church can teach and what it cannot teach. There are two paths. And this kind of experience drops you right on that less traveled one. It is a lonely path. You go with what you know.

What I did in the beginning of my journey was to test the 'seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you.' It does work. There are many paths to God. Pick one and go with it. And on the way don't forget to do those random acts of kindness. If 1/5 of the world awoke and did this, the whole planet would shift.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  4/16/1985

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  Healthy. Job related accident  Other Healthy. Job related accident  I was in a cave-in that buried me alive 12 ft. underground. The amount of dirt was equal to a dump truck. Ton +1/2.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   It still took better than twenty years to fully understand what, why, and how.  It took having something coming to my life as a wife that had a similar deep and profound experience to help and guide me through it. One most peel one's onion (ego) to get to the core (true self)  Each day I make that connection with God in my morning/evening prayers and meditations. Spirit also comes into me daily. I love it. Can't live without it.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was before the Holy Trinity. I understood everything. I understood what got me there even when I felt I wasn't worthy to be there. I understand how we are connected to each other and to everything thing living on this planet and the universe as a whole. I understand how we are connected to God and Him to us. I understand how we were never disconnected with our Creator.....Before the NDE, I knew things but never made the connection due to lack of support in a dysfunctional family environment.    Soulmate relationship story:  https://www.nderf.org/NDERF/Soulmates/peggy_jeff_smr.htm

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no sense of time there. Everything happened all at once.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Like being totally awake on all levels now than before.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I hear the internal voice better now than I did before. It is more frequent now than it was before. Probably because of doubt.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Same as all the other stories from other NDEs.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   No words can even come close to describing this. I tried in my story but it doesn't really do it justice.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Saw the entire universe and listened to it expand.  Saw a heavenly city glowing a wonderful light/Aura was placed in the court of the King.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Absolute Pure Divine Love that goes beyond words.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Everything about everything.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I know that if a 1/5th of the world truly awoke to a pleasant experience like this and or experience God's Love, the whole world would shift into a higher dimension/state of consciousness.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Agnostic   I sort of felt and or hoped something bigger than me existed. But wasn't sure.  Even after having 2 child NDE at a young age. I knew my past lives and had done hands on healing without understanding what I was doing. Like having your higher self come found in an emergency situation.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     It had too. It is apart of me. Not the organized religion. They don't get it.  The one that is in my heart and all around me. The Truth!!

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   I understand what the church can teach and what it cannot teach. Once you his that path that is less traveled, you are on your own. All you have is what is in your heart to guide you.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Since I had already had two child NDE's I was sort of aware of things. But then the programming from a dysfunctional family always went against the grain and caused turmoil.  Having the 3rd experience started the long term awakening process that would take of twenty years to process bringing me to a point of great awareness of what the truth was. At least for me.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Time to wake the people of this planet up. Talk about the living dead.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   My guardian angel who happens to be an Angel of the Presence.  Saw the Holy Trinity.  Was absorbed into the Christ.  Was cradled by the Holy Spirit.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   Grandfather  Jesus Christ

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I have always be aware of other lives I have had. Always a warrior fight in the name of Christ. And as the 3rd and last Grail King.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Hard to explain. But you are aware of how connected you are to everything here and there.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I went before the Holy Trinity. The are one and the same with a slight difference.  Each with a unique characteristic/aspect.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Still working on becoming that.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Earth is school. Lessons need to be learned. Ego is a dis-tractor.  Learning to love and forgive ones self is a big one. Learning to love and forgive others is a big one. Doing random acts of kindness everyday is a big one. Learn to come out of your box a

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Absolutely. Life is a continuous experience until we reach a "Perfect state of being. Christ consciousness.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     Be kind to yourself and to others.    Be the beacon of light for those stuck in the darkness.    Be child-like

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     Life is not fair. Never was meant to be.    We need to not get caught up in the ways of the world or it's material. We are are just passing through.    We are co-creators. We can create something from something where God creates something from nothing.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Not compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love is what it's all about. Love can move mountains. Love can cure dis-ease. Love can change an entire world beyond the imagination.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Finding some sort of support with this was impossible. Telling folks about it scared them away. Finding that churches don't even believe or know what to do with you was sad. Family thinking you were nuts didn't help.  After a while, I learned to keep my mouth shut and hope it just goes away. But it never does. It is always there. Tugging at you.  It took 8 long years before the universe sent someone to be in my life that had equal to better understanding of all things with her NDE that finally helped me to fully awaken.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes First wife left.  2nd wife was God sent. She too is an NDEr.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   At first it was. Not so much anymore. Even better now.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   Each time we NDEr's think/write our experiences. We re-live them. We see things that we forgot or things that are much clearly then they were in the past or last time we wrote them out.    It is also important not to get stuck in the experience. The NDE is a wake-up call. We need to figure out what that wake-call means to each of us. It is a journey.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Gifts of healing. Gift of being able to bring forward in me the Holy Spirit to the point that others experienced it as well. Gift of wisdom and knowledge, which is still on going. Gift of courage and strength. Gift of clarity and vision.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The Kingdom of Heaven is within. So is the Holy Trinity. The doorway is through our heart. The Sacred Heart.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Finding some sort of support with this was impossible. Telling folks about it scared them away. Finding that churches don't even believe or know what to do with you was sad. Family thinking you were nuts didn't help.  After a while, I learned to keep my mouth shut and hope it just goes away. But it never does. It is always there. Tugging at you.  It took eight long years before the universe sent someone to be in my life that had equal to better understanding of all things with her NDE that finally helped me to fully awaken.  It has been much better after I turned fifty. I am on in with this. I can see how shallow most people are and will challenge them with this to seek out their own truth.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had two as a child and had read in my younger youth in Reader Digest about a logger who had one. I thought it odd but it did plant a seed in me. I never forgot it.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I sort of remembered it then it went away and I forgot about it for about two years. Then my head opened up and rattled my reality all over the place.  First marriage dissolved shortly after that. Was too much for her.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Was great to fully know and understand that there was more to life than this.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Sort of.....  Went to a spiritual retreat for three days. On the last day, the Holy Spirit was invoked. I was and also experienced the Holy Spirit piercing folks with rays of light. I watch people crash to their knees in tears as well as myself. They called it "Mountain Top" experience.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Maybe in 5-10 years    

    Experience Description 3616  					</p>  					I have had three near death experiences in my life.

The first one when I was born. I wasn't expected to live for more than two weeks. I was a blue baby, as lungs weren't developed fully).

The second one happened when I was around six or seven. I was very sick and was pulled out of my body for a short period of time so that the body could be adjusted.

The third happened back in 1985, when I was twenty five years old. This one was different. I subconsciously talked Dale, my work partner, into not going down into a 12 ft. trench. Normally we would trade off, one stayed above ground and the other went below ground, but not today.

I was a Water Well Technician up north in the cold country. My job was to set the pump down the well after the drilling team was done, and run the waterline and AC down a trench and into the buildings to bring forth water. It was a dangerous job but we didn't think about that too much. I had been on the job for about a year and a half when it happened.

A month before it happened I started to have these weird dreams. It was like rehearsing for a play. I never felt or had any fear about it. They were about what I needed to do in a cave in. It went on for a week until I said 'enough', then they stopped. I never saw how it would end and over time, I forgot about it.

Then the day came. It started out like any other day, except Dale was in an uneasy frame of mind. Something clearly was bothering him and I thought that maybe it was something I had said. He just wasn't himself that day. We went out to the country to do this deep well commercial project. The well was 1,800 ft. deep and the trench was deeper than normal - 12 ft. instead of 8 ft. deep, and less than 3 ft. wide. I stand at 6 ft. Dale was really agitated at this point, and short with me. We looked the job over and got to work. As I was gathering up the tools and hardware, Dale grabbed the hip waders, due to the amount of water and slush from the snow melting down in the bottom of the trench. It was going to be a messy job. I had all the intention of going down in my mind, and when I saw him putting on the wader I told him so. That started and slightly heated argument between us. I could have easily let him go down and I would have gone over the well head and worked above ground. It did cross my mind for a moment, but for some reason I had it in my head that I was to go down into the trench. After about fifteen minutes of arguing with him, he finally threw the waders off and said 'Fine!' I felt pleased about it. I met him over at the well head and we made the connection between the well head and the waterline. After that he started doing what he needed to do and I started walking the soft copper wire down the trench. I had probably gotten twenty to thirty feet away from the well head hunched over when I looked up and saw the side wall starting to peel away. This is where the dream kicked in. I let the copper go, stood straight up against the opposite wall, crossed my arms over my chest, then I yelled 'Dale!' and took a deep breath. I then closed my eyes.

Later Dale would tell me that he heard me and yelled back 'What!' He looked up and saw that I was gone. About a dump truck, worth of heavy wet shale came down on me. As I was being crushed to death, I remember asking myself if I was going to die. An answer came back saying 'yes'. Then I said I didn't want to die. The voice said 'you're going to'. I felt myself slowly losing the battle as I tried to find an alternative to the situation I was in. At one point, the pain was so strong that I screamed out my last breath into the darkness that had covered me. I was done. All hope was lost. I gave up the fight.

At this point, I must have popped out of my body and into the darkness that was around me but still next to my body. There was no pain at this point. I remember it being so dark and so lonely. It was an absolute void. I wondered if this was how the end played out and I would just fade away into nothing, or if there was something more beyond this state, I was in. I screamed in my head out into the pitch blackness that had engulfed me 'Well then! When!' Then an arm came around my hunched over body and pulled me out. Except now, we were moving up and I was no longer in my body, feeling lighter and free. I thought about my family and then I heard 'They will be fine'.  'Fine', I thought. As we were moving I remember seeing parts of my life, but I didn't care about those things. I knew my life and just acknowledge it. I had no clue to what was happening to me or where I was going. We stopped so I could listen to how the universe sounded as it expanded. A deep hum surrounded me. Everything was so alive all around me and I felt that I was part of everything and everything was a part of me. We were one. I now understood how we were all connected to each other. All this knowledge was opening up in me. It was so beautiful, so endless. I heard sounds I have never heard before. I saw colors so intense and new, unlike anything I have ever seen.

I remember seeing myself as this transparent being of pure light, and when we communicated our whole being would flash different colors depending on our response. I realized then there was nothing I could hide from anyone. There was so much love - pure divine love around everything everywhere. I was totally engulfed in it. I saw things I can't even begin to describe. The awe factor was way off the charts. I saw a handsome young man who later was identified as my grandfather. I was shown a beautiful city that glowed a golden like aura. I felt like I was truly home again. This was very familiar to me.

I was then taken even higher in a flash, and placed on a floor in a vast like room. There were vast steps in front of me and my eyes slowly followed them up until I saw what was above me. I immediately hit the floor face down saying 'I am not worthy to be here. I should not be here' repeatedly. I was before the Holy Trinity. I couldn't look at it. It was so blindingly bright. In a flash, the Christ told me to stand up and I did. He then pulled me into himself and I was gone. When I came to, I was being cradled in this huge energy like ball that felt endless and was truly feminine in nature. Like the best mom in all the universe. I knew that it was the Holy Spirit. The female aspect of the G-D. The Mother of the Universe. She assured me and rocked me to sleep.

I was then placed back into my body. When I opened my eyes, I saw and felt the sunshine on me. I was still in that wonderful connection. The sky was an intense blue and the clouds so white and beautiful. I turned my heard and saw Dale crying and digging me out by hand. He had dug not straight down but from the inside of the trench. Inward. I was in a fetus position. I told him that I was fine and that everything was so wonderful, but I couldn't hear him and he wasn't hearing me. I began to wonder what the problem was and realized I wasn't breathing. I was trying to talk to him in thought form and it wasn't working. I then tried to remember the sensation of what it was like to breath. I started to panic. 'In/out' I thought, over and over again until it happened. When I took that first breath, I was then seated in my body and extreme pain hit me like a train. I could feel my organs dying, what felt like ribs through my lungs and internal bleeding etc. I took one arm and wrapped it around my upper chest in the hope of trying to keep things in place. Dale and someone else just stared at me in shock. They were wide eyed and speechless. I said 'get me the hell out of here'. Nothing. So I mustered up enough strength to pull myself out and climbed up out of the trench with them screaming at me not to move.

I was so happy to be up and out. I did a quick inventory of myself and lit up a cigarette, figuring that if I was going to die again I was going to have that last smoke (I did quit eventually). My insides were pushed up like a tube of toothpaste. My neck now has a reverse of the cervical spine with a compound fracture at C6. All the ligaments down my back were heavily damaged.

I had choice here. Even though I was taught what to do, I had choice. I gave up my life so that another could live- the greatest gift a person could ever give to another. That gets you to the front of the line with a clean slate. That is why I went before the Holy Trinity.

I still have that connection and sometime go back in meditation. The Kingdom of Heaven is truly within each and every one of us, and we can tap into this any time we need to. I continue to grow closer to the spirit within me each day, learning and experiencing wonderful things.

At first I thought if anyone understood what I just went through, it would be the Church. Not. I now realize what the Church can teach and what it cannot teach. There are two paths, and this kind of experience drops you right on that less traveled one. It is a lonely path, one on which you go with what you know. What I did in the beginning of my journey was to test the saying 'seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you'. It does work. There are many paths to God. Pick one and go with it, and on the way don't forget to do those random acts of kindness. If 1/5 of the world awoke and did this the whole planet would shift.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1985

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Accident. Direct head injury  Buried Alive/Cave-in  Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I was in a cave-in that buried me alive 12 ft. underground. The amount of dirt was equal to a dump truck - one and a half tons.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   When I was before the Holy Trinity I understood everything. I understood what got me there even when I felt I wasn't worthy to be there. I understand how we are connected to each other, and to everything thing living on this planet and the universe as a whole. I understand how we are connected to God and Him to us. I understand how we were never disconnected with our Creator. Before the NDE, I knew things, but never made the connection due to lack of support in a dysfunctional family environment.  It still took better than twenty years to fully understand what, why, and how. It took having something coming to my life as a wife who had a similar deep and profound experience to help and guide me through it. One must peel one's onion (ego) to get to the core (true self).  Each day I make that connection with God in my morning/evening prayers and meditations. Spirit also comes into me daily. I love it and can't live without it.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no sense of time there. Everything happened all at once.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Like being totally awake on all levels more now than before.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I hear the internal voice better now than I did before. It is more frequent now than it was before, probably because of doubt.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Same as all the other stories from other NDEs.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My Guardian Angel, who happens to be an Angel of the Presence. I saw the Holy Trinity and was absorbed into the Christ. I was cradled by the Holy Spirit.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   No words can even come close to describing this. I tried in my story but it doesn't really do it justice.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was shown Heaven. I was taken the Great Thrones. I was placed in a giant sphere  of what was pure love before being sent back

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Absolute Pure Divine Love that goes beyond words.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     There was a life review and I acknowledged it. It was what it was when you don't know how to live your live correctly.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I know that if one fifth of the world truly awoke to a pleasant experience like this and/or experienced God's Love, the whole world would shift into a higher dimension/state of consciousness.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   None

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     It had too. It is a part of me. Not the organized religion - they don't get it. The one that is in my heart and all around me. The Truth!! It is time to wake the people of this planet up - talk about the living dead!

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Christian/Episcopal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     It had too. It is a part of me. Not the organized religion - they don't get it. The one that is in my heart and all around me. The Truth!! It is time to wake the people of this planet up - talk about the living dead!

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I understood everything about the universe - everything about everything.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes My first wife left. My second wife was God sent. She too is an NDEr.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   At first it was - not so much anymore and even better now.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Gifts of healing. Gift of being able to bring forward in me the Holy Spirit to the point that others experienced it as well. Gift of wisdom and knowledge, which is still on going. Gift of courage and strength. Gift of clarity and vision.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The Kingdom of Heaven is within. So is the Holy Trinity. The doorway is through our heart. The Sacred Heart.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I had large changes in my life. Finding some sort of support with this was impossible. Telling folks about it scared them away. Finding that churches don't even believe or know what to do with you was sad. Family thinking you were nuts didn't help. After a while, you learn to keep your mouth shut and hope it just goes away, but it never does - it is always there, tugging at you. It took eight long years before the universe sent someone to be in my life that had equal to better understanding of all things with her NDE that finally helped me to fully awaken.  It became much better after I turned fifty. I can see how shallow most people are and will challenge them with this to seek out their own truth.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had two as a child and had read in my younger youth in Reader Digest about a logger who had one. I thought it odd but it did plant a seed in me. I never forgot it.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I sort of remembered it then it went away and I forgot about it for about two years. My head then opened up and rattled my reality all over the place. My first marriage dissolved shortly after that. It was too much for her.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Was great to fully know and understand that there was more to life than this.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Sort of. I went to a spiritual retreat for three days. On the last day, the Holy Spirit was invoked. I was, and also experienced the Holy Spirit piercing folks with rays of light. I watched people crash to their knees in tears as well as myself. They called it 'Mountain Top' experience.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Maybe in 5-10 years.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jeff_s_nde.html