{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jeff_h_ste.html","mytitle":"Jeff H STE 9740","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jeff H STE 9740  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jeff H STE  					  					  						Home  						Classification STE  						5262 Jeff H STE 9740  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    This was no dream. It wasn’t a near death experience. I wasn’t drinking and I don’t do drugs. Nothing like this has happened before or after. I’m not a bible pusher but more spiritual than anything.

  July 17, 11:17 am, 2021

  I’ve been self-employed for many years and work in a home office. This day was not treating me well. Feeling overwhelmed I looked up and said, 'I could use a little help here, please help me. Any assistance would be appreciated,' with a chuckle at the end not expecting any type of reply.  I decided to head outside and get some fresh air. I heard a strange noise way up in the sky. It sounded like it was coming from space. I couldn’t see anything, just a freaky feeling, like something was looking at me.

  A small area directly above me was staring at me when suddenly this small area started to grow. The area that was looking at me was growing.  It quickly filled half the sky and was moving downward towards me. Very difficult to describe. I was a little freaked at this point and headed inside.  I was now in my kitchen headed back to my office when suddenly, my knee’s buckled. My knees have never buckled before and had no idea what was going on.  I couldn’t stand and had to put my hand on the wall to help me from falling to the ground. What was happening to me? Was I having a medical episode of some kind, was I dying?

  As I’m struggling to get to my feet something from above me came down and went through my entire body instantly. I felt this energy everywhere.  I didn’t see or hear anything. In a split second, I was now lying on the kitchen floor in the fetal position and couldn’t move at all. My body shook and began crying at a level I never thought possible.

  But this was a great cry. They were tears of total acceptance, forgiveness and love. There are no words that can fully explain what I felt.  I was surrounded/filled my body with white light. The complete light of love was in every cell in my body. This love filled me up and I needed nothing else. Nothing on this Earth comes close. There are no words to explain this, Bliss.

  The only way I can explain what was happening to me was that energy from above was entering my body from top to bottom. It happened in seconds.  There were multiple waves of energy and information entering me. Again, I didn’t hear or see anything. Just complete information from a lifetime of questions and doubts.

  The first energy download taught me why I was put through so many hardships since birth. It wasn’t by accident or by fate or by bad luck.  They were all pre-planned. To make me stronger and wiser. All the pain I’ve been carrying around all these years was erased. It felt like I was reborn again.  Then more waves of energy and answers came into me.  This experience was overwhelming as they kept me on the floor, still in a fetal position, unable to stand.  God showed me what he was. Not a man or woman or any physical form. God is pure love. Pure super bright white light of energy is the best I can explain it.  God is everything and everywhere and we are a part of God. God is in all of us, good and bad.

  Then God showed me who Jesus was. God created Jesus to make it easier for us to relate to. To not be afraid. I mean, you imagine if God showed up in his true form as a bright white floating light ? We couldn’t relate and most would be terrified.

  Gods mission wouldn’t work.

  Jesus is and was real. Jesus is God as God created him to teach us. To show us the path to God.

  God showed me that life must have a negative an a positive. Like a battery. If you stop and think about it, these positives and negatives are all around us. Without negative days we would never appreciate the good ones. If you never had a bad day, how would you recognize a good one?

  God created heaven and hell along with angels and demons.  I was shown that satin and demons are creatures. They are creatures that God created to balance things out. To be the negative side of the battery.

  They can’t physically hurt us in this world, but they can reach our minds with bad thoughts and can control the weak from another dimension. God showed the demons to me, and they are around us all the time, to get us to sin. To own us. To steal our souls.

  They are horrifying. Round bodies with I think was 8 long thin legs with sharp claws and dirty huge sharp teeth.  But we also have good all around us.  They are spirit guides or angels. It’s a daily battle. It’s a fight for our souls.

  Life on earth isn’t what it seems. This place isn’t home. God showed me that life on earth is simply a school for our souls to learn. To learn love, compassion, pain, guilt, sorrow, and forgiveness.

  We knew God before we decided to come to earth in physical form. Our guides help us choose each life to learn what we need to learn. Sometimes we are a man, others a woman.

  Sometimes white, black or brown. We need to come back to earth repeatedly until we learn before we graduate. For some, it takes hundreds of lifetimes.  God also showed me that the harder a lifetime is, the closer we get to passing the test. He showed me that suicide won’t send you to hell, but you carry the pain with you, and you need to come back here and start all over again.

  God also filled in the answer of why he sometimes lets horrible things happen on Earth. Why do innocent kids die of disease?  Most times the lesson isn’t for the child that passes, the lesson is for their loved ones to experience what they need to experience.

  Heaven and Hell. God showed me both sides, and these places are real. Heaven is home, and It’s beautiful beyond words. No worry, bills, disease or time. It’s a place of true love from God. Everyone loves everyone there, and we need nothing else.

  You absolutely don’t want to go to the dark place. The vision that God showed me was horrifying.

  God told me he wants us to Be Jesus. I didn’t understand this until it was explained. What would Jesus do in any situation? How would Jesus react or say or act. Can you imagine this world if we all tried to be like Jesus - how much better it would be.

  The last thing God showed me was that we need to repent on all our sins now. Don’t wait because something big is going to happen very soon.

  This event will be bigger than anything in Earth’s history. God didn’t say what or when. Just repent now. Before it’s too late.  Repent our sins and stop sinning. To forgive others who have sinned against us and to get right with God.

  Time seemed to stop while this was going on. I’m guessing that I laid on the kitchen floor for a good 20-30 minutes unable to move or stand up, as I was filled with so much love it was overpowering.

  For several months after the God visit, I was so happy and content, knowing what I know now. When I saw cars, traffic and even airplanes I no longer saw the vehicles. I could feel the people’s emotions inside of them.

  After 2 years I still wonder why this happened to me. Does God want me to share my story with as many people as possible? I think about it every other minute of every single day. Why me? Why did God pick me? I’m nothing special. I’m a sinner, but not like before.

  But one thing I know, if you’re not right with God I would do it soon before it’s too late. All of us have a little bit of God in us. God wants us to do good and do what’s right.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 11-17-2021  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.           Other Was in perfect health  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I was shown a future event but was not shown what was going to happen or when but that it would be the biggest event in history. Bigger than the coming of Jesus.  I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Our creator answered all of my life long questions. I was on top of the world for several months after the event.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       the entire experience was overpowering and couldn't stand for 40 minutes  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Hard to explain...Time did not even exist during the experience.  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     impossible to compare  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    no change  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light of God or God itself is the Light of Love. So bright, warm and beautiful. If you would see it and you were walking, it would over power you...your knee's would buckle and you would not be able to stand.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Total acceptance and love from God. Overpowering Love. Warm beautiful light throughout my entire being. Forgiveness for my sins. Also was shown the bad place. Horrifying beyond words. Satan and his army of Demons are very real. The big Show down is right around the corner.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     God showed me everything about everything.  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No     The very first download from above told me that all my Live's horrible things I had to experience were not just by chance. They were all preplanned by God to get me ready for something big in the future. All my pain was gone after this download.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Select   More spiritual  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     More into Jesus. God made him for us, One in the same.  

What is your religion now?       Select   still spiritual  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I have always believed in a God. A creator as it's the only logical means to how these human bodies were developed.  These bodies just didn't make themselves out of nothing. I don't believe anything unless I see it or I experience it for myself. Maybe that's why I was chosen for this experience?  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     treat others better, try not to sin, be happier and less stressed about money and bills.  Everything in my life changed for the better  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   Jesus....God made Jesus so we not be afraid  

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I was shown that life is just a school for our souls to learn. Most of us have lived hundreds of lifetimes as a man then a woman.  We've been black, white yellow, and everything in between.  I was shown Level 22 over and over. We need to reach this Level in order to graduate from this place. Once we pass the test we don't have to come back here again. We can choose other paths or become a spirit guide to help others in human form to achieve Level 22.  

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     God showed me that everything is connected. To God. Everything.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     God is real. 100%  I am no longer afraid to die because where we are going is AWESOME. God is also in each and every one of us. We are all connected. We just don't realize it while in these bodies.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Again, God showed me the meaning of life on earth.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes    God showed the meaning of life and our purpose here  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     Our souls never die. Ever. When we pass from this place, we are so happy we are out of these meat bodies. We feel trapped inside of them.   So free when were set free.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Uncertain     These downloads from above took months to breakdown. I'm sure I'm missing somethings  

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     From the other side, before our birth here, we choose our next life to learn something we didn't learn in past lives. The harder life is the better and the more we learn. We need to learn every single emotion, from being a criminal to a priest.  

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes    Life itself, the universe, EVERYTHING - IT'S ALL ABOUT LOVE and NOTHING ELSE  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I no longer Sin like I used to. I still Sin, but not on purpose. I treat others better and I'm trying to pass the test here so I don't have to come back !  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        I forgave a lot of people that have done me wrong.  I contacted people that I sinned against to apologize. 

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   How does one explain Gods unconditional love for us. God's Love light is impossible to explain. Nothing comes close to this blissful level on this planet.  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  The experience was the best thing by far that has ever happened to me. Nothing else around me or anything in my life was important.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     for several months after I no longer just was cars or airplanes. I could feel people's emotions inside of cars. The more traffic around me the more Joy I felt.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I was so overwhelmed with Joy and excitement I shared with family and friends right after. What a mistake !!!  Most thought I was crazy and some even don't talk to me anymore. I fired most of my friends because they were really never friends, just users and liars. I feel God removed the bad out of my life on purpose.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   from time to time I would watch NDE videos on You tube. That was the extent of it.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Nothing like this has happened before or after. It was more real than this place. My knees have never buckled and nothing has ever put me on the floor and crying uncontrollable for no reason at all. I was on top of the world for months after. I have always been shy and I love to sing but too scared to sing in public. I was singing karaoke the next night with NO FEAR.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I am very logical. I have to figure out why things happen, how do things work.  This was not something that happens on Earth. It was a very special experience.  I wish it would happen again and to everyone else so they could experience the Love that I did.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No            				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jeff_h_ste.html