{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jeff_nde.html","mytitle":"Jeff NDE 2403","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jeff NDE 2403  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jeff NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						718  Jeff NDE  2403  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

As I had already passed into unconsciousness at 2:00 am in my auto-asphyxiation suicide attempt I was at the edge of a cliff stepping into an deep abyss of darkness filled with thousands of people with their arms outstretched to me. I could see no faces but I saw the arms outstretched. As I began to step into the void, I was snatched back from the edge by an unseen force and I heard the words, 'It is not your time; I am not through with you yet.' The very next moment my wife was pulling me from the car and resuscitating me.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 august 2004  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Suicide attempt       Other I had passed into unconsciousness as a result of automobile asphyxiation during a suicide attempt.  Attempted auto-asphyxiation suicide.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As I was standing over, and stepping into the great abyss.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   I cannot say anything other than it appeared to me that I may have been looking into hell at the lost.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I stood over a deep abyss - I may have passed through a tunnel to get there I cannot say.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw the forms and arms of humans in the pit but I could not see their faces clearly. It was very ethereal.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       No fear or doubt - just a peaceful uncertainty. I was fully prepared to die at that point.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     It seems today as if I have greater powers of intuition and a stronger spirit of discernment.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Unidentifiable voice     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   Not until after I realized that I had been spared did I begin to try to help others who may be suffering as I was.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     It just seems as if my powers of discernment and my ability to read people has increased somewhat.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The entire abyss experience.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I began to share my experience with others almost immediately upon my return. I share it frequently as a part of my life's testimony in trying to let others know that hell; or some place of cruel darkness and lost humanity does exist.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Only what the media has carried over the years with regard to going to light - I had never heard of anyone heading into darkness.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Because God spoke to me and the circumstances surrounding my experience were wholly revelatory in nature.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     God let me see into hell to know that it is real and for me to try to convince others that they need to turn to Him so as to avoid the abyss that He let me view.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jeff_nde.html