{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jeff_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Jeff C NDE 3467","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jeff C NDE 3467  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jeff C NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1536 Jeff C NDE 3467  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was bitten by fire ants while working. I noticed that I was having a very bad allergic reaction, hives and swelling, and called to be transported to the hospital by a co-worker. They were late and by the time I reached the hospital I was in very bad shape, I could tell by the look on the nurses face and the fact that I did not have to wait, they rushed me right in. I remember laying on the gurney and thinking I have to slow the flow of poison by slowing my heart rate so I used my relaxation training I learned in high school swimming and key words 'let go' and then everything went black. 

I remember feeling very relaxed and comfortable, and being very aware of myself, my identity. I felt like I was floating but I saw only black everywhere. I remember thinking that I was dead and this is what being dead feels like, but I was warm and comfortable with no more needs like paying bills or eating or feeling hungry. I didn't want to go back but then my eyes opened and a nurse was leaning over me checking my eye dilation. She said we lost you for a little bit and then I noticed that many people were around and I was hooked up to monitors and breathing tubes. I walked out of the hospital two hours later even though they wanted to keep me for observation - I felt perfectly fine in about ten minutes after waking up.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  several 1976-1990

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Allergic reactionDirect head injury    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) 'several stress related as a child, anaphylactic shock as a result of fire ants.'  I believed I would die if medical help didn't come immediately.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As soon as everything went black I felt great, like nothing could bother me anymore.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Just darkness.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Supreme comfort.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Not religious - spiritual. I have been on a quest first through looking at religion historically (and finding many flaws created by man), then I was guided to meditation, hypnosis, and sub atomic particle physics theory. This is why I say spiritual - religious is manmade, spiritual is individual.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Not religious - spiritual. I have been on a quest first through looking at religion historically (and finding many flaws created by man), then I was guided to meditation, hypnosis, and sub atomic particle physics theory. This is why I say spiritual - religious is manmade, spiritual is individual.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes My relationship with my self is the change. I have very little direct contact with others, no longer needing them or approval. I understand that I am here by myself and this existence is only a concept perturbed by my thoughts. The 'bigger' part of me is the other side of the 'void' and because of this I am never alone.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I know my identity is an eternal existence now. I would no longer call it consciousness; it is a self-identity separate from consciousness - more like a super consciousness.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my sister right away, I was living with her and her family at the time. Others that I have told hold their own personal view; it does not seem to change them in any way.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   No and yes, as a child I went through a period of blacking out or fainting spells that mimic this experience. The sensation of floating and sometimes knowing what is going on though separated from my body. I did not know it was an out of body experience at the time.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I believed it was very real as soon as I got back, too some extent I had gotten used to blacking out, but this time it was more - deeper into the darkness and the feeling that even though I was dead, I continued to be something.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It took a while to change me, eight to nine years, but it is the one thing that I can look back on and be okay with what is going on in my (dream) life. I know that I can reach without boundaries not being afraid of criticism or what others think. I think that was the big lesson of this moment.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Both marijuana and depression.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       If there is a fourth dimension - that is what it would feel like.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jeff_c_nde.html