{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jedraine_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Jedraine C NDE 2733","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jedraine C NDE 2733  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jedraine C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						912  Jedraine C NDE  2733  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  It was April 2006 and I was driving home from an event at my school going about 140 kmh in my car when I lost control. The car skidded sideways on the road, into the ditch, and then into a telephone pole. As soon as I struck the pole I remember total darkness. At this time in reality, the car had struck the pole sideways and my body was mangled and near-death inside the vehicle. I was transported to a hospital eighty miles away and was clinically dead for ten minutes. Okay - back to my point of view.

As soon as my car struck the pole, I saw nothing. Immediately, I presumed that I was dead, but soon realized that I was still conscious and this shouldn't be. I couldn't see, I couldn't smell, I couldn't feel anything and it was as if I was paralyzed but standing up at the same time. About this time, I started thinking to myself (not aloud) that this sucked and that I was right - I knew all along there would end up being no God or afterlife and that religion was nonsense. At the very moment that I thought this, the most terrifying experience of my life began.

Quietly at first, I began hearing non-worldly voices and screams of evil or laughter. I became scared and didn't know what was going on. The voices got louder and louder and soon, I could 'feel' the presence of beings or evil all around me. The voices began to become more distinctive and some of the 'beings' were shouting 'Come with us, come with us!! Haha, haha, heehee, Are you ready for it?!' in very scary voice tones. I began to realize that it sounded as though these were demons or evil beings associated with Satan. Even though before the experience I was very critical of religion and God, these things were convincing me otherwise and I immediately began saying 'Jesus loves me!!! The power of God will kill you all, Jesus save me!!' The beings started to yell, furious, 'There is no fucking God you pathetic ugly bastard! If there was a God your life would have been worth a shit!!' And so I continued, 'Jesus save me!! I believe in you Jesus, God help me!' And the demons continued to yell and curse at me but at the same time they were slowly retracting from me and their presence was minimizing.

At this moment a piercing white, beam of light the width of a pen shot down to us. The demons began screaming and moaning, as if they were melting and soon they disappeared. The light was literally blinding but I could stare directly into it without flinching. I felt as though - I all of a sudden knew everything there was to know about everything and I felt this enormous presence of love and respect and everything good. Artistic portrayals of Jesus began flashing before my eyes, all different kinds of pictures and paintings and I saw a sequence of the crucifixion of Christ. The light was getting brighter at this time, and wider. Soon Jesus appeared in front of me and I could do nothing but fall to my knees and then lay my head on the floor at his feet. It was like that for an eternity and then Jesus said, 'You are worthy child, rise.' So I did and faced the Lord Jesus Christ with utmost guilt and feelings of utter insignificance. Jesus said, 'You have learned from your mistakes my child. You will return, and you will show others the way. You will spread the love of God.' I immediately began to weep uncontrollably (yes even though I'm a seventeen year old dude) and kept saying, 'I am unworthy Lord.' At this moment, I was in the presence of my deceased relatives, two uncles, an aunt, a grandfather and a great-grandmother of whom none spoke but they pointed to the 'ground', indicating I must return. At this point, I was spontaneously in my mortal body in the hospital looking up at my parents and friends. They would never believe the story.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 14 April 2006  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Car crash.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I felt as though I was no longer restricted to a worldly human body and that I could see 360 degrees around me and felt more alive and awake than ever before by far. It was certainly not a dream.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As soon as the while light pierced the darkness I felt most conscious.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   There was no sense of time-space continuum.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see more clearly, as on Earth I had near-sightedness.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     The white light that I described, it felt as though I was moving closer to it as it was widening, yes.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Jesus Christ, two uncles, one aunt, one grandfather, one great-grandmother.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Very bright light.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, anger, happiness, unworthiness, guilt, hate, sorrow.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Agnostic  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I was an atheist/agnostic prior to the experience and now am a Christian; follower of Jesus Christ.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Christian  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I was an atheist/agnostic prior to the experience and now am a Christian; follower of Jesus Christ.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I just felt as if I knew everything and knew Love.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I tend to be more inquisitive and spiritual with friends/family.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   Some elements are hard to explain in words.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It was significant that I met Jesus and felt such love and awe.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my family and friends almost immediately after I regained worldly consciousness. They tended to believe me because we had actually talked about NDEs before.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I read up on NDEs on the internet before this. It made me believe them even more.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew it was real because a 'dream' feels nothing like it did, and I met deceased relatives and felt something I can never explain.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jedraine_c_nde.html