{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jeannine_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Jeannine M NDE 6580","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jeannine M NDE 6580  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jeannine M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3297 Jeannine M NDE 6580  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was spending a weekend at the beach in Sète (near Spain on the Med), and I was in a restaurant with my husband, my son and my mother. My mother asked me to go with her to the toilets. I crossed the dining room and started to feel unwell. We went outside and I waited for her there. There was a man waiting there. As I was told later, it was a man who told my husband and my mother that I had fainted. I just felt myself leaving my body through the top of my head, (with some difficulty) then finding myself out of it. That is, free. Then I said to myself, ‘I'm dead. I'm going to be buried here in Sète, like Paul Valéry and Georges Brassens’ (the latter was still alive, but was buried in Sète after he died).

I was all right, observing the cement paving stones on the terrace, which seemed wonderful to me, as did the sea and the sand. Suddenly I was projected towards a being of light who was not visible (there was no tunnel). He asked me (without a voice, by a kind of telepathy) if I accepted my death. I replied that my mother and my son still needed me. Then he kind of ‘smiled,’ or that's what I felt. A slightly mocking smile, which meant ‘no’.

Then I began to defend myself, saying, ‘all right, then, but not here, not in Sète. People have been racist toward us here (which was true, but the fact is I did not want my family to bear the burden of transporting my body to Toulouse where we lived). How disappointed, yet how generous he was. Because this was my choice, he said, ‘All right, but in that case,’ and there followed a promise whose nature I did not understand. Then I fell back into my body, and there I found my family who were in a state of anxiety.  We left the restaurant and returned to Toulouse where I began to regret my decision. I got dressed and crossed my hands, awaiting a death, which did not come. I have told my family all about this experience. They believe me and often talk about ‘when Jeannine died in Sète’.  Later on, life has been very, very hard for me and now I know why God wanted to take me far from here. He is so good; he wanted to spare me the media persecution, which awaited me. For more than thirty years, I have been, and still am now, a laughing-stock in France and even beyond, thanks to the ‘despicable’ French media. If you don't believe me, look it up.

But since then He is with me, answers my questions and loves me with an unconditional love. He and Mary help me on a daily basis. I've lost everything. My son, my grandchildren, my family and my friends, but I have gained more than anyone else can lay claim to. I have become a mystic but I still don't go to church, as I cannot trust priests or the church. They are too haughty, too wary of people like me. I write on a GOOGLE+ account but often I erase it afterwards, as it is hard to say these things, and to read them (I know that people read me, as people are up to date with my hassles with the media, who will tell you I'm crazy, of course, as this suits them).

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  ?il y a longtemps

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Other: j'avais le sentiment d'être morte après un malaise  I suffer from hypertension and it was too hot behind the bay-windows of a restaurant on the beach. I may also have had a glass of wine, I don't remember.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Throughout.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     In earth terms I am told it was a short time. In that place, which seemed to be between earth and heaven, it was quite long.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Precision of detail.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No sounds around me during the experience. No music, no scenery. Nothing but the Light.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No     Now I understand, but if for you Jesus is deceased, for me he is not. For me there was just a single ‘personality’. An infinitely superior being, infinitely good, who feels for his creatures an infinite love and an indescribable respect.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   As everyone says, white light, gentle; it seemed to form a rampart to the beyond.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Being loved like a child.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     As I said, just one: I knew that Brassens was dead and buried in Sète, though he wasn't yet at that time. I was so certain of the truth of it that I have never tried to find out where he is buried (in Sète, translator's note).

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   As I said, this was because of the difficulties my sudden death would have caused my family, far from our home.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   catholique non praticante

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   très mystique

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     It is obvious my values have changed. One must be pleasing to Him who loves us so much, and who forgives us with such tenderness. We must do what He asks of us.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   The question is badly put (speaking as a teacher). Of course I encountered Jesus, not his voice, but a heart to heart communication, spirit to spirit.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   j'ai répondu oui mais je ne suis pas sûre d'avoir compris la question.Pour moi alors c'était Dieu ou Jésus ,d'ailleurs je suis persuadée que Jéus c'est dieu incarné(le pauvre!)

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     je l'ai déjà fait.Il était là,il était Dieu

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Everything changed. I know many things that others don't. I know our earthly life is an experience needed to improve us or help us. I know we live a number of lives, that we have nothing to fear if we respect God. I am seen by some as a clairvoyant, to myself I am an initiate.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Yes and no. I am a person who is not afraid to look life in the face. I have always stood up for my faith against ‘winds and tides’ since childhood. Of course the spin-off of this is that I'm thought crazy, like everyone who has had a similar experience.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I think I have always had them, but now I speak with God and he answers me. I put questions to him, and he responds to my sufferings. I've become a medium. The dead appear to me if they need to communicate with others. Those who can make themselves known, they help me. I feel them around me. They react, laugh, and are comforted or applaud.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        As I said, God knew that I would suffer, He wanted to spare me. What He promised me is certainly this powerful help.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I regretted my refusal to move on. I had and still have the thought that I was foolish.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The same as before. It was true.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Of course the experience has become my life. It is repeated as often as needed, but without the light. Just the feeling of a presence, the advice, and the answers.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I must admit that I am waiting, despite myself, to know if my earthly life is exceptional. I do not really have any answer to if this is just the result of karma.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Some of the questions are not very clear. It should be asked if now one bears times of trial more easily than before.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jeannine_m_nde.html