{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jeanne_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Jeanne H NDE 9498","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jeanne H NDE 9498  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jeanne H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5111 Jeanne H NDE 9498  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I was in the middle of giving birth and in complete pain, when the pain just vanished.  My body floated upwards. I looked around to see the room and the nurses panicking because I wasn’t breathing. 

  I seem to be pulled away from watching to see a domed, very large entrance with figures dressed in pure light.  They were walking towards me. I really didn’t want to leave because it was peace such as I had never experienced before.  I had a two-year-old son and was giving birth to a much-wanted second son. I just knew everything would be ok. I thought about what it would be like not to go back and I knew that everything and everyone would be fine.  It was then that I looked to my side to see an angelic presence.  The angel told me it wasn’t my time to go yet, I was still needing... I didn't hear the rest as I seemed to fall back into my body at extreme speed. I was greeted with extreme pain and nurses shouting, 'We got her back!' Then I was told to push. It took me fourteen years to talk about this experience because my son was not expected to live. 
  
  It was many years later, after going through multiple transformations in my life and health that I met that angelic presence again.  He is my guardian angel and my guide who I talk to. I’m now a shamanic healer self-taught with so many beautiful experiences with the angelic realms and many other experiences.  Before my near death experience, I was in an extremely unhappy relationship, and it was my guardian angel who came to my aid and gave me the strength to leave it.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1992  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes.    Childbirth       Other I flatlined for a few seconds while giving birth  
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

  Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes   I never discussed my experience  with anyone.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  
  
  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Because my experience happened  so long ago and I've grown so spiritually aware, I can honestly say tha my consciousness was very similar to the stage of reaching samadhi - complete inner peace and tranquility that is impossible to find on this earth  
  
At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As soon as I left my body I became aware of everything and everyone in the room it felt like I was connected to everything  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

  Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     So much happened in the must have been only a few minutes I was gone it didn’t make sense to me at the time  
  
Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was crystal clear and everywhere at once .. beforehand it obviously wasn’t  

  Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I can’t say my hearing changed it was more like I was my senses changed and I was hearing thoughts and vibrations watching myself while out of my body and hearing the nurses talking it sounded more like echoes.  
  
Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Yes all around me as I saw the tunnel  

  Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     It was like being in a white room but the light was floating and almost smoke-like  
  
What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Complete inner peace, no sadness at all I’d actually word it as completely emotionless not happy or sad just stillness and peace  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Yes it’s like absolutely everything made sense  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No     It felt like my mind went back through my life and it finally made sense  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

  Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will.  I did want to meet the beings walking towards me but was pulled back  
  
God, Spiritual and Religion:     

  What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated.   No real faith but very spiritually aware as a child of spirits  
  
  Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Completely. I no longer fear death I have been able to help others cross-over and heal beforehand  
  
  What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated.   Spiritualism, shamanic healer  
  
Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience       

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     God is unconditional love and it exists in us all we manifest every experience into our lives  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I saw an angelic being dressed in long white robes years later this angelic being came back into my life he’s my Male archetype alexandros  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I felt like I was connected to everything  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes    I was told I had so much more to do yet  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     The angelic presence in the long white robes and the being figures made of pure light led me to the personal belief that our souls are eternal it’s only the body that dies  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Uncertain     Only my own and my family  

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I felt unconditional love complete love and acceptance of everything  

  What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life.     I started seeing angels and talking to them. Multiple dimensions opened up to me.  I became aware that time is only solid on this dimension, time is free-flowing on other dimensions. I became very aware of energy and seeing into bodies; my past lives I saw my life completely changed  
  
Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I left my abusive relationship and I no longer judge others but see them as a reflection of myself  

After the NDE:     

  Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It took me a long time to even talk about it because I didn’t understand any of it especially the time bit, even writing it today had me in tears because it changed my whole perception of death  
  
How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes      I channel and talk/ see other beings feel energy see into bodies  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Being introduced to a different life completely  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was a long time because of the situation relationship I was in  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real      It didn’t cross my mind because my son was on life support  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Because life has unfolded it’s truth to me  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Reaching samadhi felt similar  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It’s changed my entire life  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Could ask about energy and how it’s changed or if it’s changed in your everyday life            				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jeanne_h_nde.html