{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jeanne_nde.html","mytitle":"Jeanne NDE 2632","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jeanne NDE 2632  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jeanne NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						860  Jeanne NDE  2632  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  After being hit from behind by a drunk driver at 3:55 am on highway I-10 in Southern California, while lying on the side of the highway, and before the ambulance arrived, having been seriously injured, a very real and clear man's voice asked if I was ready to go. I answered no, I needed to say goodbye to my two children and not put them through this at this time. Before I heard his voice: I was walking down a dark street, I kind of recall seeing the area before. I felt lost and it was getting late, 'knew I should be home before now'. As I turned the corner, I saw the cutest little house, all lit up and the yard, with a white picket fence was full of people, all welcoming me. They were so glad to see me. I felt my deceased father's presence, but unclear which person he was in the large group - there was so much love and warmth. A wonderful feeling. The best place I'd ever been/seen and I felt so loved. Then when I heard the voice, and answered NO, the scene was gone. Until I said NO, I felt no pain from my two broken femurs, broken hip, fractured ribs, arm partially torn off, cuts to face - -from being ejected from my pick-up and thrown over two hundred feet from the impact. I was hit from behind by a car traveling over a hundred mph with no headlights on. As soon as I answered the man's question, I felt no pain, was warm, secure, and comfortable - then the pain started, I couldn't move any part of my body. Blood everywhere and the ambulance had arrived and was trying to move me - I was never scared.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 6/29/1987  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Near fatal car accident.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Noticed and recalled every small detail.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       It is on the accident report, 'at no time was patient unconscious' I knew the answer to every question and was able to talk to the emergency medical technicians.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Because it was pitch black with the lighting, except from occasional traffic. Not sure.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     Didn't have any feeling of a tunnel, or bright light other than the well-lit house and yard in front.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Warmest greeting I ever experienced. They were all familiar, but couldn't name them - they were calling to me.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   House lighting. Normal well lit house lights. Every light in house was shining.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither     the street and house was very real and natural...just a "pretty little house" nothing fancy or different..very homey  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calm. Never scared. Everything would be okay.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     Lost all fear of dying. Have never felt very upset or sad when someone passes away. I know they are where they want to be. Not afraid or scared.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     There is a hereafter. We go on forever with those we love around us.  

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     There is a hereafter. We go on forever with those we love around us.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   There is a hereafter and we will all be together. No pain, cold, hunger, sadness.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Life is more simple, friends and family are more important to me. Time together is meaningful. I try to express the feeling to others, that we are all important to each other - no need for regret or sadness if we lose someone. They are okay and waiting for us to all be together again.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Learned what the end was all about.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    When those close to me have died, I've tried to explain to those left behind, what their loved ones would experience and that it was okay. Most found it hard to understand.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   When I was twenty-one years old, I was near death, while in the hospital having my daughter. I heard the same 'man's voice' asking me if I wanted to 'go' - but never understood. So when I heard it this time, I knew exactly what it was.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I know that we all have the choice to go beyond. Time to leave this plane is our choice. Only when we are finally through here, do we go on. We can stay here, sick, old, until we are ready to leave.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Even if there is a sudden occurrence, we still have a choice to stay or go - no matter how serious the injury, etc. I was not expected to live; even the emergency medical technicians thought I was going to die. They were surprised when they learned I was still alive. They came to my intensive care unit room to say hello.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No           				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jeanne_nde.html