{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jeanne_mk_nde.html","mytitle":"Jeanne MK NDE 7747","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jeanne MK NDE 7747  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jeanne MK NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3994 Jeanne MK NDE 7747  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was a pleasant day and the drive-in had just opened.  I went out to clean off my windshield, which was the only time I was outside that day. I went inside and finished cooking a meal.  I felt so tired, that I needed to take a shower to try to wake up. When I came out of the shower, I felt even worse.  So I laid down with my wet towel over my body.  I wanted to rest for a few moments. My neighbor walked in my trailer and exclaimed, 'My God what happened to you!' and I said, 'Nothing, Why?' She replied, 'Look at you!' I tried to look but my head felt a terrible resistance.  There were blisters as big as footballs on top of each of my thighs and calves. My feet looked like volleyballs, they were so swollen. I had one blister that ran from my face to the edge of my shoulders. She ran to get her husband who had been a lifeguard in Florida.  He grabbed me up and put me in the back of my car.  He drove me to the emergency room and was yelling for help as soon as we got to the door. Nobody had ever seen anything like this.  I wasn't in any pain and I still flirted with a really cute orderly who wheeled my gurney up to the isolation room. When they called my parents, they told them that the closest diagnosis they could come to was some kind of burn.  But, it was like no burn they had ever seen. I was 'burned' over 98% of my body with 2nd and 3rd degree burns.  The medical staff to my parents that they should take the time they had to say goodbye to me. 

The first time my sister-in-law came to see me, she passed out and had to be carried out of the room. I spent the next three months dying off and on. Each time I died, it was even better than before. Every time I got a little further.  I had read a lot of religious works and all my life I have always believed there was something bigger than us. It wasn't until that first episode that I got the chance to see for myself just how real Heaven and Hell really are. 

The first time I died I was scared and didn't know what was happening.  I had not been far away from home, so I was lost. I thought, 'What on earth are those people doing?' as I watched them racing around my shell of a body with the shock paddles trying to get my heart started again. I remember laughing and thought, 'Oh, no. I'm out of here.'  Then I was where someone was showing a very negative side of where people could go and stay. I just knew that I had to be the wrong place and I said, 'Please not me. I'm sorry. I'm so sorry for anything I have ever done.' All of a sudden, I was floating down this mother of pearl path.  I was moving and the path was so much more beautiful because it had colors in it that I don't think I could ever begin to describe.  I moved to a path where people were walking.  Some of these people I knew from before came to me and asked me, 'Do you want to go see the buildings?' Of course I said, 'Yes.' 

At that time, I got yanked back into my body.  It felt like someone had turned on a giant vacuum and took away everything from me. All I could think about was getting back to that world. I wouldn't have to wait too long because soon after that, I died again. This time, I did get into the buildings. I got to see into the library where shelves of books glisten.  I saw buildings that sparkled like they were brand new, even though they were ancient. I was so sure that I would be able to stay that time, but they brought me back to my body again. I was really beginning to hate the people that were so misguided to keep bringing me back. 

The third time, some people who went with me to the library took me to a room called a viewing room. It is where they can check on people to make sure events are going as they are supposed to be. They told me to look in the viewer. I saw my son, Brian. Then they told me that I needed to go back to take care of my son Adam. I told them I didn't have a son named Adam. They told me that soon I would. Three years later, even though I was on the strongest birth control pills available, I had a son; I named him Adam.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1973

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Reason was never determined  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   I died three times, once as long as twenty minutes where they had called it quits.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  See narrative  No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I felt more alive than I ever had. I felt more loved than I ever had. I never wanted to leave my home there.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole time

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time doesn't have any meaning there at all. You will not find a clock there.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Incredible

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Incredible

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     See narrative

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I was adopted when I was very young, and yet when I met these people, I still knew them when they came to me and told me they were family.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   See narrative

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     See narrative

The experience included:       Hellish imagery

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       See narrative

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     That is why I find it impossible to attend one church. None of them is correct. They don't concentrate enough where they should.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Life review

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     I saw enough of the world's future on my own at that time

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     See narrative

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   Mother was Methodist father was catholic so was not really allowed to go to either due to tense family situation.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     See narrative

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated   After what I experienced and learned while I was there I found that all religions have some truth and some have some learning to do. the best way to honor God is in your heart and actions to your fellow man and family.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I had always been a spiritual person but this was just so much more and showed me what I needed to know about God.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   I cann not put a name to the entity that I saw I just know that it was extremely peaceful and loving. We were'nt personally introduced

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     twice I was a doctor during the second ww  I was hung for being a witch during the salem trials

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     see narrative

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     definitely That should answer your question

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     see narrative

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     see narrative

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Uncertain     Not sure what else you would like to know

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     This is a training ground we come here to learn some people choose a very easy way and that's people you call silver spoons. Some people take the hard path and that would be your poor and downtrodden and they reap the best places when they go HOME. The more you learn while you are down in the gutter and stay true to yourself the better your reward. Just like in school. the longer you stay the better the reward. Suicide is not a sin it is a sickness and people should not say  'commit'suicide because that infers a sin.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     You can love but don't ever love anyone more than God

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       I do not fear death because God will take me Home when the time comes. An afterlife life definitely exists.  People are able to see their past lives in the viewing rooms so they can learn from those lives.  Then if a person chooses to return for another class, they may do so. Our earthly lives are important because if we don't live them properly, then we are doomed to make the same mistakes over again. Not fearful in my earthly life because I feel God is there watching me every day. My spiritual life is very important to me.  That is why every moment of every day, whenever I get a spare second even if it is only 10 seconds, I say a prayer. You would be surprised how many prayers you can get out at red lights on a short drive.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I didn't put up with bad relationships, once I found out that the other person wasn't there to work on them.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There are colors, sensations, feelings that are so far above anything we have here it is as if a veil has been lifted.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     While I was in the hospital, I was not allowed to see anyone's face, body, or anything because it was 100% isolation. All I saw was gowns, masks, and gloves. When I was finally able to leave the hospital, I was finally able to see them without gowns, masks, and gloves. Everybody I looked at has a glow around him or her but every body's glow was different. Then I realized what I was seeing. It was their spirit. I could tell what day of what month of what year each person was going to die just by looking at him or her. A neighbor of mine, and her husband asked me to come over to plant a couple of flowers in her backyard and bring my baby over so her husband could play with him. He had always been like Adam's grandfather, so I said yes.  When I was there, she asked if I could take his blood pressure with a cuff because I had nursing classes. I went in to the kitchen and he almost blinded me. I could hardly read the numbers on the meter because he was shining so brightly. When Adam and I went to stay at my mother's that night, I told her that we were going to sleep in our clothes.  I had told Bernice (my neighbor) to call me if she needed me.  I knew she would be calling me at 2:00 a.m. because Bill was going to die at 2:00 a.m.  My mother said, 'How can you say such awful things?' I told her that it was just what was going to happen. Bernice called at 2:05 and I told her Adam and I were on our way.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Bernice had no idea how to get a hold of her daughter who was on vacation somewhere Spain with her husband. Bernice was almost in a panic. She knew I had found people before so I told her I would find her. She asked me how since she was all the way in Spain. I told her God would tell me. About a half an hour later, I got up and called a number.  It was a number of a hotel, but the man didn't understand English. I got him to keep repeating her name over and over.  At that time, her daughter walked through the lobby and heard the desk clerk saying her name.  She took the phone from him and I was able to talk to her. Bernice said I was her angel.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have shared it with several other people, some believe it, others are not so sure.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Vividly real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     That world feels more real than this one does. This feels like school.  It is a good thing I was a teacher.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I had a stroke in 2001 at home by myself.  At first, I didn't think I was going to make it.  But God decided this was not the time to come home.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jeanne_mk_nde.html