{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jean_marie_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Jean-Marie P NDE 3963","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jean-Marie P NDE 3963  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jean-Marie P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1904 Jean-Marie P NDE 3963  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was after an exam, and I was supposed to go back home by motorbike.

I was in a collision with an automobile. A head-on crash, but the car was turning in front of me and was no longer going very fast.

At this point, I can no longer manage to describe what happened. In hindsight, it seems to me that I was with some people in a fairy-like place. A bit like an enchanted place, with flowers, trees, it felt good but I could not stay there!

All this is very vague and I am not sure about anything.  It's a bit like a distant memory, which comes back in successive flashes!

I also had the feeling I saw myself on the ground next to the bike, but this is also vague.

The only thing I am absolutely certain of, and which I could remember directly after the accident, is the flash, as I have always called it, though I was not dazzled. It was not so much a flash as a reverse flash.

Actually, I was in the light, and the world appeared to me as a little black dot. Then this dot grew larger and larger, until I seemed to pass from one world to another. I was surrounded by light and then little by little the black dot, at first tiny, grew bigger, to finally absorb me. The transition came about at dizzying speed. Yet, I remember it as if it were yesterday, as I did when I came back.

I've had trouble sorting out what happened just after the accident. As if time, not the events themselves were stored in a random way in my memory, due to the shock, perhaps.

Years later, I heard about tunnels of light, and I thought about my flash, and the way I saw the world grow from a little black dot, into the real world. It was the passage between 'somewhere' and our world. (I remember particularly coming out of a great tunnel of light.)

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1985

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Other accident moto  Motorcycle crash.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I came out of the tunnel of light. It is very clear, and I have no doubts about it. The rest is vague!

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Especially when it comes to ordering the events, I have difficulty saying in what order things happened.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Straight after I came out of the tunnel, I felt as if I was there, but without being there.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    As if voices were coming from far off.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     See main narrative.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I was in the light. This was brighter than a searchlight, but I was never dazzled by it.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Mais c'est flou et je ne suis sûr de rien

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt nothing, not hot nor cold, not afraid or in pain. But I was impressed with the speed at which I went through the tunnel of light.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Catholique non pratiquant mais croyant

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I feel the suffering in people's souls.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They have given me strange looks, or else they make fun of me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was sure, and I still am, and this memory leaves me no room for doubt! I came out of a tunnel of light.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I remember it very well (the tunnel).

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jean_marie_p_nde.html