{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jean_louis_r_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Jean-Louis R Probable NDE 9627","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jean-Louis R Probable NDE 9627  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jean-Louis R Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						5190 Jean-Louis R Probable NDE 9627  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    At the beach with my parents - in the summer - I was playing in the water.

    I was immersed in it up to my waist, approximately.

    I slipped on a layer of silt.

    I don't remember falling into the water, nor the return to the beach.

    The only lasting memory: the vision of a large patch of white light in a very dark environment. Like the sight of moonlight on a cloudless summer night.

    I felt no fear, heard no message, no being, I was in no form whatsoever.

    I regained consciousness while lying on the beach; people all around me, reassured by my recovery of consciousness, were moving away while talking as I gently raised myself to sit on the sand.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 Summer 1970  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Drowning.       Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   In sea water up to my waist, in the Arcachon basin, I slipped on a layer of silt.  
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I have no idea.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     No concept of time. Between the moment I slid in the water and the moment arms picked me up and dropped me on the beach, how long did it take? A minute or more? No idea.  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       No  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Same  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I didn't have hearing underwater.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

  Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I don’t think so.  I was probably only at the entrance.  
  
Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   White light, but like an electric spotlight. I couldn't see through.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calm.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   At the age of 10, mass on Sunday, only because my parents attended.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   Non-practicing for more than three years. Too much incoherence in biblical texts, when one begins to study and reflect.  

  Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     At the age of 10, my sole knowledge came from school  and with a strong taste for truancy.
  
Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            No       

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?            When I started working - and therefore to be financially independent - I bought and immersed myself in the books of Professor Moody, as well as other authors published afterwards, even some dealing with the soul of animals. Was it an aftereffect to my vision???  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     When I was very young and not steeped in beliefs, I perceived things as they happen.  
  
  What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     My father, who is now deceased,  as well as my mother and a friend of a friend, told me about their experience. This could be a story that I could develop as needed.  
  
At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jean_louis_r_probable_nde.html