{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jeanne_k_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Jeanne K Probable NDE 16130","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jeanne K Probable NDE 16130  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jeanne K Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						5177 Jeanne K Probable NDE 16130  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

       We lived in a neighborhood where we all felt safe. It was a great time in America where we did not lock our doors. All the neighborhood children would play together outside for hours. Sometimes we would play baseball, or kickball in the middle of our wide street.   We were crafty in building our skateboards with scraps of wooden boards and roller skate wheels. Some of us made carts with these wheels.   There was a creek nearby and some of us would visit the creek and traverse the edges to see how far it went. We even attempted to build a raft by  vollecting fallen tree branches and binding them with string. This was a charming small waterway that wound around the backside of many homes and vacant lots. These were joyful times for all of us. We could do what we want but wWe had to be home for dinner.

  It was magical as we explored our creative imaginations as children often do. We felt safe and played for months off and on exploring the creek.  At the age of 7 years old, I was always outside and playing with my neighborhood friends. 

  I remember drinking from the creek.    This necessitated the neighborhood doctor coming to the house daily for at least 2 months. The doctor would arrive carrying his black bag, a small bottle of penicillin, and a large syringe with a needle at the end of it. He would draw the medicine up into this glass cylinder and inject me. I was so ill that I did not care. I remember being in my bed in my large bedroom. I was a small, frail child. I did not like food. This upset my parents when I would only eat a small amount of a few of my favorite foods.   

    I remember being aware that I was out of my body and away from the house. I was thrilled to be out of pain. It was so peaceful. I observed myself and saw that I was a thin blue, floating spirit. It looked like a slow-moving fabric, such as a tule-like veil. I remember looking around at the colors of a vast sky. I had never seen colors like this before. The stars were bright; the huge sky was a dark blue or indio in color.     I do not remember speaking to anyone, nor the presence of any spiritual beings. I was just enjoying being out of pain and free-floating.  

     I looked down and  recognized the planet earth as it appeared as  a round globe.  I floated closer to my home; and could see my neighborhood and the houses around me. I could see my backyard and the window to my bedroom. I began to wonder what was happening as I floated into my room. I saw my spare twin-bed across from my bed and the nurse in full uniform, taking a nap. She wore a white hat, white uniform, white sheer stockings and freshly polished, white shoes. 

    I wondered what this was all about. I looked over at my bed and  saw my frail, little body lying so quietly and still.     I heard the doctor say to my parents, 'She is very ill and if she does not improve soon, we will have to admit her to the hospital.' I then saw a light blue veil lay over my body and it was sucked into my very ill, fevered, and painful body. I started to moan and move in pain. It was such an awful feeling being sucked back into my body and feeling the pain and fever of the illness. The doctor and my parents rushed to my side. 

    I did not have to go to the hospital. It was a long recovery, as    it took  3 months to heal at home. I also had yellow jaundice. I eventually went back to the second grade and completed my schooling.

    I never forgot this experience and to this day can still feel and recall all of it; especially the beautiful skyscape of colors in the heavens and sky. The quiet peacefulness of the universe, softly cradling me back to my home.    I sometimes think I went up to negotiate with the universe my current earth-life contract and if I was able to make amendments or changes to it as my life has been rather traumatic at times. It is as if I could see the chaos and trauma and wanted to make changes to prevent me from experiencing all my life’s experiences.     I laugh now.    

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1952  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness        Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I was in my bedroom in my bed with my parents at my bedside. The Dr. present said I was very ill and he would have to admit me to the hospital. I was ill with hepititis.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Extremely aware of my surroundings  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was heightened during my NDE. I was a child in awe and feeling safe.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Extreme clarity in all senses.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   ight from stars  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No     No  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Great peace, calmness awareness of my surroundings. Joyful  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will    

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   Attended church with my family on Sundays. Studied the bible, went to bible class. No pressure.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     am more open to other religions. I know that we all end up in the same place. No one gets off the planet alive. Why would you?  

What is your religion now?       Other faiths- New age   Spiritual faith. Belief in kind spiritual practices. I a in touch wth my guides. I can feel them. They sometimes shroud me with chills and love.  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Too young  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            No       

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life       

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am more inquisitive of events. I tell people of my experiences.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  It was not of the earth of my parents, or siblings. I was completely immersed in love  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     most definitely I am more aware of my psychic gifts  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Uncertain    I am not sure if I explained this to my parents. I most certainly did after I became aware that this was a special event.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Experience was definitely real  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     A child is filled with wonder. I believe at the age of 7 years your consciousness is engaged and you are more aware. I look back on the experience and I am so thankful I was able to evolve from it.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I feel blessed to have known at an early age we are all going back home!  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       It is very in depth. Thank you for listening.           			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jeanne_k_probable_nde.html