{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jeanette_nde.html","mytitle":"Jeanette NDE 449","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jeanette NDE 449  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jeanette NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1287 Jeanette NDE 449  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was 'partying' with a friend of mine when I was seventeen. We were at the beach. I inhaled this type of gas (that has the potential I found out later of freezing your lungs instantly). I just went black. I don't even remember going out. The next think I remember is 'standing' in the middle of a vortex tunnel with a person in silhouette standing at the end of the tunnel. I would say the tunnel was approximately thirty yards. I could not see the face but he/she wore a garment that was very loose and flowing to his/her right. The tunnel was interesting because it was swirling with all pastel colors. The person at the end had their arms stretched out to me. I remember not really feeling scared, but more confused as to where I was. The last thing I remember doing is looking down to see that I was 'levitating' in this standing position, but that the tunnel was circling under my feet about ten feet down. The circumference of the tunnel I would estimate to be about (it's hard to remember) twenty feet. It was really beautiful. No words were spoken. No movement of air. No sensation of any temperature at all (neither warm nor cold). That was it. I came back and I was fine -- although a little shaken to say the least.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  February 20, 1983

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Accidental overdose  Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Inhaling CO2 cartridges.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  Parts of my body did not seem to be there. I'm not really sure if my feet were there.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Very conscious but confused.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There did not seem to be a sense of time.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No sound at all. Although there appeared to be a wind swirling the colors in the tunnel and the person's garments, I heard no wind sound either.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Did not pass through a tunnel, remained at the beginning of it.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     A person in silhouette. Could not make out any features. Wore loose garments. Especially around wrist area the garment was longer.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Bright yellowish-white light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The tunnel was beautiful. I seemed to be there only a short time.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Confusion -- but not really scared.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     This tunnel was a boundary. I imagine if I would have gone ahead I would have met the person at the end.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe we go 'somewhere' after death.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The experience. Knowing that there could definitely be a place we go after death of our bodies.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    But limited. I feel people think that I am elaborating or not telling the truth. I don't tell many people unless they have had a similar experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jeanette_nde.html