{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jeana_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Jeana B NDE 223","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jeana B NDE 223  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jeana B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1407 Jeana B NDE 223  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was involved in a terrible accident that until this day people look at me and still ask how and why I survived. I was accidently shot in the head at point blank range with a 9.0 mm gun. I live to tell about it and look and feel just as great as before the accident. There is so much to explain what happened that I don't know where to begin but I will try my best to explain to you the experience I had.

It was Saturday January 14, 1995. I had just sat down on my couch to relax a little before heading out to pick out my new dryer that was to be a gift from my friend's family. My friend had a gun that lay out on the table and to both of our knowledge the gun was not loaded. As I saw the gun, I thought to myself that he had better put it away in its carrying case, before my brother came over and sees it laying out in the open. I took the gun and placed it behind my head on the couch so when my friend came down I could just let him know that he needed to put it away. I remember talking while I was facing the TV waiting for him to respond. The next thing I knew I felt paralyzed. I felt a tremendous ring go through my head and it was as if the world stood still. My eyes were open and in my mind, I was still alert but later to find out, I was lifeless.

I knew almost instantly that I had been shot and at the same time kept thinking is this what it is like to die. My eyes stayed open as I lay there motionless. I tried so hard to let my friend know that I was still here. I tried with all my strength to lift my arms to reach out to him and let him know I wasn't dead, so I thought. Though I could see him I felt as if I had a hundred pounds worth of bricks holding my arms down but I fought with all my strength to reach out to him. I then saw myself lift up from the couch with my arms stretched out in front of me to grab for him and let him know I was still here. Everything was like slow motion. But at the same moment, all went black. I remember feeling somber and so at peace with myself. I felt so, I almost can't explain it, but I feel it now as I write this. I never saw the light but I felt my body floating up and I didn't know where I was.

The next thing I knew my sight came back again and I saw my friend on the phone calling 911 and telling the person on the line that I was female and had been shot in the head. He looked so lost and afraid. I wanted to reach out to him so bad and tell him I was all right and never felt any pain and was at peace, but I could not. Again I had thought, 'is this what it is like to die.' I thought I was going to see myself at my own funeral and actually be buried while I was in this state. Once again, I slipped into the darkness and felt so at peace with the darkness around me and actually saw the image of a hand through the darkness come at me and my soul turned around and I felt this hand push me away from behind. I truly believe this was my guardian angel. As I was turned away, I found that I was falling back at the speed of light. I had re-entered my body and felt as if I was reborn again. My body was taking its first breath and I woke up in a state of shock gasping for air and kicking the paramedics around me. I felt as if my soul had given my body life once again.

It is hard to write out exactly what happened to me during this period of unconsciousness but I can tell you that I experienced something that until this day was a miracle because I'm alive and well to talk about it. I had been in a coma state for a week after I first awoke in my home and suffered a mild stroke. I found out later that the bullet went in my right ear and came out the lower left side of my neck and re-entered through my left shoulder and exited out from under my left arm. Doctors cannot explain how I survived this ordeal, I had gone through surgery to repair my blood vessel in my neck and had a tracheotomy tube put in. The doctors said I might never talk because my vocal cord had been damaged; eat normally, stomach tube; hear through my right ear; or have full use of my right arm and face. I had also been told that because my neck was injured and two disks had fused together while healing that I may never fully turn my head again which would leave me incapable to drive. I proved the medical industry wrong. It was a miracle that I survived at all but it's a miracle to doctors, friends, and family that I'm here today just as I was before the accident. It took a lot of hard work and rehabilitation to become the person I am today. I feel as if I had this second chance because it was not my time and I was reborn again. There is so much more I would share with you about my personal experience with the hospital and how much it took to achieve where I am today. I can only hope that my story in some way will help in your research or help another with a similar story in some way.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  January 14,1995

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Clinical death   Gunshot to the head.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  When I tried to reach out to my friend. He told me I never moved once. When I was afloat also, I knew I was gone from my body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I felt as if I was in and out of consciousness and felt alert but I was told I stopped breathing and my lips were blue by the time the paramedics came.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time didn't feel like a factor. I felt as if I had nothing to worry about anymore.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I was somewhere else floating upwards but couldn't make out where I was.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I did feel the presence of another but never saw them directly. Just a hand coming toward me.

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I knew I was going somewhere but couldn't make out where.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Very overwhelming feelings of my surroundings and with myself.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I just know I was willing to accept where I was going.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I attend church now more often than I did before and truly believe in angels.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

   
  After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Knowing that prayers from family, friends and other people I didn't know may have helped me achieve where I am today.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I feel as if I should be speaking of my accident and hope that it will help others understand what they may be going through. It helped me in a way to talk about it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I can't express enough to people that where we may go after death is not a bad place per my experience.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jeana_b_nde.html