{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jean_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Jean T NDE 1005","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jean T NDE 1005  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jean T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						445  Jean T NDE  1005  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I am aware on the operating table very stressed they sedate me with mask and injection, I am anesthetized. Instead of having a blackout, I keep hearing voices, so the product has no effect. Then I hear the medics start to panic about my state, it is then that I realize I am dead. I am intimately convinced, what I hear that it is not my ears that hear. I am anesthetized, but it is 'me'. I start to move away from the agitation. I am not okay, no visual sensation, but have the impression of floating in the air. It is dark, I do not see. Something that I call the collective mind, in which all the good of humanity lives forever, shows me my life and makes me understand that I have not accomplished anything good, only egoism governs my life. Thereupon that spirit projects me into the future, fifteen or twenty years further, and shows me what the life of those around me is, due to me, yet without me. I am dead for twenty years and the moment that I live is from the now and not a vision of the future. Next, the spirit makes me understand that they are giving me a second chance and that I have to do good. They send me back telling me that I have to guide my son until he is grown up. My mission and to do good the spirit gives me the real meaning of the word doing good. Then I wake up, it takes some minutes on the operating table. I have not been operated on, I look up the time on the clock in the operation room, two hours have gone by then this time a fall asleep again and wake up having been operated on.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    Janvier 2003

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No   Surgery-relatedAllergic reaction     bloc operatoire accident anesthésique avant opération  mineur de la main</br>

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Apparently I was as always floating, no weight.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Complete.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I found myself in the future twenty years later.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Uncertain     A spirit regroups everything, all the thoughts, and a kind of collective entity where everybody exists.

The experience included:      Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     See main narrative.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Indescribable knowledge that goes beyond words, what is good survives eternally. I have learned to see the difference between 'good' according to mankind and the 'good' according to spirit.

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I am on earth to do good.

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     My future life and my death.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   The spirit sent me back to achieve a specific task while taking advantage of the knowledge of collective consciousness.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   aucune appartance religieuse, pure darwiniste avant expérience

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     First I was a non-believer in an afterlife with fear of death, no longer.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Words are too shallow to describe what I really experienced.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Negative: terrible sensation of judgment, judgment of my earlier life as negative, possibility of eternal suffering. Positive: The willingness of the 'spirit' to give me a second chance.  The feeling of having received a favor, I have understood the meaning of my life!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    No    I think one will not believe me!

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Did people want to come back or to stay where they were?

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jean_t_nde.html