{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jean_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Jean R NDE 280","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jean R NDE 280  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jean R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1384 Jean R NDE 280  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I suddenly was aware I was a spirit looking down at my body. The relatives in the room were arguing over who could comb my hair. My mother sat quietly in a chair. My grandfather was talking to someone who appeared to be God but it was actually only light. I could not see God but I could hear his voice. My grandfather was asking God to let me stay with him. I was a good person. My grandfather's pet boxer was with him on a leash. I could feel the love between the dog and my grandfather. God reviewed my life. I felt some fear as I felt I was being judged and was not good enough for God. God told me I did something good that pleased him and seemed to try to ease my fears. It was something about helping a boy child in some way. God appeared only as a light and an authoritative voice. I could not see him. Afterwards he asked me if I wanted to stay or go back. I thought for a second and was given a vision of the future wherein my mother would get cancer. I felt in my heart that she would need me as I told God nobody would be there to help her. At that point, I returned to my body.

My mother did get breast and cancer, and of the uterus later on, and I was her main support. That was probably fifteen years ago.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1984

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Suicide attempt     in coma on llife-support  In comma due to overdose -- on life support. Family told to prepare for my death. Given last rites.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Unconscious.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Grandfather and God were talking though.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Grandfather, his dog, and the light of God.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Definitely there is a spiritual level that brings us to the dimension I reached, and surely there are other levels.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Fear, awe, surprise.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I did not know such an experience could happen. Yes, it assured me there is an afterlife, we will be judged, and God does love us, but we must try to do our best to live the life that is pleasing in his eyes. Yes, the most important part of earthly life is your relationship with God, and his people.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Very accurate. I visioned my mother getting cancer. She did get it and I was her sole support, as I felt I would be.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   See narrative.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     It proved the afterlife is very real and we should be prepared.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No     I, as a child, had an ability to foresee occurrences of my life in the future which always happen as I see it. They usually are bad experiences which I cannot seem to change.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Fear of being judged and not knowing if God would accept me. God talking to me and reassuring me everything will be okay. God sharing the future with me and sending me back, as if it were my decision, but the one God knew I would choose.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    As a faith sharing experience. It reassures people of the afterlife, and judgment and love.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It only reminds me, God is so powerful and so real.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jean_r_nde.html