{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jean_k_other.html","mytitle":"Jean K Other21827","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jean K Other21827  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jean K Other  					  					  						Home  						Classification Other  						1646 Jean K Other 21827  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					We always went to my Mother's and help prepare holiday dinner. I was standing against the door going into the kitchen, just talking and laughing with everyone in the kitchen. I saw myself on the other side of the room sitting on the steps, peeling potatoes and talking and laughing, but I could not hear what I was saying and all I could do was point at myself. Of course, everyone laughed and said yea right, but I could not explain it. I didn't know why or how. Only how strange I felt at the time. Everyone laughed it off and I though no more about it until about hour later. I was actually sitting on the steps peeling potatoes, and it was as if I felt a shock, jolt and I realized that where I was, what I had seen an hour earlier. It just happened.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1978 was the first

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    Happiness   Holiday at my families house and we were preparing dinner

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Great, I was very alert.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No     I could only point.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Amazed, I guess.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I didn't know until later when I realized where I was and was like shocked. It was just the wired feeling.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I always felt as if I'm a round peg trying to fit in a square hole.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The feeling was like elation, absence, disbelief and an ‘Oh my god!’ How could I see myself on the other side of a room, doing something completing different that was I was currently doing.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I knew in July that our dog would die Christmas morning. I was washing dishes and she ran by the window and when I saw her I knew, I actually said ‘God you wouldn't take the dog and on Christmas morning. She died Christmas morning of a heart attack in my husband arms at the vet's office.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The only down was the disbelief of others.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They laughed.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       It is a good questionnaire, it just that there is no way to prove an out of body experience until, you can bring something back with you, and something tells me that is possible, I just don't know how yet.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jean_k_other.html