{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jean_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Jean K NDE 3063","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jean K NDE 3063  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jean K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1095  Jean K NDE  3063  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was at a local state park lake with Douglas, my four year old son and a girl friend of mine. I was walking back to our blanket and felt like I was gliding down to it - maybe passing out. Then my mind was blank. Then I remembered a man carrying me up to the medical building, then going blank again. I felt being laid down on a hard bed and someone's voice asking if I was with anyone. I guess my son had followed me and told them my friend was with me. Then I went blank again but I heard everyone talking. Mentally I was trying to talk to them to say I was okay but, I couldn't talk there was no voice. I felt as if the air/sky around me was a beautiful, light blue and so very clear, no clouds. I then heard someone say, 'I can't feel her pulse and there is no heartbeat.' And, then I heard a girl's voice say the same thing. During this time, I was trying to tell them that I was really okay but, yet I wasn't in the same level as they were. I felt my body move up to a sitting position and saw a beautiful light or brightness in the sky and I felt so good and safe. Then next thing I remember was being in an ambulance and the medics trying to give me oxygen, then it seemed like a few minutes later I was awake. Years later in life I had taken a course 'Death and Dying' for college, it was taught by Sister M. I told her about my experience and her knowing Elizabeth Kubler Ross had me write down what had happen. Elizabeth confirmed that I had a near death experience.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1971

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No     Thought I might have fainted  Other 'Was swimming in state park lake, feeling really good'.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   Before I thought I might be fainting.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Before I thought I might be fainting.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    Not sure if I understand the question.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Not sure, I think I felt like I was dreaming.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   'Was brought up as a Catholic but, did not believe in it's ways'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      No

What is your religion now?      Moderate   I believe in the Native American Indian way as I always have

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  Yes, for the better but I really can't put it into words and it depends on who the relationship is with and what their beliefs are.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   I could explain it very clearly but, because of the times, people would think I was just dreaming or just didn't believe in near death experiences.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    Yes

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was probably real.     I did not understand why this happened to me and for what reason. Was this some type of message being sent to me that I wasn't understanding.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I have the gift of seeing/talking to spirits. I can scan a person's body and sometimes accurately tell you what is medically wrong with people - but can't cure them. I have had strangers come up to me and ask if I do readings. I would like to learn and use my gifts to help others remove pain from their lives.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jean_k_nde.html