{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jc_s_nde.html","mytitle":"JC S NDE 189","mylang":"de"}
          	        JC S NDE 189  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					JC S NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1431 JC S NDE 189  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					As I lay in the emergency room, I hovered over my body looking down at myself. After realizing I was out of my body, I became about five years old and floated straight up to heaven, where I walked on huge red roses that gave off an incredible scent. There was Jesus standing there about one hundred feet tall, with his right arm extended. He was glowing, with long brown hair, copper skin, and a long white robe. The feeling of love and being home was awesome. I reached up and put my hand in his. We spoke with our minds and he gave me a guided tour of heaven. The colors were awesome, peace, love, and beauty. As we walked, I turned to look back for my grandmother, and my dog Rusty, who I did not see. As I turned to look forward there was a sheer curtain, with people standing there as far as far as the eye could see. Then I heard God say, you have to go back. I begged him to let me stay, but he repeated, you have to go back. After seven days in a coma, I regained consciousness back into this world. What a rude awakening.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1974

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?    Suicide attempt    Clinical death   Attempted suicide.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I saw myself as five years old, as a tiny little girl.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was not conscious of this world at all, only the other side.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time didn't exist.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Jesus speaking to me, the feeling of coming home was what I have been waiting for.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I met Jesus and he welcomed me to heaven. I saw other beings too, see main narrative.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Heaven, as far as the eye could see, no boundaries. Colors were awesome, beyond description. It made the colors of the earth, black and white.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Heavenly bliss, not wanting it to end.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   God told me I had to go back.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     After several years my attitude became positive, and my belief in Jesus magnified. I learned that I am truly loved, and I am here to do God's work.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It's beyond words to describe.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Going to my true home, and the worst was coming back to this world.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Most people were influenced in a positive way. However some didn't believe me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I had several out of body experiences. Prior to this experience, I saw the Blessed Mother three times in the 1960s. Following the experience, Marilyn Monroe came to me and stopped me from attempting suicide. While on the bus, carrying four hundred downers (drug pills), I jumped up to get off at the wrong stop, where I once lived, and was very upset. As I opened the back doors I saw a black and yellow bus stop sign and realized that I was getting off were I used to live. I sat down in a different seat and in the chair next to me was the cover of the book Norma Jean Baker, the story of Marilyn Monroe. As I look up, there was Marilyn Monroe boarding the bus in full color. Her blonde hair was all tossed with curls. She had on a purple terrycloth robe that reached down to the floor. She walked up to me, looked at me, and sat down next to me. I realized no one else could see her. I got up to get off and she followed me to my apartment. We sat down, she looked very sad. Finally, she said to me, 'If you do this you will regret it for eternity.' She said, 'I want to come back but I can't.' Again, she repeated, 'If you do this, you will regret it for eternity.' Then she got up, left, and walked right through the door, and I got on my knees and started sobbing. God spoke to me then saying, when I call for you, that's when you come to me. I then flushed the four hundred downers down the toilet. This experience made me realize that Marilyn's life and mine were very similar in many ways.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Can't wait to go home to Jesus.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       This questionnaire was very well prepared. Thank you for making this available.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jc_s_nde.html