{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jb_rene_a_nde.html","mytitle":"JB Rene A NDE 6739","mylang":"de"}
          	        JB Rene A NDE 6739  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					JB Rene A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3356 JB Rene A NDE 6739  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was 8 am on June 1, 2011. I was driving my wife to her office when suddenly I felt some unfamiliar discomfort in my mid rib and tummy area. We decided to drop by the hospital, which was along our way for a medical checkup. As I was in the outpatient dept. of the emergency room, a nurse was taking my vital signs. Then I passed out. My heart stopped. I had no pulse, dilated pupils, or anything. I was clinically dead. The team of medical interns on duty tried to revive my heart. It is at this point my near death experience starts.

I saw a light, an extremely bright light, radiating various dominant colors of white, gold, orange, and yellow. I began to feel comfortable with the presence of the light now. It became my companion as we traveled a very vast green meadow. As we traveled further, I sensed there was a festival along the far horizon. I couldn’t hear sounds. I could only sense what was happening. I felt joy. My whole being was so peaceful. I didn’t even know what pain and sorrow were anymore.  I didn’t have the correct adjective to describe what I felt. The light started a ‘conversation’ with me. It wasn’t audible but I could understand the words he was saying. He was speaking to me through my mind. I can still clearly remember his words. 

‘Be humble. Say this words three times. Pray as simple and short as you will. ‘Have mercy on me, a sinner.’‘ From there I heard some clanging sounds and some voices. I opened my eyes. I saw humans wearing white robes. It was the team of doctors and nurses in front of me. One of the doctors was still holding the defibrillator machine. After eight rounds of electric voltage to revive my heart, it was successful. I could feel pains on my chest, my ribs; my whole body was in pain. I felt so thirsty and hungry. I was looking for my wife. The first word I uttered was, 'what time is it?' I spent fourteen days at the intensive care unit. I realized, that pains, thirst, and hunger, are part of life. Part of being alive. 

I’m back to life, my second life, but this does not the end of the story. This is just a beginning of a new chapter.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'June 1, 2011'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack. CPR given    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I had a family history of cardio-related illness.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  During the time my physical body was undergoing some medical procedures to revive me, my ‘other’ self roamed around the hospital. I ‘recalled ‘I went upstairs at the intensive care unit and was able to see the color green of the nurses, the orange curtains, and was even greetings the patients. This event seems blurred in my memory now.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I felt I was not my own self. I became part of the light.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       After three days in the intensive care unit.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Events go so fast. What I wrote here were the ones I was able to recall. Some events were ‘deleted’ from my memory.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Until now, I still asked myself what was the real purpose? Why I was already there but I came back to my old material self.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    During the experience I didn’t hear any audible sounds. All communications were coursed through my ‘mind’.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My deceased mother.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was like the sun, but I could look at it directly as it radiates various dominant colors of white, gold, yellow, orange, and more.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Unexplainable. Who can ever describe a heavenly place called paradise in our own layman's language?

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I became more conscious of my spirituality.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I felt so humbled.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   had occasionally doubts about my faith particularly soul and heaven.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I tend to believe other faiths too. Because nobody ‘up there’ asked me what religion I belong to.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     once I have a place I normally call HEAVEN...now i fondly call it HOME.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I don't value much material things anymore.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     HE "spoke" to me through the LIGH...I can feel His omnipotent presence.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     read in books and internet informations only.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists┬

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     was able to made research in the internet on the NDE subjects...me myself dont have a specific answers as of this moment.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     pains and sorrows,etc.were part of life and being alive.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     the presence of the LIGHT I can feel an unconditional LOVE.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     My spiritual faith deepened.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I can’t find the right adjective to describe the feelings, the different dimension I experienced. Never on earth can anyone experience such phenomena.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I was repeatedly interviewed by everyone I met here and I told the same testimony repeatedly over and over...and its so vivid and accurate and question about its accuracy.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I usually have a good silent intuition now.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        My close encounter with the light.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I was interviewed on the local radio.  I shared it on my facebook page.  I have a page created by a friend featuring my own near death experience. https://www.facebook.com/neardeathexperiencewelcometothelight

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Definitely real, or else I wouldn’t waste my time filling up this very long survey form.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   Not sure enough about it to elaborate here right now.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       The questionnaire is too long. You can make this as brief but precise as possible so as not to complicate things.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jb_rene_a_nde.html