{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jayne_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Jayne S NDE 7610","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jayne S NDE 7610  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jayne S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3903 Jayne S NDE 7610  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had a profound near death experience 41 years ago when I was age 19. I am now 60. I was a street kid who had been pushed out of home. I'd had lots of bad experiences as a child and there was nobody I could turn to. I was slipping further into bad company. The life I was leading was going nowhere except downhill. I could see no way forward and I felt hopeless. I was in so much emotional pain that I had to do something to end my nightmare, so I attempted suicide. 

I heard a loud bang as if heavy doors were slamming shut behind me and I felt such a great sense of relief. Then I felt I was bubbles, popping like effervescence in lemonade, and I was stretching for millions of miles. The further I stretched, the less bubbling I felt. I went on forever. I would compare it to being like I was a raindrop returning to and becoming conscious of the fullness and expanse of the ocean only on a much larger scale. Love was all around, peace, and blissful-joy. I felt myself moving forward and after travelling faster than light. I thought, ‘This is further than our galaxy!’ I questioned, ‘How come I don’t feel afraid?’ I went to look at my stomach where I expected to feel fear but I saw nothing and it didn’t matter. I continued to move forward, in this amazing peace, joy and love at increasing speed. 

Then suddenly in my mind and every single cell in my being, I went through this explosive, orgasmic, glorious intelligence and power. It was astounding; words cannot describe the beauty, glory and power of that intelligence, energy and bliss. Moving through that into a place where the love was so magnified was awesome. I heard the sound of singing. It was unimaginably beautiful. There were no words or voices, but musical tones that sounded like angels singing. I moved past crowds of beings so fast, I couldn’t see anyone clearly. I just heard the sound of moving past assemblies of energy people.  Then there was a flash of quiet space, more crowds of people, then quiet again.  This happened rapidly and repeatedly. I was whizzing by so fast that all I could hear was what sounded like low, mumbled voices. 

In a split second I came to a place where there were lots of rainbows. I saw an energy-person express shock as it realize I was arriving. Then it was as if I was in a spiral or vortex, twisting downwards for 3 turns. I heard a deep, prolonged voice say, ‘TEACH’ only it sounded like ‘t-e-e-e-a-a-a-c-c-c-h-h-h…’. 

A week later, I awoke in hospital. I believe I was shown my true identity in Spirit, moving through perfect love to go through Divine and Holy intelligence and power.  I had no fear.  It is our brain that engenders fear through our thoughts, like we are biological computers.  Heaven is real.  The things that are eternal are the only real things; like love, peace, and joy. It was an awesome experience. I was returned to my body with a divine purpose 'to teach'. Sixteen years later with my three autistic sons and my marriage braking up, I studied to become a teacher and have never looked back! My 3 sons' behavior was crazy and they each spent a lot of times in juvenile detention centers. They are still abusive towards me but I distance myself from them. I have had some amazing adventures teaching. 

Bringing up my sons on my own was very difficult but the knowledge of spiritual life gave me strength to persevere. I learned about unconditional love and self-preservation. When they left home, I taught Australian Aboriginal kids, in far north South Australia and on Indigenous communities. I continue to teach how our thoughts lead to our feelings which determine our behavior. I also teach kids how to replace their negative thoughts with positive ones and have had numerous difficult students change their behaviors for the better. I was also prompted, niggled and persistently pushed by an inner voice to continue to study and now have several degrees; Masters in Educational Psychology and post graduate certificates for gifted education, and neuroscience learning. I am now an Aboriginal Education Teacher in the metropolitan area but my journeys have given me great insight into Indigenous culture so that I can be effective in my work. I have a great sense of spiritual belonging and know that life in the physical is only temporary, like a spot in eternity, and I will return to Heaven, which is my home. Such peace, joy and love in Spirit are immeasurable and I feel so blessed to have had that experience.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  September 1973

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Suicide attempt.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I attempted suicide from medication. I was a street kid. I was not wanted by my parents. I came from a home where there was a lot of domestic violence and child neglect and abuse. I was working as a nude model which I hated so I took drugs to overcome my inhibitions. I became promiscuous. I hated myself and my life. I had nothing for which to live. I could see no future except drug addiction and maybe even prostitution.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  I lost awareness of my body  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Intelligence was more of on a cellular level: that my body was part of a much bigger whole and every cell had intelligence.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Immediately and continuously.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I became aware of infinity. There is no time. This physical life is like a dream and cannot be compared to infinity. It is so short and temporary like a microscopic dot in the vastness of eternity.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Vision was not with eyesight but more mindful and holistic.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard nothing, no sound at all until I heard angels singing and then it was ecstatic.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   When I passed through infinite intelligence and power, I believe it was much lighter than where I had been moving through to get there but it was so explosive that I was caught unaware of anything except the bliss and power that charged every cell in my being and then calmer but denser love, joy, and peace.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Passing through Divine and Holy Omnipotence and Omniscience into a place where the love was magnified immeasurably. There were many crowds of beings in this place that I passed through when I came to where there were many rainbows. The rainbows were being looked after or guarded by one particular energy being who was shocked to see me and I think it was that being's voice I heard saying 'teach’ when I was returning to my body.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Bliss, love, indescribable joy, peace, safety, being loved, having my being in love, blessed.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Heaven is real, we are made in the image and likeness of God because we are spiritual beings, and we live and move and have our being in Him, which is love. This life is like a dream and the things that are real are the things that are eternal. Nothing on earth matters except love. Love is all that matters because we are love and we have to express ourselves as love.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian   I was brought up as Christian, going to Sunday School as a child. But days before this event, I had been approached on the street by Bible Bashers and I had said to them that God doesn't exist. At that time I really did believe there was no God. Since my experience, I have no doubt and am utterly convinced that God and Heaven are real and the true reality.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     No doubt in my mind, God is real.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   I pray all the time. I receive guidance. Perfect love flows through me. I have had some amazing lessons in the classroom where the students have been really switched on and I have felt amazing power in the room. I deal a lot with dysfunctional students and we have circle time to problem solve and sort out issues. I have always felt a higher power's calming presence settling over the students. when I've studied and been synthesising information to write an essay, I get so high it is like being back in the spiritual place where I was in my NDE.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I was denying God days previously. I was IN God during my experience.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     A very strong belief in God, spirituality, Heaven and the power of our thoughts.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I heard angels singing in musical tones not voices. I heard mumblings from crowds of beings I was moving past rapidly. I heard the instruction to teach as I returned to my body.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     Before this experience I did NOT believe in God. Now I know without any doubt that God exists. God is real. He is love and Heaven exists and this physical life is like a dream. We have the creative power to redefine our physical life through the thoughts we think. We have control over our attitude and our beliefs.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     We are spiritual beings having a physical experience. We live and move and have our being in Divine, Holy Spirit. God flows through us if we ask Him to. He cannot be separated from us we can only turn our backs on Him.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God does not exist

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Omnipotence, Omniscience, immeasurable and infinite unconditional love, peace and joy. Holy and Divine, eternal truth.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   A special knowledge of the truth.  To teach is my divine purpose.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     For me personally it was to teach.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife does not exist

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     We come from this heavenly realm. We are dreaming our physical existence. We return to spirit. There is no death.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Uncertain     I thin the rainbows were where we beings were 'sleeping it was as if I was returning to them but was prevented and sent back to physical.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     They are only temporary and we have the strength to overcome.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Not compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love is true eternal divine holy spirit. Love is all that matters. Love is unconditional and eternal.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life. Deep and abiding spirituality, a knowing that God loves me immeasurable and infinitely and nothing and no one can separate me from the love of God. I pray a lot and feel blessed. I often feel like God is working/teaching through me. I was a street kid. I was told to teach and am now a teacher with several post graduate studies behind me. I've been on Indigenous communities and feel that my life is being directed. I also have several properties that have just fallen into place from following the directives from within me.     Large changes in my life. Deep and abiding spirituality, a knowing that God loves me immeasurable and infinitely and nothing and no one can separate me from the love of God. I pray a lot and feel blessed. I often feel like God is working/teaching through me. I was a street kid. I was told to teach and am now a teacher with several post graduate studies behind me. I've been on Indigenous communities and feel that my life is being directed. I also have several properties that have just fallen into place from following the directives from within me.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I had no fear. Perfect love has no room for fear. It is our brain that determines our thinking that creates fear. Our brain is like a biological computer. We are the spirit that resides inside this biological computer.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    People dismiss it. They hear me but then never talk about it again. I have been told not to discuss it or people will think I am crazy.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I felt I had been kicked out of heaven. That God didn't want me. I believed the being that sent me back was shocked to 'see' me therefore I had not been monitored... I later came to believe that it was God who rescued me from myself and that He was monitoring me and wanted me to know my true identity and purpose and that He loved me unconditionally.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It has defined who I am today and my relationship with God.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Writing an essay on the neuro-biology of the ear I was back in that experience. I was so high and excited it was better than an orgasm.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It has made me feel like I don't belong anywhere on earth because I have such a different perception of life. No one understands how significant my experience was. They try to make excuses for why it happened.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jayne_s_nde.html