{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jayne_j_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Jayne J Probable NDE 9494","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jayne J Probable NDE 9494  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jayne J Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						5108 Jayne J Probable NDE 9494  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I was undergoing aneurysm surgery. The surgeon didn’t realize he had cut out the other side of the artery. Nothing was noticed until I was in recovery when I awoke in horrendous pain. I was rushed back to surgery. I awoke again in intense pain with massive internal bleeding, so they took me back to surgery for a second attempt to repair the damage. 

  I found myself in a very dark place, but with a bright light coming from underneath me.  I could see the edge of a bed or platform slightly lit by the light. I suddenly thought, 'Oh, I’m dying.' I realized that I felt ok with dying. I was very calm and wasn't afraid. Suddenly, I was worried who would tell my daughter and son that I was ok with dying. I was moving towards the end of the tunnel and knew that reaching the end meant death for me. 

I woke up.  I thought about my experience and how it was very vivid and not like being in a dreamlike state. I immediately started to make drawings of the experience. There were no god-like figures, just an amazing serenity.  
  
Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 February 2020  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related       Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   Femoral artery damaged caused me to bleed out.  
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing  

  Did you feel separated from your body?    No.    I lost awareness of my body  
  
  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness.   It wasn’t any different  from my waking consciousness
  
At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole time  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

  Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual.     Time was slower.  
  
Were your senses More vivid than usual?       No  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The same  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don’t remember hearing anything  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

  Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes.     I was moving slowly through the tunnel but stopped after considering my concerns.  
  
Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain     

  Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place.     I knew I was moving through a tunnel  
  
  What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt serenity and then concern.  
  
Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

  Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life.   I was worried that my children would not know that I was ok with dying  
  
God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Atheist     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Atheist     

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience       

  Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain.     I’m now confused.  
  
Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            No       

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life       

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Immediately I was awake and able to speak  

  Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   General knowledge of what NDE is.
  
  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     It was not a dream and was most definitely real  
  
  What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.  I   think about it often  
  
At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       My experience is mixed up with PTSD as I was wide awake and aware of the severity of the situation         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jayne_j_probable_nde.html