{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jawad_nde.html","mytitle":"Jawad NDE 2573","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jawad NDE 2573  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jawad NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						875  Jawad NDE  2573  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  In the name of God Most gracious and Most Merciful.

(The statement above is always recited by the Muslims before saying or doing something.)

In short, I was learning how to swim.  I tried to do an exercise at the depth of four meters, but I was not successful, and I sank to the bottom of the swimming pool.  I couldn't hold my breath for long time.  I started thinking about death...  I surrendered totally and raised my hand stretching out my finger in order to recite the testimony silently in my heart.  I saw nothing but a darkness and I felt a strange stillness despite that critical situation....

I began to move myself to the surface pressing the bottom with my feet; I made three unsuccessful and consecutive attempts to escape until I was saved by one of the brothers.

Stillness... darkness... understanding the true meaning of the death.

(The testimony or witness, in Arabic the SHAHADAH it is the first pillar of Islam the Muslims say it to declare their faith at the moment of dying: THERE IS NO GOD BUT ALLAH, MUHAMMAD IS THE MESSENGER OF ALLAH).

NB: (the Muslims are used to call their fellow men brothers as mentioned in the description.)

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 2001  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.  Accident         Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Total consciousness.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I saw the darkness and felt the great stillness.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I didn’t hear the sound of water.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Dark surroundings.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control     As I am a foreigner (from Jordan), I thought about my parents my mother and father.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     I am Muslim, in my point of view, death can surprise us at any time and it has been created by God to test our good acts.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     I am Muslim, in my point of view, death can surprise us at any time and it has been created by God to test our good acts.    

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Out of body experience.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I truly understood how the soul leaves the body, and how can our previous acts facilitate or complicate this process.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I suggest that you add the testimonies of those who accompany the people who are dying like the cancerous.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jawad_nde.html