{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jasun_e_nde.html","mytitle":"Jasun E NDE 2548","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jasun E NDE 2548  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jasun E NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						818  Jasun E NDE  2548  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

I had asked the nurse who was injection me with the dye for the kidney x-ray to make sure my kidney was okay to donate to my brother that was having kidney failure. The nurse said we only inject people with half first to see if they have an allergic reaction. I could feel the serum like a warm track going right to my heart and I knew I was having a reaction. I felt a pain in my heart. I no longer could move anything or say anything. I heard the nurse scream and push a button on the wall - code red or blue?

I felt the nurses and doctors trying to revive me. They had put the paddles on me twice but my heart did not start. Then the doctor climbed onto my body, took a large needle, thrust it into my chest, and pushed the plug down - I then felt my heart start up.

The amazing thing was I was outside of my body looking at myself. The first thing that happened when I realized I couldn't speak was that I could not blink my eyes. The color went out of everything and turned to black and white then I was outside of my body looking at myself. I felt like my life had flashed before me. I was at peace and no pain. When my heart started up I could feel myself go back into my body. I went into a coma and didn't wake up for days.

This was the second time I had this happen to me, the first time I had cut my arm and I had lost all my blood and my heart stopped, I was brought back to life when they gave me blood. I was hovering over my body. The only thing I remember is when I came back into my body. When the doctor had the nurse check my eyes and I heard the doctor say, 'Is he dead yet?'

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 April 1996  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-relatedAllergic reaction     IVP Dye injection test for donation of my kidney for my brother. I had allergic reaction to the Dye injection before the Kidney X-ray.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I felt a connection with everything. Intensity like I have never experienced. After this experience I have never been afraid of dying.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was watching the doctors and nurses trying to revive me. I didn't feel any urgency to return to my body. I felt everything was going to be alright.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual     Felt like everything had slowed down like a moment was hours then everything sped up I do not remember anything when I was brought back to life. I cannot remember anything for weeks after.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was in color but after my heart stopped everything went to black and white.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing increased I felt like I could hear a pin drop miles away, my hearing and perception have increased.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     A gap in time like I went from lying on the exam table, to standing next to my body, to hovering over myself, to instantly inside myself.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw an older man in robes; he was very cold looking no expression on his face. I was scared at first then I relaxed and he was gone.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   When I first lost my heartbeat I tried to blink my eyes and then I noticed I couldn't blink then the color went out of everything and turned to black and white. Then little white spots came at me like I was flying in space. Then a zap of a white light and I then was next to myself. I could plainly see myself.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calmness, joy, excitement. Like I have been born to another dimension.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Remembered many past events     Realized that life as we see and feel it was not exactly how things are. There is another part to this world we cannot explain.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From the world's future        One hundred percent.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Brought up Lutheran and Catholic  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Believe more in things I didn't believe in before, psychic abilities.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Spiritual  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Believe more in things I didn't believe in before, psychic abilities.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Everything has a plan a purpose and a time. If the time is not right nothing you can do will change anything.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes More direct and forgiving.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Out of body experience hard to believe and explain, so many emotions and feeling at the same time.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Ability to look at people and tell what type of person they are and a better intuition about people and things that will happen.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The experience of calmness and no worries.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    If I tell anyone about this experience they find it hard to believe.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Let me know there's more to life than what we think is normal.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Part of life growing experience.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       More research is needed to help people who have experienced this so it is not such an unbelievable thing to explain to people.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Photos of the places that these experiences happened, movie reenactments for a reality show, to help people understand it's not abnormal.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jasun_e_nde.html