{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jason_dh_nde.html","mytitle":"Jason DH NDE 724","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jason DH NDE 724  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jason DH NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1274 Jason DH NDE 724  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I died. I went HOME. I talked to my guardian. I came back.

(I've completed the rest of this questionnaire it is after 8:00 am and I have not been to bed yet. Will do a more extensive account later, but most of what would be in here is scattered over the other questions. I live on one to three hours of sleep since the incident, two is a good amount. I notice the more 'on path' I am the less sleep I need. But if I don't get to bed by 9:00 am the whole idea passes until two or three in the next morning, sometimes I can do a half hour to an hour 'nap' in the afternoon, hum.)

Background Information:

Date NDE Occurred:	  February 15, 1986

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Criminal attack  hospital records show suicide. however, it was a murder attempt by the woman I was with (I could not stay in Las Cruces, which would have been necessary to press charges).   proclaimed dead. disconnected. toe-tagged and morgue readied. death certificate done. waiting for morgue to pick up body. Not sure how I was long dead. The attending doctors took a 20 minute coffee break after morgue reading me, I returned after they got back.

  The woman I was with was attempting to murder me through a mass of pills of all types being shoved down my throat. I was physically restrained in a motel when my screams and pounding were responded to I was released long enough to get to the door and run to a phone for help. I lost consciousness in the ambulance. I was pronounced dead several hours later.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Total, more there than here.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     To me this is a very funny question, ho-ho! I admire your sense of humor.  You DO realize time is a convenience of this Universe.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain.     I am not sure of the context of the question. I was immediately at HOME. There was NO trip, or going through anything.

  AT HOME, I saw thousands of people that were, or are, or will be, of earth.

  The first row of people I knew, behind each person stood the people that person touched in a way that helped them get home. Behind each of those people stood the people, they touch in a way that helps them home. They all, each one, were giving me greetings and love, I spoke to each person in the front row.

  I was very happy to see each one and remember the time we touched on earth, it was so good to see they made it. They, each one as I greeted and was greeted told me of the goodness they had and introduced me to the ones they brought, etc.

  AT HOME there were many that belonged there that I saw.

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     HOME. I went home! There is nothing more beautiful or distinctive!

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Not sure how to answer as I came into this life with more conscious memory than most. The love, pure love, it is in each of us. It never goes away; we only close our eyes to it. This love bonds, b-o-n-d-s, us to each and every one of us, we are related siblings of the creator's love, yet it is up to each one of us to look with love on each and everyone we meet - letting them know they are your sibling through word, action or deed - touch them, encourage them, this is the 'all there is time for' in all of life on this planet.  There are truly no coincidences; your guardian is always with you, and writing it down.  In short, the Beatles had it right - 'All there is, is love.' Our job is the seeding, care, spreading, giving, receiving, and encouraging of love in all we do say think meet in all things and animals and people.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I had no 'Events Review' as I have heard others describe.

  There were two events that I don't think are the big review.

  The greeting was by people of my past, those people told me of what transpired as a consequence to our meeting on earth.

  My GUARDIAN and I had a long talk, it was very serious and in the end, as usual, he got me to do what he wanted (which we both knew was the best thing).

  But let me be clear it was my choice to come back ONLY BECAUSE: I had been assured that this is my last time here. He had my book of life with him and we sat at a table with my book on the table, the writing went back to front, like Hebrew, he held up a few pages on the top saying, 'This is Jason you have only this much to finish then you can come home to stay, your book is finished.' Then he went on to tell me of something I still need to do (which I was not allowed to remember). He told me of great benefit and need that caused the one more thing to do to be instilled in me as so needed for mankind that, of course, I would come back to do that one more thing before returning to stay.

  Yes! I learned this is my last trip here, that makes anything a snap!

  Going home in and of itself was not a new experience, I came into this life remembering both my last lifetime and the in between time. Those events I was able in this lifetime to verify, that is, I was able to verify my past life and the events that happened after my last lifetime here that the daughter of one of my parish told me of in the in between time.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I was not allowed to remember. But, I came back for a specific purpose. I do know that what I am now doing I would have come back in a hot minute to do had it been presented to me. What I am now doing has the potential to alter completely health care worldwide, giving health accessibility to all, including the third world. Even in the absence of electrical power, the units can be constructed to run on solar only. So now, you tell me I do not know. I thought I might have come back to discover the moon rings of earthquakes, which is in manuscript form at this time, and being able to know where and of what magnitude an earthquake is going to be the night before is an important discovery - it pales when compared to total health for all peoples. So today, I'm thinking the machine is why I came back. If the earthquake moon rings become common knowledge in the process then that will be a plus.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   See above.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I have come to wonder if 'Earth Languages' were created in such a way as to make it impossible to communicate truly the experience. Maybe.  When I say 'Love from Creator', 'Love Binds Us', I feel like I am holding a child's play bucket and filling it with sand I am trying to show you the beauty of all the oceans. We have no words.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I have a great feeling for/with rocks, gems, crystals their vibrations and energy flow. I don't know if it is related, but, it is a very much needed talent with the production of the wellness machines. Was I given this so that I could help with the machines? Or is it a process that time develops? I do now have a great feeling of power go through me when I am praying, not my power, the creator's power using my willingness as a conduit to spread the love.

  I have always had many special gifts, my long time, other lifetimes; memory was intact when I started this lifetime so those things are not from the event.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The reaction has been that they find a firmer footing on the good red road home. Love is like measles, stick around and you will catch it. I share what has happened, then let them take it from there, when they can have their feather (their way to communicate with creator) and realize it is okay - I'm not looking to change the feather it is amazingly beautiful to watch them grow.

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?       Uncertain

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       This sounds like a question to add: have your physical needs changed since the experience.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jason_dh_nde.html