{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jaqueline_nde.html","mytitle":"Jaqueline NDE 3501","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jaqueline NDE 3501  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jaqueline NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1594 Jaqueline NDE 3501  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was Friday, the 2nd of March of 2007 at 2:00 pm. I asked my husband to take me to the emergency room because I felt that my chest was very congested and I needed to eject whatever I felt was 'stunting' my chest, which did not let me breathe deeply. I also told my husband and my eighteen year old daughter that I only wanted them to look at me in emergency so that they might give me an antibiotic, and then I might return home in time to pick up my other two daughters who were about to leave school. I told my eldest eighteen-year-old daughter to take very good care of my one-year-old son and that I wouldn't be late. Additionally, I took my cell phone to keep her informed.

I arrived at the hospital and my husband left me to do something he'd been charged to do, so that I was left all alone. I passed into the room where they ask you questions and where they perform the blood pressure exam and all the basics. Immediately they passed me to the back of the emergency room without having to wait, which provided me with much relief. I said, 'Wow! I'd like it to always be like this when someone goes to the emergency room.' Well, they sat me down in a chair in the hallway as they were waiting for an empty stretcher. I was there for about fifteen minutes, maximum, when all of a sudden I started to feel a bit dizzy and I started to hear voices from very far away. I put my arms behind the nape of my neck to open my lungs so I could more easily breathe, since I suffer from asthma, and that helps a bit.

It didn't work right away. I got up from the chair.  At that moment, a nurse was passing by.  I threw myself on her and fainted. Later when I opened my eyes, I was on a bed. I had already responded and they told me not to worry, that soon a technician would arrive to give me treatment to breathe through the mouth and to help the lungs to breathe better. During that interval, a nurse by the name of Linda gave the order to another nurse that she should give me an IV, just in case. At that point, the respiratory technician arrived and he gave me vapor-like drugs to inhale by mouth. Later he left and at that precise moment when I finished inhaling my body and all my extremities started to shake as if I were having convulsions - very strongly and very quickly.

The nurse with the name of Linda read my vital signs since by then they'd placed a lot of wires on me - on my chest, too - and I quickly saw her dial the phone and she told a doctor, 'Come immediately, it looks real bad.' I continued trembling and my pressure went up to 160 and the same nurse immediately, for the second time, redialed the doctor who was on another floor and said, 'Come immediately, she is very grave; bring your rear down here immediately. I'm not joking.' At that, the doctor came in, stopped to my left, and looked at me and we made eye contact and he asked me 'How do you feel, Senora?' I answered by pointing to my neck, making signs (I couldn't breathe). At that point, he turned the monitor and it said 178. I at the same time turned my head to see and the doctor lets out a huge cry, 'She's leaving us; she's having a cardiac arrest.' He opened my stretcher so I could lie all the way down, as the stretcher was slightly inclined. He put his hand behind the nape of my neck and his other hand under my jaw and then he started to put an iron metal in my mouth, but it wouldn't go in and I told myself, 'This can't be for real.'

The doctor resumed yelling: 'She is having a spasm. I can't put the tube in.' At that precise moment I felt something super-hot over all my body, from my feet to my head and felt, at the same time, that someone pulled me from my feet and something pulled me from my hands in opposite directions and they 'shot' my body as if it had burst. I said, 'My mother, help me!' She had already died in 1991 and I felt a hot beam in my right ear, which dislodged from me - or, rather, that exited my body and I saw a second of darkness. When I opened my eyes, I saw my mother on the ceiling of the room in which my body was. I could only see her from her waist to her head, which didn't surprise me, and neither was I afraid. I said to my mother, 'Wait for me, Mama, let me tell them that I'm okay. I can breathe and nothing hurts.' She didn't answer me, she was very serious, and she only looked into my eyes with a great sadness while I was feeling such relief, peace and happiness and many beautiful things at the same time. I looked down and saw a doctor and nurses who were moving away from me - all minus the doctor and the nurse Linda and the doctor kept yelling at everybody and hitting me and he gave me three electric shocks. I didn't understand why he was so annoyed and agitated in such a manner and I kept observing from above.

I did not for one moment see my body; I only knew and felt that I was floating on the ceiling in the company of my mother.  She was so serious, while I kept observing. Suddenly all the nurses left my side and left the doctor and the nurse Linda was at my side and at that, I felt something hot through my veins. My body felt a pull, which made me sit and I grabbed the nurse Linda with my right hand towards my chest and told her, 'Don't leave me.' After that I didn't know anything until midday Monday when they removed the tube from my mouth and the doctor was in intensive care, inclined, holding my hand and crying and I awakened and turned my head to see who it was and I said:

'Why are you such a grouch and a screamer? Don't be such a _____! Why were you yelling at all the nurses and at Linda, and me, too? I saw and heard everything from the ceiling.' He said, 'It's that you gave us all a great fright. I didn't know what to do and you so young, and your baby and your girls and your husband - what was I going to say to them? Aside from that, it was the first time I resuscitated someone and it was also my first time intubating someone - so you didn't give me time to ask another doctor for more help to intubate you. I had to act, as time was passing and you didn't want to come back.'

I answered, 'Wow, if you knew how lovely it was to be there with my Mama. Well, I didn't feel pain, or anything, but yes, it scared me very much - not being able to breathe. Later I felt a relief and nothing hurt. It was a peace and an immense love that I felt in my heart and my soul, knowing I had that experience and that even though the interval during which I couldn't breathe was horrible, after that was the most marvelous experience I'd had in my life. Before, I was scared of death and now I don't feel the same. I give an infinity of thanksgiving to God for placing you and Linda as my angels who fought and fought even when it looked like there was no hope.'

The doctor told me that he'd spoken with my whole family.  He told them that they'd battled anew to try to bring me back but that it was now in the hands of God and that they didn't know if I would live and if I did, he couldn't guarantee in what state I'd be, as much time had passed since my brain was without oxygen. I asked the doctor what he did with me as I was in pain, had bruises on my arms and chest, and could hardly speak and he said, 'That's of small concern. You are here. That is the most important thing, and it's logical you can hardly speak as the intubation was super-difficult.' I asked him, 'But what else did you do to me?' And he answered, 'Well, I gave you shocks three times and you didn't want to come back until we injected Lidocaine in the IV.  It was that way that your heart started to beat a bit. We tried to maintain you like that and with oxygen, well, your heart was functioning only at 10% and it had to be at an average of 55-70%, so there was no probability that you'd survive and look at you here!' I said: 'Well, God sent me back.'

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  3-2-2007

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I felt an object backed-up in my chest which I wanted to take out even with my own hands which I couldn't - even by coughing - I could not bring it up.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole time I was on the ceiling with my mother as later I didn't know what had happened to me Saturday, Sunday and part of Monday. I didn't know who visited me in the intensive care unit, or anything. Nor did I remember at any moment my daughters, or my baby or my husband, whom I love with all my heart. When I found myself on the ceiling with my mother, I didn't remember my daughters nor my husband - absolutely no-one. I tell you, it's as if I didn't remember them, but I love them very much.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     My body didn't weigh anything. I didn't feel that I was flying but simply floating and that my body found itself in 'pause'.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I only saw that the ceiling was white and there was clarity while I floated with my mother.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard everything at all times I was being resuscitated, and I saw them.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     It was my mother, deceased since 1991, from her waist to her head. I saw her through the ceiling as if she was peering through there to accompany me.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   As if the spotlights of the room in which I was were very brilliant.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Beautiful, marvelous, peace, love, liberty - no pain, no preoccupation and that time did not exist.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Dreams that become reality.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   'pense que era catolica, pero no era asi.'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I gave myself to God. I gave him my heart and my soul and even now I am attending church, because I want to know more of our God.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   soy CRISTIANA

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I gave myself to God. I gave him my heart and my soul and even now I am attending church, because I want to know more of our God.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I've had various dreams after the occurrence, which surprised me as I've seen persons in dreams that tell me their names and last names and the next day I meet them.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes With my husband, my daughters and with all those closest to me.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   The worst of all was the asphyxiation that I felt at the moment that I was in the emergency room in the interval between life and death.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I've had various dreams after the occurrence, which surprised me as I've seen persons in dreams that tell me their names and last names and the next day I meet them.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        For me, it means very much and it changed my life drastically. Spiritually, and with all my family. I value them more and tell them how much I love them and I show them daily as you don't know when it'll be the final time, and I'll have to go and this time I won't return!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    All my family talked about it and told me not to talk about it since it made me remember bad things. I would say no, it's the opposite. It made me feel very fortunate and very happy and I even tell my pastor all my dreams, which I note down in the mornings when I awaken because, if not, I forget them. I even write them down with the light turned off to not loose the notion of my dreams. The pastor says that God has something very big for me; that I am a miracle of God, as he returned me and gave me another opportunity to come to this world.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   A week before, which was also a Friday, I found myself driving and I stopped at a stoplight.  It was red.  At that point, it entered my mind for a few seconds - but super-fast - it happened as if it were a movie about me.  They were reviving me and I was watching myself and I was afraid and I shook my head and started to cry because I didn't know what had passed through my mind and my heart at that precise instant. I only felt a great sadness and I started to yell; crying, asking God why that happened to me.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     In between my awakening and until this moment I keep remembering it and I don't care that they say I'm crazy.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was real, as I felt it in my soul and in my heart and in my being. I don't think I was conscious because if I had been, I would have remembered my family, whom I love so much.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am immeasurably happy knowing that there is peace and love over there, where God awaits us.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Everything is great.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jaqueline_nde.html