{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1janine_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Janine P NDE 4747","mylang":"de"}
          	        Janine P NDE 4747  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Janine P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2406 Janine P NDE 4747  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					You know when you look in the clear bright blue sky and see some fluffy white clouds - I was in those clouds. The peace and serenity I felt is something I will never forget!! I saw a dark figure in the distance (I believe it was my dad) and the voice said, 'It's not your time you have things to do, it's not your time you have to go back.' At this time I opened my eyes to see the police standing at my feet shaking his head saying to my mother, 'You are lucky you even have a daughter.' From there I just remember the nurse at the hospital saying, 'You should not even be here,' as she was shaking her head. From there my very painful healing journey began!!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  August 1998

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Criminal attack    Other: an ex-partner attempted to kill me by overdose and almost succeeded  An ex tried to kill me because he had to go back to jail. My daughters were in the apartment and walked into the bedroom where I lay blue! If it was not for them I WOULD NOT BE HERE!!!

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I would say when I heard the voice and then when I say the police officer, as well as the nurse's words.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Only felt what was happening. Not aware at the time that it was not here. Only later did I really understand where I had been!

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The purity and powerfulness is incomparable with day to day feelings. NOTHING comes close to it!!

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The only thing I can say is that it was so incredibly clear and powerful.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Again - the dark figure in the distance that I saw I truly believe was my dad who had already passed on!!

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I was IN the light!!!

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The place where I was, was clearly not from this demention!! the bright light beautifull place I was, is really hard to put in words...But will NEVER forget the feeling

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       That I felt the peace and serenity that made me feel safer than I ever have!

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   none

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I just don't know what I believe yet. I do believe in angels stronger now though - I have seen them.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   still trying to figure it out

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I just don't know what I believe yet. I do believe in angels stronger now though - I have seen them.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   All I know is that at the time I was meant to be doing something very significant. It has taken some very hard work to get to where I TRULY BELIEVE the message I was given to fulfill, has been clearly shown to me. At least it has taken me a while to figure it out and start to fulfill it!! What an INCREDIBLE experience and gift!!

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Again - I would not be the same strong caring women I am today!!! I have to help others and I will continue, only now it is going to become in a very large scale!!  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I was aware of some of the 'gifts' I have however there were definitely ones that became clearer and stronger over time after the experience.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The Angel had a great deal of meaning as well as my dad. I truly feel and believe my dad literally 'Put' me in that angel's arms that night!! He knew I had many very difficult times ahead and desperately needed the angel's help!!! And that is just what happened.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Probably about almost a year before I felt safe enough to talk about it. Everyone that I have since talked to have really all been in awe, especially ones that have known me for a while and know that what I say is a hundred percent truth. Most also have said they do believe that I am meant to do big and great things.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   A few years before the experience I am talking about, I was very sick in hospital.  My red blood cells were bursting and I had already lost almost half of my blood. My doctors did not expect me to live through the night. However I showed them!! At my worst, I saw a huge angel beside me, and then I saw my dad who had recently passed away. He reached down to me and I saw him with a new born baby in his arms, he then turned around and passed this baby into the arms of this most beautiful angel that was already there. From this point, I started to get better. I was in hospital for six weeks but did make a full recovery. I then also had started to hear the song, 'in the arms of an angel' EVERY where I went!!

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I right away knew my dad was there to help save my life (I had four small children who needed me).

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     There is no doubt in my mind that what I thought at the time, most definitely has happened!! I have been through severe hell and back more than once since then and know with all my heart that I would NOT be the strong incredible women I have now become with so much to offer if I had not had the experience and guidance I have had!!!!

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   But I have had other 'premonitions' that have happened before these experiences.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Probably but I think I'm just too tired to think.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       At this time I really am getting too tired, I probably should have started this earlier. I did however find this very thorough (please excuse my spelling) and well put together!! Thank you for the opportunity to tell some of my story. I have also had many intense dreams happen! Some I would never have believed!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1janine_p_nde.html