{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1janie_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Janie G NDE 3672","mylang":"de"}
          	        Janie G NDE 3672  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Janie G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1674 Janie G NDE 3672  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I went to the dentist office for a simple filling. I was injected several times with Novocain because I wouldn't get numb. The dentist just kept giving me more and more. I began to shake uncontrollably. My heart was racing, and beating very irregularly. I was sort of going in and out. I remember the dentist saying she was going to call 911.

Then there was this voice, this presence, I can't explain it - a bright light and a voice off to the side of me. She said,' Do you remember the way you breathed when you were going to have the children?' I knew she meant the Lamaze slow chest breathing I used when I gave birth to my children. She asked me to use this breathing technique. At this time I really panicked as I began to think of my children and how little they were and how much they needed me. She said, 'You breathe the way I asked you to, and I will go and watch over them for you.' (She meant my children.) She told me that thinking of them would only hurt my heart rate, make it beat faster, to concentrate on breathing and she would watch them for me. Then she said, 'Whichever way it goes I will be here for you.' Things were quiet while the ambulance attendants put me in the ambulance and started an IV. They took me to the hospital, due to medications I received, my heart rate started coming down and was beating more normally. She told me everything was all right now, and that my children were fine and that she loved me, and I was going to be okay, and then she left. I was amazed at the feeling I got from this being, person, I had never felt that someone knew me inside and out, and accepted everything about me. I can tell you I have never felt loved by someone on this earth the way I felt loved by this being. I remember thinking this is how we are supposed to love each other, unreservedly, accepting everything.

I cried for two days after this trying to process everything I had felt. The apparent cause was too much epinephrine got into my bloodstream and it made my heart take off and beat irregularly. I am so grateful for this experience. I was about to face some enormous challenges in my life and thinking of this being and the belief that there is more to life than this life that we live every day, made it easier to cope with what came

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  5-1997

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Allergic reaction    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was in dentist chair getting injection of Novocain. I don't know if I got too much or what, my heart started racing and beating irregularly, I was shaking uncontrollably and going in and out somewhat.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During probably the worst of it. I felt very locked into what she was telling me. The majority of my focus went to her.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Everything felt like it was going on in slow motion inside of me, while everything outside was going very fast. A flurry of activity outside, while I felt calm and slow inside her voice.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I felt I was in a vacuum. I could hear her clearly, but when people around me were talking I could not hear them.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Just a voice. I did not see anyone. Only the light off to the left of me.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Dim light emanating on my left side from where her voice was coming from. I kept trying to turn more to the left to maybe see her but I never could see her.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Great love. Most of all that this person knew me, everything about me, and still accepted me. unconditional love and support.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   raised catholic but don't go to church now. I have various spiritual beliefs.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That what goes on with earth, while important, is not nearly as important as the life on the other side. And that we should strive to love each other unconditionally.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I believe and I hope I am a more loving person.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The feeling of complete love that was there for me. The feeling that this woman knew me.  She seemed to know all about me, all the bad, all the good, and totally loved and accepted me. I have never in my life felt love like this love from anyone. I cried for two days after this experience because I was so upset that no one on this earth loved me like that. I felt such incredible love and acceptance and a knowledge of who I was and why I did things. I would never have to explain how I felt she just knew.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The voice of the being. The love she just seemed to pour out of her. I was amazed by it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my husband first. He thought I was crazy. Then I have told some good friends, some believe, some don't. I am not sure if it changed their way of life.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I have heard of people experiencing NDEs, but only stories. I have never known anyone who had one.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I never doubted that it happened for a moment. No one could convince me otherwise. I feel lucky to have felt that love if only for moments. I was very sad because I had never felt this sort of love before, not from parents, husbands, and children. I was sad over that, and I wanted it back. Mostly I wanted to love the people in my life like that, because I wanted them to feel it. To feel what I felt.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I am glad it happened. I have never doubted it was real. I don't tell just anybody about it though.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   On two occasions my unborn son spoke to me. Once in dream and once during the day when I was just doing normal activities in my home.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am grateful for it. I hope she knows how grateful I was to her for being there for me when I needed her. I sincerely hope she is there when my time comes.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1janie_g_nde.html