{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1janie_a_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Janie A Probable NDE 6239","mylang":"de"}
          	        Janie A Probable NDE 6239  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Janie A Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2997 Janie A Probable NDE 6239  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was quite drunk and riding with my friend to a party. There was a train parked on the road and we drove right under it.  He died and I am told that they had to resuscitate me. The whole top of my head was sheared off and I had severe throat lacerations. I came to in the emergency room and I was joyously telling dirty jokes! True story! People were laughing and all kinds of nurses and staff knew my name and talked to me. This very handsome nurse named Mike, who held my hand and was so sweet. Slowly the realization came upon me of where I was and what had happened. They told me that my buddy, Bob, had been taken to another hospital as this one was too full. The most wonderful doctor ever came and stitched me up.  Dr. Steve had to give me so many Novocain shots; and it was no big deal! I had 5 or 6 in both my forehead and throat and it was all right! I knew how blessed I was! 

The only thing I remember about the NDE was that I felt like I was a part of the northern lights! I was (am) pure positive source energy and I felt the pure power of that!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  October 1980

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident. CPR given. Direct head injury    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I know that I did; I just don't remember.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I felt total oneness, pure love and peace.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       It was while I felt like I was a part of the aurora; the euphoria afterwards is also so amazing and complete!

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time seemed irrelevant.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I became more joyous.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was purely positive, harmonious harmony.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I feel as though I did.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw the aurora lights; many colors.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt euphoria, joy and lightness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I just felt oneness with all.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths   searching...

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I know that I am one with pure positive source energy.  I focus on my alignment.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other faiths- New age   i love the Teachings of Abraham as channeled by esther hicks!

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     i was still working on my beliefs...

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am more open-minded, compassionate and joyous. Just the feeling of complete euphoria!  Please realize that I was a hot happening party chick whose face was ripped violently apart and I laughed when I first saw myself!  It was so unimportant.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I felt the purest love and was enveloped by it.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     i just know

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     felt it with every bit of my being!

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     felt the love!

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That we should be joyously, ridiculously happy; not merely content.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     i knew that my purpose was joy!

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     i felt the eternal-ness of my true nature

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     this is such a short blip on the radar screen of our eternal lives!

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     OMG!PURE LOVE

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Many changes all good.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I am a better person.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   To me it is so much more a feeling; a whole body/mind miracle!

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   i was told that i needed cpr and stuff. don't remember that.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I just 'know' things sometimes yet no control over them.  I see dead people at times.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Just the feeling of complete euphoria!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it all the time. A lot of people passed in my life and I tried to others.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   This was my second NDE.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The euphoria that is experienced afterwards is awesome and very real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The experience was magical; lots of twists and turns but feeling the joy and laughter most of the time!

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   It was reproduced through meditation; booze and drugs don't work so good!

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I would be happy to try to verify any of these details.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1janie_a_probable_nde.html