{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1janice_g_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Janice G Probable NDE 7467","mylang":"de"}
          	        Janice G Probable NDE 7467  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Janice G Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3809 Janice G Probable NDE 7467  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					After my discharge from the hospital, I felt tinges of pain in my abdomen, like little bee stings.  I thought the pain was the adhesions were popping as I had extensive work within the abdomen.  I have always had premonitions during my life.  I had a premonition on New Year's Eve, so I called my adult children.  I told them I had ‘the feeling’ and they knew what I meant. It meant that there would be some tragic event that would occur within a few days, usually a death. I awoke at 4 a.m. from a dream that I was having my period.  When I woke up, I saw blood in the bed. At first, I felt panic.  Then, I said to myself that, ‘Today is the day I will meet my Lord’.  I knew the blood loss was enough that I would never make it to the nearest hospital that was 40 minutes away.  I started saying the 23rd Psalm. I called the local doctor and told him about the blood loss.  He met me in his office to start an IV to prevent shock. Then, the ambulance transported me to the hospital. There was snow and ice so the driver couldn't go as fast as normal.  I felt at peace knowing my God had me in His hand.  

I was in the emergency room a few hours later.  They started to infuse me with blood with an IV in each arm and in the right jugular vein. I was told it looked like the vaginal bleeding had clotted off.  My girlfriend was working that night, so I requested to be admitted to that floor. I was placed in Trendelenburg position with oxygen. Every time I was moved, I felt more ‘stings’ in my abdomen. I was attended by a resident, since my surgeon was not there.  After a short time of constant blood draws, the staff stopped warming the blood since there wasn't time for that.  I am B- that is a rare blood type.  As the supervising nurse came in and lifted the sheet, she exclaimed, ‘Oh my God!’ She rushed around to assemble an operating team.  They pushed my bed into the operating room and moved me onto the table.  My knees hung from stirrups and they put the mask on my face.  All the while, I kept praying.  I had two back surgeries prior to this and I have never remembered anything once I was under anesthesia.  

But this time, I woke up in another place. I shouted, 'I'M ALIVE! I'M ALIVE!' I was in a bright fog, like inside a bright cloud.  The only structure I could see was a round black tunnel to my upper left.  A man's voice said, ‘You have to go back, you have work to do.’ I have never felt more free, safe, and alive in my life.  It was profound.  All of my senses were just beyond intense.  There was such an abundance of peace and love all around me. I was so immersed in the feelings that it was beyond words. I was shown revelations and healing for the people on earth but they need to learn how to receive it. I never thought about my identity or from where I came. I never thought of taking a breath, yet I was never more alive. Suddenly, it was over. 

I was hearing loud noises and seeing bright colors like a whirly gig in my head.  I heard a noise like ‘chunk, chunk, chunk.’  Someone was calling my name.  When I opened my eyes, I was in the recovery room.  I felt so heavy, like I was buried under a ton of wet sand.  

Then I remembered and realized that I had an out of the body experience. I understood what God meant when He said, ‘I AM’ and know that ‘WE ARE.’ It is so simple!  We are spirits living in a fleshly temple. I was so thankful to have had the ability to tell others. I was told that I needed to talk about the experience, but people had the choice to believe me or not.  I was so fearful of not doing what I was on earth to do; I didn't want to be turned away again. I was in utter euphoria and I didn't want to lose that feeling. I knew that the feeling would fade when I got used to a body again in a few weeks.  

In the meantime, I just basked in the glory and prayed. I did not feel like I lived here anymore and that I was just passing through. I became very bold in my knowledge but allowed the Spirit to guide me in what to say and to whom. Every time I recount this event, I become so emotional and euphoric that it is amazing.  I know I am doing what I need to do. I do not push anyone into believing. I just tell them what I experienced.  During this time, I have had several folks tell me about going down the tunnel into the garden where Jesus was. I have had only three men tell me about demons, fire, and hell.  They changed their life after they survived.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  01/1/1991

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related.    Other: All I was told was it was very close, my sternum hurt as if I had had a precordial thump or CPR, I did not get any of my records at the time, I was in surgery for repair post hysterectomy 9 days earlier, I started hemorrhaging during the night of New Year  All I was told was it was very close, my sternum hurt as if I had had a pre-cordial thump or CPR, I did not get any of my records at the time, I was in surgery for repair post-hysterectomy 9 days earlier, I started hemorrhaging during the night of New Year’s day.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It is impossible to even try to put it into words. It is a freedom, a singularity of self-uncovered and naked like you never have had on this earth, every sense is profound and heightened to inexplicable levels, I yearn for it!!

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       This is hard to answer, there is no time when you are there, we invented time, in the eternal there is none: all during this event, and for several weeks afterwards.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There is absolutely no awareness of 'time'.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Impossible, I was grounded in the flesh, when you are free of that burden it is amazing and profound, you know it is you, you are all there, not like a dream where you know you aren't really in a real place. YOU KNOW YOU ARE THERE TOTALLY AS A WHOLE DISEMBODIED PERSON. I never saw any of myself or even thought about having a body, a family, a husband, being a mom or a nurse, not any of it (am taking a breath), yet I was SO ALIVE!!!

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Much more intense

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     I was what I call ‘In the Veil’  I could see a round black tunnel to my upper left but I had no thought about it or what was occurring to me at the time.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   This was a place that was bright but veiled like a fog where nothing was distinguishable except a round black tunnel to the upper left of where I was. An unusually bright light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     Bright fog

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Utter euphoria	Incredible joy  Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No     Not during this event I had looked into the eyes of Yeshua Jesus during another event in my life, I was pulled up into His face, His beautiful sea blue-green eyes, and there was no end to Him, but not during this near death experience.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Deeper, stronger

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   I grew up Catholic as a child, but I knew something was wrong w what I was taught. My oldest brother was killed at age 21, I was 12. I always believed in a god but eventually learned that Jesus was real and saved me from an abusive alcoholic husband,it is about a relationship not a denomination, anyone can go to heaven if they ask Jesus for forgiveness and accept Him as Lord..

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     No Guilt, totally accepted

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am bold and discuss things with people who have a misunderstanding of what God and WHO God is.  I grew up Catholic as a child, but I knew something was wrong with what I was taught. My oldest brother was killed at age 21, I was 12. I always believed in a god but eventually learned that Jesus was real and saved me from an abusive alcoholic husband. Religion is about a relationship not a denomination; anyone can go to heaven if they ask Jesus for forgiveness and accept Him as Lord.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I knew it was a man's voice, ‘You have to go back you have work to do’.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No   Not during this event, I had looked into the eyes of Yeshua Jesus during another event in my life, I was pulled up into His face, His beautiful sea bluegreen eyes, there was no end to Him...but not during this near death experience.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     We were given power to overcome all things on this earth through His Word and promises, we are not taking authority especially when it comes to healing. He cries over this.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     We have a plan over out life, no matter who or how we grow up, He is always there to guide us, He wants us to learn and be with Him, His love is beyond Words, no one can describe it....it is so easy to just accept Him and allow Him to show us the Truth

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   Everything is about Him, where you will spend eternity.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     I cannot explain this, I just know what I know I was shown....if I could only explain it to others, I want them to know what incredible love is there for them if they just accept it.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     There is another realm of dimension, we are living spirits in a world that appears to be real but it is not our home, we are here to execute the Will of the Creator.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     LOVE

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     He did it all for us

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Oh Dear, this is the greatest of all...especially for me not feeling loved for so many years of my life...He is all we need...when you feel that penetrate your very being you don't want it to stop...you want others to stop and allow themselves to experien

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life. My perspective on a lot of things has changed. I don't waste time like I used to.  So many things are trivial.  I try to understand the big picture and how everything means something.  I try to get out of my little world and lea     Large changes in my life. My perspective on a lot of things has changed. I don't waste time like I used to.  So many things are trivial.  I try to understand the big picture and how everything means something.  I try to get out of my little world and learn so I can help those around me when they need it.  I have a hunger to learn what God wants me to know so I can fulfill my purpose here and go back with Him.  I have an unquenchable thirst for knowledge and am seeking all I can regarding the Bible, the message to us for today and the End of the Age.  I have learned so many things that have just come together to give me what I need to bring it to others when it is time.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Deeper, it is difficult to allow folks to choose not to believe, because they have no clue what they will be missing. I cannot imagine living away from that love; I would give anything to get there again!!!  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The Words cannot do justice to the event. I have tried to the best of my knowledge and always weep when I describe His love, especially, He does not hurt His children. Because of evil and wicked decisions we experience pain, He gave us all the tools we need in His Word to use against the wicked spirits in the world. He told me a few years ago to ‘prepare, I am coming back soon’.  I know Jesus is returning in my lifetime.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I always have had a gift, but since then I have heard Him speak to me on different occasions. He told me to go save my sister, He told me to sell our winter home in Florida and prepare because ‘I am coming back soon.’  I long to hear that voice, something flows through me when it speaks that is euphoric and amazing. I know obedience to that and welcome it; it is like pleasing a parent, you are compelled to love back because His is so overwhelming: you desire to love back.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of it!!!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   As an RN that worked in a special unit and ICU I heard many stories from my clients, even one of my nurse companions had a NDE when she had a tubal pregnancy rupture.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I wanted to go back.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know it was real beyond a doubt, things keep occurring that validate it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I cannot explain this, I just know what I know I was shown.  If I could only explain it to others, and I want them to know what incredible love is there for them if they just accept it.  I felt united or one with the world. I lost awareness of my body. I had no Guilt; I was totally accepted. We were given power to overcome all things on this earth through His Word and promises; we are not taking authority especially when it comes to healing. He cries over this. God has a plan over our life, no matter who or how we grow up. He is always there to guide us. He wants us to learn and be with Him, His love is beyond Words, no one can describe it: it is so easy to just accept Him and allow Him to show us the Truth. There is another realm of dimension.  We are living spirits in a world that appears to be real but it is not our home, we are here to execute the Will of the Creator. He did it all for us. Oh Dear, Love is the greatest of all, especially for me not feeling loved for so many years of my life. He is all we need.  When I feel that love penetrate my very being, I don't want it to stop. I want others to stop and allow themselves to experience it.  I don't want them to get turned away and lose what is waiting for them.  I was just in the waiting room, think of what it is like on the other side of the tunnel!!

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       As a medical professional I felt this was most thorough and I thank you, it was through L.A. M I found you, I have seen UFO's up close many years ago and asked God how they fit in, now I have been lead to the Nephilim and fallen angels and it is all coming together. God bless you.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1janice_g_probable_nde.html