{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1janet_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Janet S NDE 194","mylang":"de"}
          	        Janet S NDE 194  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Janet S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						648  Janet S NDE  194  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 I had been having some chest pain and took a nitroglycerine tablet.  It helped and I decided to lie down on my bed and rest.  As I was lying there, I was thinking about having left work early and how I should be there getting things done before I left for the weekend.


Suddenly my heart started to do what I can only describe as a 'shudder'.  I started to call out to my daughter when my heart stopped.  I suddenly realized that EVERYTHING had stopped.  There was no sound, no movement, nothing.  I was standing there taking in this fact, when I looked down and saw my body on the bed.  I thought, "Oh, I'm dead," like it was a completely ordinary thing.  Then I remember thinking, "I wonder if the rain stopped too?"  So I went through the wall and looked around outside.  The rain had not just stopped; the raindrops were suspended in mid-air.  It was the most awesome sight I'd ever seen.  I remember moving around looking at different drops and I found one that was quite large, so I was looking at it closely and was about to touch it when it started to fall.  At that same instant, I was back on the bed.  My heart was beating again and I felt so happy, and realized I was grinning from ear to ear.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    November 8, 2002

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Heart attack    Clinical death My heart stopped.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Disturbing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I don't recall my appearance or form, I just was.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I felt fully conscious and more alert then normal.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I felt that time had either stopped or didn't exist.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    There were no sounds or noises at all, which amazed me.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No     

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No     

Did you see an unearthly light?      No   

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No     

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No     

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No   

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No     

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   The awe I felt and the feeling of bliss or absolute happiness, but more than that.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I started seeing flashes of things, people, events.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The worst part was how it frightened my daughter.  The best part was the feeling of peace and happiness it gave me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    The person I shared this experience with related that he had a similar experience several years ago and that he had to get counseling to get over it.  He was very supportive and encouraged me to talk about it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Uncertain   The 'visions' are disturbing and I'm not sleeping well.

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1janet_s_nde.html