{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1janet_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Janet M NDE 5092","mylang":"de"}
          	        Janet M NDE 5092  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Janet M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2639 Janet M NDE 5092  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Three of us were in an empty house, making lots of preparations to do complete house decorating. Walls stripped, etc. We were in the kitchen. The two men with me were not drug addicts, but recreational drug users. They had been given a drug. They had small needles to inject with it. I was given an injection sitting on the stool in the kitchen. They lived. I died and collapsed. I know the next details as I observed them as from a different dimension. They between them picked up my body and moved me into the main hallway. Laying on the floor, they checked for a pulse, to hear any breathing, and then gave me mouth-to-mouth resuscitation, using movements to press on my chest for lungs. Nothing happened. I lay there lifeless.

They gave up and were in shock, so they leaned back on the radiator and didn't know what to, do rolled themselves cigarettes and smoked them looking at my body laying upon the floor discussing wrapping my body in bin liners and how to get rid of me, dispose of the body.

Meanwhile, I had risen up. I could see through the floorboards into the floor above. I saw the wooden framework within the building as I was rising up. I was just going higher up and higher up through the building. I was in the banisters moving through the floors and walls in a totally different dimension. I was a living entity that could move through things that did not appear to be solid as they had been to me before. I saw them but moved through them. No emotion no joy, no sad, no pain, nothing like that at all. Then, something, I don't quite know what, made me turn around. Then I saw myself on the floor. They had finished their cigarettes, and then one said that I was 'dead'. This was an instant reaction to me of they think I am dead, that is a lie, it cannot be allowed the lie of death is not acceptable, complete whole being found the untruth just unacceptable. I could not allow it, it could not be allowed. In the entity that I had become, or was it was principled, all consuming, in a way I find hard to describe other than it could not sustain that which was not truth. It was truth that I was very alive. The other man started to roll another cigarette and the second man said he would try one last time to give me mouth-to-mouth resuscitation.

I moved back between the floor boards, through the wooden beams, the staircase not as humans do but through them, directly through them, they were not solid to me I was not solid. The huge thing to me, was not that my body was lifeless laying on the floor, but that they believed that I was dead, and that I was so very alive in the dimension I was within, which was not the same. Not the same as they were in, my body on the floor was in, and the belief that 'I' was dead, was unacceptable, could not be allowed. 

The alive me was in a different dimension very strong, very powerful, very alive so, I went down to them. Down to my body into my body I not so much as made a choice, as the power of truth, for not knowing how else to put it, was so strong it gave no other choice it simply was. There were no conscious thoughts of I am wanting to stay, or I am wanting to leave or go up or down. Nothing like that just simply allowing the lie of death was unacceptable. It caused instant response the truth, truth had to be seen given done.

I became aware that I was coughing, and liquid was coming up from my chest and running out of my mouth. The mouth to mouth had been successful, even though without a doubt the body had been lifeless for some time. I had re-entered my body on the floor, and the body was 'alive'. I was helped up, and I told them of everything that they had said and done, word for word. I described to them the floorboards, the in-between the walls, the parts of the house that I had not seen before but as an alive entity, I had seen and moved through. How there were wooden posts and where they were in the floors. I then explained the way that Truth brought me back.

I was walked around the block a couple of times. I looked pale apparently, but I had no fear. Felt no pain. Was very calm. The men were spooked a bit by me.  They started to tell other people that I had come back from the dead. I thought I would not be believed, so, kept a lot to myself. I had, and have, a complete certainty, that we do not die. We continue to live but in a different dimension, as a different type of entity. There should be no fear of death, none whatsoever. Anyone talking about death, I just say, death is a lie we don't die. We continue in a different form. No pain, no fear, but there is Truth. I can't remember light maybe seeing the dust particles in the sunlight in a room on the upper floor but no things that some people say they experience. This was my own experience and it affects me still to this day.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1987

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    I had been given a lethal injection of drugs by two men in a house that I was helping to decorate.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   It was an unintended death. They did not mean to kill me; they thought I would enjoy my experience. It was quick and almost instant in its effect. I died within seconds.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As I was through the floor boards and rising into the upper levels, I was very aware I was acutely alert.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Space was irrelevant. Time was irrelevant.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Objects were not solid. I was not solid I moved between them, in them, through them.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard through floors and thoughts. I heard the thoughts before the words.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     I passed through floors, walls, staircase.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   No light, but I saw dust particles lit up in an empty room above the body.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     i was in a different dimension, as I moved within it as a different dimensional entity.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       None.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   'No defined religious. Had explored Judaism, Christianity and wanting to know what was Ancient Truth relevant to today.'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I do not give man credit e.g. no man is an idol there is a force of good an energy that is truth there is belief system that Truth is powerful. No heaven or hell, just continuance in another entity, dimension, different dimensions.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   'Now.....I have certainty.  An exact knowledge. So, within the Truth of this, I live.'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I do not give man credit e.g. no man is an idol there is a force of good an energy that is truth there is belief system that Truth is powerful. No heaven or hell, just continuance in another entity, dimension, different dimensions.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   We are alive after the body ceases to function. That belief in the opposite is a lie. We are strong living entities, very very alive and with an overwhelming Truth. That different dimensions exist within our world, we are more than body we are a living entity I was a different entity out of the body, in a different dimension no pain, no fear, no negatives rising up.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have no contact with those men for years - I don't take time with timewasters who hark on about death for we don't die merely exist in other life forms. I have an assuredness to me that is very deep.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   The being in a different dimension to that of my body and the building and the people there. The power of Truth. It was not emotional in any sense, more defined in being an entity that could not tolerate a 'lie' - the 'lie' being that I was dead. In human terms yes, I was definitely dead but the dimension I was in that moved through objects floors, could see, hear, and know, it was a complete and utter non-acceptance of the lie of death. For in the entity I was, in a different dimension, I was life.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I am aware of those nearing death plant, animal, human. I have helped heal people. I don't say that to folk though, because I don't want the attention - I don't see it as 'me', rather I am just a vessel a shell for another entity.  Sometimes I do not help it with actions from my body.  It is very strong.  From a strong dimension and will survive my body until it leaves it again.

  I have helped take fear away from those who are dying, and relatives of the dying I know when animals are going to die, sick animals find their way to my house, and my children have grown up seeing me care for them and helping them. Neighbors have seen me sit on my little wall with wild sparrows resting in my hand not flying away. I have a greater empathy with the earth, things happening in the world, suffering of nature, animals, and am aware of manmade incidents that are now being blamed on nature, but the source is man.

  I am able to give some guidance and knowledge to those who seek it from me, on matters that may be hidden to them; I believe that man has forgotten how to use his senses. Occasionally, someone will come across my path.  I will pass on a bit of my personal teaching, but in ways that I think they will understand, so I will use ancient human things, like, Runes, White Eagle Medicine Wheel, Shamanic things I know, and I don't try to do it, that I am nowhere near using my potential, for it comes with a great responsibility.

  With knowledge, power, gifts, whatever you choose to call it, comes responsibility. We have a choice, always, to do the right thing, or not. It is with thought, and belief, that we create, project, if man understood this it would be phenomenal, so, when I truly focus, I know it will come to pass. When others seek me to help, I first have to seek what is right, before just agreeing to help, for it may not be right to give them what they ask for so focus with responsibility.

  I can calm troubled minds. I worked voluntarily for a year in a mental institution; they fired two workers, as I did such a good job. No fear in my presence. Calm. Acceptance. I help, not knowing how just being. In my presence, an innocence can exist a purity but I don't feel it is I, just something moving through me. The other dimension, the entity, dimensions working within this one.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The existence of life beyond this body. The different dimensions that exist. The having no fear, no pain, the strength of the entity that I had become, the absoluteness of it all. No doubts, so strong, so powerful.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Gosh first two men who I described to them what they said, thought, did, were shocked truly shocked. I was viewed as a freak I think. Then I kept it quiet, very quiet, and hid myself away. Then I saw a doctor a senior registrar of a hospital near my mother's house. He regressed me, on his day off. He said that I had also been in shock after that experience and that without realizing it I had helped a lot of people and without even knowing it - I would be helping many more through my experience. The dying are comforted. The scared eased. Fears allayed, calming for people. I speak as fact. It is fact we do not die. That there is certainty of life after death.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Of course it was real. I described everything exactly as it was. I shared what I had not known existed in other parts of the building they were exactly as I had seen. It was real viewing that reality, what can you say about that? It happened so I experienced it. I now know something for certain that few people do - that's my reality.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     You can't change reality. It happened, complete certainty of all of it. I am here because it is right for me to be so. There are dimensions around us, this is just a shell this body. Just a shell.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It was like being part of something so very powerful, strong principled. I don't have the words to describe but dimensional, we are more than just human body, so much more.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       My artwork changed, colors were brighter. I don't know if folks can put down how else they were affected. I felt freer, to sing and just be the person I am, creative, beautiful things, beautiful work, beautiful song, touch gentle, caring sensual, all feeling. The extended me, the me that expressed in sense aware of more, the vibrancy of life, the flow of life maybe something that lets people express this. Also, this form is for Americans, not worldwide, i.e., I went to university in London, your questions are for college, viewed for Americans. Not worldwide.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1janet_m_nde.html