{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1janet_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Janet B NDE 109","mylang":"de"}
          	        Janet B NDE 109  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Janet B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						536  Janet B NDE  109  					  				  			      			</section>    			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 NDE POEM By Janet "Cookie" Baird, NDE#109


I've seen the Lord firsthand, and reached the Promised Land.


A near-death tragedy turned into a message from The Lord for me.


As I drew my last breath, the name ' Jesus ' I heard;


untitled, yet simple, yet though out me I felt "THE WORD".....


Then suddenly, I knew the  "Pureness of Life", Aware of all Goodness-never having know strife.


I was taken through time, overthrowing it all; Heavens and Universes came crashing to a fall!!!


Religions, Governments; visible or not.....turned into ashes-in their sins did they rot.


Then did the Truth of all Pureness Within, fade non-existence all memory of sin.


True Life Eternal is meant for us all; And now you're award is to pass along THE CALL.


Experience description:


When I first "died" (and you know why that feels like as it happens)- very different, all of a sudden- now I just "automatically" knew most of what was occurring as it occurred; except for 2 different places...


This was one and I heard it from inside me- I heard the word "Jesus"- now I am not a religious person, always been a good person, but this took me by complete surprise.  I did not know what I looked like--- just the word "Jesus" and real, true life within me...


Then I was alone, and from far out in the distance was a giant red "blob"-- you know that movie, "the blob"? That's what it looked like, and what it was, I could "see and explain it” because I was full of eternal life-Jesus.  I knew this blob thing as all of "creation." it was all mucked together, just wandering around.  The blob consisted of “all” intermingled to the point of lost identities.  It was looking for some kind of "food" to keep it going, but it wasn't going anywhere.  Because the worst part of it was it's "feeling" of lifelessness---there was no "substance” to it.  The lifelessness of it was it's worst horror...and there I was, full of real eternal life. Jesus, not "Jesus christ” or any "religious reference”), and the blob tried to approach me.


Then, i'm up above the world (earth) and looking down at it from a northwest viewpoint.  I remember saying to myself, "all that technology. All that these think they possess, and nobody can even see me here!!!"


Then it was as if I was "hit with a thousand serpents" and as soon as they came close to me, they vanished.  Who "they" were, I can't say but "they were the ones supposedly doing things in the name of "life," like teenage boys being totally "busted" at doing something very wrong, they fell back in horror at being caught and exclaimed "juanita's back!!! We thought we sacrificed her!!!" they had been proven guilty by their own reactions, they fell back out of existence. I couldn't be harmed.  I could sense that they had knowledge that eternal life accepts no negativity, so they stayed away from the light.   I "passed" through this area.  For about 6 seconds, I made an appearance into heaven.  This seems to be earlier than when I encountered Jesus.  Yet, it seemed to occur at the same time.


I was suddenly where nothing could access unless given permission to access), it was/is my home.  I had been there forever.  My home is goodness in every way beyond all words. There was a round pillar with what looked like "hieroglyphic" writing all over it, but it is not "writing.”  It is eternal truth, non-variable and perfect truth.  This truth was only all, perfect good truth, not one negative thing.


There were two of my "eternal family" on either side of me.  They looked different than me because they had eternal "bodies."  this look is way beyond us.  It doesn’t matter your place in "creation," whether your body is human or alien.  Spirituality and soul all are "created." yet, this is eternal life cannot be "created.  I had completed what I need do on this side.  There was/is no more "time." when I showed myself as the knowledge of all goodness, the two eternal beings did an about face, out of "respect" for what is.  Then we walked to the right.  Then, I stood for a moment in the place where nothing could access.  I was my true self, beyond name.  I was everything of "creation," and knew better who, what I am, and what I have completed.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    October 29, 1983

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes     Received twice the amount of a lethal poison from someone I had "turned down" before a Halloween party...  Clinical death Someone tried to lethally poison me.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Can't say for most of it, but I saw my true, ultimate form.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Very

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   No such thing- only eternal life… No 'blobs' have ever actually existed

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No     

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     

The experience included:      Void

Did you see an unearthly light?      No   

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Eternal life

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      All kinds of emotions.  I knew I was true life so I was okay; but some of the messages I have to "relay", it's something else.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I 'know' everything good; along with being able to 'show' me showing it as all truth...what is it that I have full knowledge of??? Nobody can "pick" it out of me- I don't even know right now,...but I do know!!!!

The experience included:      Vision of the future

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Everything- "religion", looking at what's really real from what's never been!!!   In every way.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   The whole thing... But I can "show" it in my memory to anyone with "telepathic" gifts...right up to the point of me being in "eternal life"- beyond name, religions, anything ,incl. Access...and showed myself as what I truly am...Pure Life, there were two eternal members on either side of me - not alien- this is inaccessible to all (unless no matter who or what, you are good in Eternal values); and "allowed" access...I was in the middle; my appearance was round, "sacred" living with "hieroglyphic" type writing all over me; but it was not "writing"; it was/is pure Eternal living truth...The two eternal "family members ' on either side of me looked different.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best- eternal life...the worst- trying to let others know there need not be bloodshed by clashing religions, over land, etc.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    They agreed with me on some points.  "Christians" really have a problem with hearing about the true life of "Jesus"-not "Jesus Christ" and "sacrifices being o.k. and b.s. stuff like that…etc..

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   totally different person inside--- work on eternal values; not "piddly things" and "rules and rituals" around here that have nothing to do with the truth

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      There's sooo much... But you have the "gist" of it

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1janet_b_nde.html