{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1janelle_m_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Janelle M Probable NDE 9708","mylang":"de"}
          	        Janelle M Probable NDE 9708  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Janelle M Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						5239 Janelle M Probable NDE 9708  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I had my third open-heart surgery and was in recovery in the intensive care unit (ICU). Several hours after surgery, it was time to wake up. I found it difficult to open my eyes or squeeze a hand as instructed. I knew the nurses were talking to me. I attempted and succeeded in wriggling my toes and ankles in the attempt to move my body and wake up fully. I could hear the nurses saying that maybe I was having a seizure as I was still attempting to move my body and release my hands that were tucked by my side. Then the nurses were saying that I may have had a stroke because I was moving erratically.  

  The nurses were discussing removing my breathing tube and I became very distressed as I felt that I wouldn’t be able to breathe. My eyes were open by this time and I asked for a pen and paper to write. I wrote down that I had high potassium, as I had experienced this a year before with this particular medication. I wrote down for them to contact my kidney specialist, perform dialysis, and contact my general practitioner doctor. I also wrote 'Don’t remove the breathing tube.' I was trying to talk but I couldn’t be understood. The doctor in charge told me to calm down as the breathing tube would be removed. He tole me that I would be fine and was just panicking.  I resigned myself to calming down although I knew I would not be able to breathe when they took the breathing tube out.

  I remember flying forward, spiraling at a very fast rate.  I was outside and flying like out in space.  There were many beautiful colors passing by.  I had a feeling of euphoria and peace. I was flying toward a bright white light, the clearest white I have ever seen. I was frightened. Yet, I was at peace being lovingly surrounded by light. 

  I arrived and floated in the still and quiet and into a vast, white room. It appeared to be a waiting room. I didn’t see anyone and nobody came to meet me.  I was scared and had no idea how long I was there. I felt that I was in a timeless space and felt weightless while in the stillness. This was a surreal experience that left me feeling free of the burden of my body.

  My family told me they had been contacted as I was refusing treatments.  The hospital did not acknowledge that anything had happened although I questioned them.  I did get some acknowledgment from other staff over the next four days in the ICU.  The main doctor on that shift told me that she had saved my life.   I have no ongoing problems after this experience.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 3/10/2023  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.    Surgery-related. Allergic Reaction. Drug or medication overdose       Life threatening event, but not clinical death   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   The light and colors seem to have more clarity. I knew somehow it was an unearthly experience.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Flying toward the light and in the waiting room.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     I was flying forward at fast speed then to slow to a stop and wait.  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     There was more clarity to the rainbow of colors and the white light was blinding.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No noise.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was more a vastness without sides until the waiting room. It was square but vast and limitless.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Blinding clear and white.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I vast room of clear white light in which I was floating in serenity.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace and love.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian     

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I did not expect to die or have an NDE until the experience happened. My expectations would be that entities would be there to greet  me so my conclusion is that I was in a waiting room ready to return when the dialysis is machine was connected and my body ready to live on. It was not on the plan to have a reaction to medication. I had full trust in the doctors.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am certain that death is not the end just another beginning.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I knew that it was not an experience I have had before. There was a vast stillness in which I floated.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            No       

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I experienced a feeling of euphoria, stillness, quietness of contrast noise of my surroundings.  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?            I am thankful for my experience as now I have faith that there is life after death and I will participate in a heavenly experience when I eventually die.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  I wish that the doctors would have spoken to me about my experience. I felt fobbed off. I know I had an experience that was unworldly. I would have liked to know what they did to save me. I have never been frightened of dying and this clarifies to me that it will be peaceful.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It’s real.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was so distressed before it happened, I knew it was going to happen and resigned myself to it happening.  I was thrilled that it did happen as it is real and I have no worries for when the time comes in the future.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It happened. After completing the questionnaire have clarified that I am not so much different than others having a similar experience.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am pleased that it happened and I survived.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Not sure         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1janelle_m_probable_nde.html