{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jane_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Jane D NDE 697","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jane D NDE 697  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jane D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						219  Jane D NDE  697  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I went to my doctor's office to obtain treatment for a bad chest cold.  He determined that I had bronchial pneumonia and gave me a penicillin injection.  He requested that I wait at least fifteen minutes in his office waiting area before going home just in case I had any kind of reaction to the penicillin.  I did so, and within a few minutes, I felt light-headed and sensed a blackness closing in on my field of vision.  I called for a nurse for help.  The doctor and a nurse ran out, got hold of me by each arm and started to guide me back into his office.  I collapsed and they eased me unconscious onto the floor.  He immediately gave me a shot of adrenalin to counteract the effect of the penicillin.


While I was unconscious on the floor, I sensed that I was floating above my body and over toward a corner of the room.  I watched as the doctor and nurse administered the adrenalin and I heard them talking about the event that had just happened.  I had no extended experience, just the sensation of floating, watching what was happening in the room, and listening to them speak.  As soon as the adrenalin took effect, I sensed that I was suddenly back in my body and talking to the doctor and nurse again.  They notified my husband to come in since he was waiting for me in the car.  He waited with me for about thirty minutes until I was able to stand and walk out of the clinic.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    October 1967

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   IllnessAllergic reaction    Life threatening event, but not clinical death Allergic reaction to penicillin injection.

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Unconscious.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Just what was going on in the doctor's examining room.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No   There was no decision involved - I just seemed to automatically return to my body as soon as the adrenalin caused my heart to begin beating normally again.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   I felt that no one would believe me.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No     Nothing psychic or unusual, just a reassurance that the Lord loves me and is with me every day of my life.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The worst part was the actual allergic reaction.  There was no best part - it was just something that happened.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Only with my husband.  I feel that he would believe me if anyone would.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I've always wondered what would have happened next if I hadn't returned to my body.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jane_d_nde.html