{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jan_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Jan S NDE 2825","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jan S NDE 2825  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jan S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						962  Jan S NDE  2825  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  One minute I was looking at the screen while the doctors were 'feeding' the tube into my body and I was fascinated looking at the pictures of my arteries and heart and then nothing. I remember seeing my father and a few other people whom I knew, but after a while, it was more a sense of not being amongst strangers - being safe. This 'memory' only became a conscious memory when I awoke and apart from the above, the overwhelming feeling was of an indescribable happiness, calmness, everything will always be okay feeling. I have never experienced anything like this feeling, and it remains with me every day. I can, in times of normal human difficulty, bring this feeling forth. Even though the traffic is still bad, petrol is expensive - none of that is more than a blip on the horizon. It's like an insight of wisdom - except I'm not sure where it came from, only to trust the feeling!

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 '16 February, 2005'  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Heart attack       Other Clinical death while undergoing an angiogram after heart attack  Undergoing angiogram after heart attack when my heart stopped while in procedure - fortunately, I was in the right place - the operating theatre!  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   No distractions.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Immediately upon consciousness - everything was so clear.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My father and my sister-in-law's mother and others I knew were grouped together. I felt they were pleased to see me but somewhat surprised. I got the feeling it was like being an unexpected but welcome guest.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happiness, calmness, contentment, peace.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   I considered myself to have a strong faith  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     My faith has strengthened, but the labels are unimportant to me now.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Level of faith now irrelevant - it just is!  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     My faith has strengthened, but the labels are unimportant to me now.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The knowledge is spiritual and is impossible to convey. I know I am more at peace.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I seem to be able to have more balanced relationships with people. I don't feel I have to 'win' points anymore. If people are being emotional, I can now better empathize. I still have to work at it but I now have the tools.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I didn't feel it was necessary or particularly relevant, I certainly shared the experience, but words rather lessened than related the experience.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I have been left with the knowing, I feel I 'got' this when I saw my father that everything is as it is - and that is okay.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was maybe a couple of weeks before I shared what had happened with anyone and the reactions have been mixed. Some people have taken solace, but I think that is motivated by our fear of death - almost like an insurance policy. Now, I don't talk about it because it's just not relevant most of the time. If I feel it may be of some help to someone, I do talk about it, as much as you can articulate an event like that.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I did have some knowledge of how powerful our soul or spirit is and that it has no limits, but no amount of bodily consciousness could equal the freedom of this experience.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I didn't, and still don't, view the experience as separate from me. It was, and is, firmly integrated in soul and my inner intellect.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I am left with no then and now feelings. I'm not trying to be obtuse, but the time thing just doesn't apply here. If you like, it was a wonderful experience and it continues to be a wonderful experience.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I'm finding the more I embrace the experience and live with what I know - my insides just keep feeling better and better - it's strange but I can't put it into words, it just is.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Don't be afraid - what you expect, need, want, will be there.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jan_s_nde.html