{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jan_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Jan M NDE 3252","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jan M NDE 3252  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jan M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1183  Jan M NDE  3252  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was running along a river with my dogs with my husband and grandchildren close. The dogs started to run into the woods and I was running after them calling them to come back all of a sudden I felt very strange and I knew something was going to happen to me. I turned around to yell for my husband and that is when he told me he looked at me hit the ground. He said my whole body just collapsed. He ran to me and I was not breathing. My eyes were wide open and I was limp like a rag doll. He said he shook me and all that happened was my being limp. He then said he prayed for guidance. He was told to hit me on my back. This he did over and over, harder each time. He then said I made a sound he has never heard from a human and began breathing. He sat me up and I could not raise my head.

During the time I was dead, I remember hearing the grandchildren asking what was wrong and the oldest saying, 'Grandpa, we must talk to Jesus.' I then went to a place of calm with a sky a blue I have never seen and there were trees of bright gold and green that you could see through the leaves and all was so bright. I also remember I was floating over my body and could see me in my husband's arms with the grandchildren standing by. I then came back and was sitting up. I was rushed to hospital and under critical care for three weeks. I was told many times over by many doctors I should have not survived; that they had someone the same day with same condition, that did not make it but a few hours. All were amazed, still are.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    September 2002

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes     Blood clot that I was not aware of had moved between my heart and lungs  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) .  Blood clot.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I came back from the experience.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      When I came back from the experience.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Just felt like all was still, no time involved.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    Color, Brightness, Vision remarkable, transparency of leaves on trees.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Very clear.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     A place of unreal beauty with sky , trees , calming wind

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Peace, Calm, Awe, Joy, Lightness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes     Much stronger.

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Much stronger.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I had a strong desire for knowledge. All my surroundings were as if they were there to guide me to something or for a purpose.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  I am more positive I now do not hold things back and let them keep me upset I tell whoever what is bothering me about them. I am more into my animals I love just going into by pastures with my horses and just sitting with them.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The place I was sent to was telling me not to be afraid of death as it is more life than what you have here on earth. I have always been horrified of death.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    When I got out of critical care and back home.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     Days after the experience I felt such joy I looked at my life in a different way. It is the simple things that bring me more happiness.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     It was real I try to go back to that place in my mind and for some reason cannot get the same picture.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I know there is a reason for all that happens in our lives and we must learn from each one and make the bad better. To stand up for what you believe in and not be afraid.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jan_m_nde.html