{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jamin_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Jamin A NDE 6895\/862","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jamin A NDE 6895/862  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jamin A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						353  Jamin A NDE  6895/862  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description 6895  					</p>  					

Around 3.00pm, close to Poitiers (France), about one week before my 9th birthday. I'm walking from the commercial center towards home, as my mother accepted to let me go alone for the first time. I'm in a hurry to arrive, as I am excited to meet the children of  my mother's companion, that I never saw before...so that while crossing the street, I don't see coming upon me the 'big truck', in fact is only a car....


The car hits me head on.  I am told that I did a triple backward somersault.  I find myself on the road several yards away, unconscious... then, I see my body, laying in the ambulance, covered by an orange colored blanket, my vision, looking down from the ceiling of the ambulance (I remember very clearly this out of body experience, I even have a detailed picture, like a photo)...Then coma 3... Cranial trauma and left thighbone broken... Arrived at hospital about a quarter of an hour later in coma 2, , then coma 1 and staying in it, for 11 days...Very long 11 days for my relatives, especially for my mother who was there and more involved.


At my awakening I'm talking about a vision of myself, of my body in the ambulance covered by the orange blanket, then I describe myself as flying fast through a sequence of sceneries that seemed unlimited, peripheral vision, I'm observing the journey, I am the journey.


Firstly, there are black fields, a landscape of desolation. That I have been drawing later in therapy, filled with corpses, limbs and heads. Then crossing sandy deserts before arriving at a vast meadow covered with white flowers. Then a green hill, brightly colored, a path and a big door style, which is diffusing a very pure light, warm and mesmerizing, that has something sincere, something like a soul... This gigantic door is sitting way up at the hilltop, and I see myself going on this path towards it. I'm observing this little Jamin, but I am also this Jamin, I'm at the same time inside and outside, and the same applies to the hill and the scenery, and I have the impression to be in complete fusion with this environment, in an absolute well-being. This light, at which I am a part of, or that resembles me, comprises me, which pulls me irresistibly.


I'm also talking about a choice that I had been doing...


This world was much more real than many moments in my earthly life.  It is as if this day was engraved in me and changed me profoundly. I have the feeling to have known something at that moment.


These are the facts of what I experienced and what I remember...


Followed several month of rehabilitation, screws in the leg, as well as several years of medical examinations, various psychodrama therapies and drawing to integrate the accident and the 'dream', anguish and warmth, confidence and fear... During many years I didn't talk about it, little with my father, more with my mother, rarely, even so to speak not at all with my friends...Out of fear to be considered crazy or an extra-terrestrial. Apparently I changed quite radically after the accident, I considered myself 'invincible' during a few month, my mother told me - which was quite unmanageable for her - but also I asked my mother very soon to get me a teacher for piano, or opera song, or harp... I wanted to compose music, to paint; I wanted to be an artist.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    26 avril 1986

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death It was an accident.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  When I was apparently dead, in the ambulance, I saw my body covered by an orange colored blanket, which I talked about immediately, after coming out of my 11 day coma.
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I remember it as an obvious fact. I was part of a whole. I was my 'dream'. In this sense, it was more real than many moments in life... If this is what you call lucidity.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      While seeing the light of the door.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   No notion of time...It was at the same time long, because it was very rich, and very short.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    Panoramic vision.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I don't remember.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     I don't remember a tunnel, but rather having crossed a sequence of sceneries.

Did you see any beings in your experience?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   I described it above in my report. It was a extraordinary light, warm, mesmerizing, pure... Almost like 'a soul'.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     As described in my report: first  the 'flight' over the fields, of which some were black, then the meadow covered with white flowers, the green hill and the path leading to this gigantic 'arabo-andalous' door, that diffused an unbelievable light.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Warmth. Kindness. Peace. Extreme well-being.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about myself or others     I had the feeling to have known something important about myself, to understand 'everything' if you like, as it came as an obvious fact, and was inseparable from what I was (and still am).

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      No

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I came back with the feeling of having made a choice.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?      Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Unaffiliated- Agnostic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?      Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?      Unaffiliated- Agnostic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?      Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Uncertain     It certainly changed my relationship to humanity and my sensibility. Concerning my beliefs, I don't know, I was still a child.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?      No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?      No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?      No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?      God probably does not exist

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?      No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?      God probably does not exist

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Music arrived at that moment.

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?      Uncertain     Sur le sens de ma propre vie, oui, dans la mesure où j'ai l'impression que cette expérience m'a éclairé sur mes choix de vie postérieurs... M'a guidé en quelques sortes, vers l'art, la musique, la nature, la tolérance et le respect par exemple, ces "bonnes actions" qui sont importantes pour moi... J'ai l'impression que ma vie se déroule facilement, l.impression d'être guidé, c'est bien cela.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?      I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?      An afterlife probably exists

Did you fear death prior to your experience?      I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?      I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?      Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?     Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?      Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?      Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?      No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?      No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?      Not compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?      No

Were you compassionate after your experience?      Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?      Moderate changes in my life     I felt very different, during many years I tried to be NORMAL. I had problems to communicate and to feel myself included in a group, or even a community of ideas...

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  Due to the circumstances, yes.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Difficult to describe the vision, the colors, the feelings, the warmth and this light.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?    I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Being out of body and the light of the door.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Immediately after coming out of  coma I told my parents...then in therapy...As an adolescent, not to my friends(male or female). Then in 2003 it came back to me and I started to write and testify about this subject.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     My mother told me that I spoke about it in a way that I seemed to believe myself invincible.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     It's almost tangible.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Uncertain   I had dreams and some vague sensations. But nothing comparable.

</h5>  Experience Description 862I have had this experience during a coma due to an accident. I was unconscious but I remember a green hill and a road; I was looking at myself while climbing this road. At the top of the hill stood a magnificent and imposing 'Arabian/Andalusian' door. What was behind that door was dark, black -- but I don't know if this impression is due to a post-traumatic interpretation or if it is a real part of the 'dream'.


On the other hand, the power of the images and feelings of the first part (hill, road, and door) and the weight that they had and still have on my life convince me that it was a rather uncommon 'real dream'. I chose to come back; I don't know what motivated that choice.


This 'dream' has transformed me -- radical change of interests, development of new talents -- and the images are still within me, they come back from time to time.


Today, I have the feeling that this turning point event has a great hold over my life, over my sense of priorities.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    6/26/1986

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No   Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death Accident+traumatisme crânien+Coma 3, 2 et 1 pendant 1O jours.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I saw myself walking on the road, the hill.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was unconscious.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   No sense of time; the space was imposing, immense, I wasn't seeing any limit.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Just wind. I don't remember any other sound.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     The 'Arabian/Andalusian' door was obviously there -- and I was going toward it; but I repeat, I'm not certain that what I saw behind the door is not an interpretation that came up after the experience. The images are also there but they do not have as much weight as my walk toward that door.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Uncertain   There was much light, warmth, many vivid colors on the way to that door. But ONE particular light -- I don't think so.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The hill and the door were extraordinary beautiful.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Feelings of warmth, well-being; I was in a contemplative state, bewitched.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     At the moment, no. But the more I link my evolution, my urge to do creative works and my drastic change of mentality with this 'dream', the more I think that at this particular time I had access to some uncommon knowledge.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     Unfortunately, I don't remember.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I chose to come back, I don't know what motivated that choice -- but I know that I did decide to do so, that's all.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   AUCUN - Athé

What is your religion now?      Liberal   AUCUN - Athé

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I wasn't the same -- I did not have this urge to create and did not believe as much in Love and sensitivity.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   The power of the 'dream' and the sensations felt.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Mostly gifts related to an artistic sensitivity that manifested at that time.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best: this 'dream' image that transformed me and that is always present. The worst: the accident!! But there isn't any 'worst' part about the experience per se.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I talked about it with my parents and doctors but not so often with my friends. And it is the first time that I really wish to talk more about it. Reactions: my father helped me to forget, my mother helped me to understand, psychiatrists and healers, met afterward, helped me to transcribe and channel this 'dream'.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Uncertain   I never had any similar experiences, except at a party. I was a teenager and I had had too much alcohol and cannabis; I was 'gone' and felt a similar dizziness, but it had nothing to do at all with the power of the 'dream' -- I frequently have timeless dreams (without medication or substances) in which I travel wide spaces.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Everything has been written down when I came out from the coma; what I am stating today is only what I have been keeping to myself for eighteen years.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      The questionnaire is complete, no particular suggestion.

  					  					</p>

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jamin_a_nde.html