{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jamie_n_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Jamie N Probable NDE 3829","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jamie N Probable NDE 3829  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jamie N Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			1801 Jamie N Probable NDE 3829  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in a beautiful space that was filled with light. A male angel, whom I cannot describe other than as a being of light, was talking calmly to me. He told me that everything was going to be all right. I was going to come through this emergency and go on to live a very long and pleasant life. He said I would have little things happen as they do in life, but nothing really bad would happen to me. I would have mostly peace and much joy in my life. It was the most peaceful experience I have ever had. I was told that I had nothing to be afraid of and everything to live for.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  12/14/2000

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  IllnessSurgery-related    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I had suffered from peritonitis and my colon had burst. This was a life threatening medical issue that required emergency surgery.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was having the conversation with the angel.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was brighter and clearer than normal.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I don't remember passing through a tunnel or enclosure. I was just there in the incredible light with a angel of light.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     It was a male angel of light who was talking with me and walking with me.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Everything was surrounded with incredible light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace and great joy. A feeling of goodness and that all was okay.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     My life after this experience has improved immeasurably. I am a happier person since this experience. I used to be afraid of many things, like the dark, being alone, staying home alone, death, etc. I was always very fearful. Since this experience, I can stay at home for weeks at a time while my husband travels for work and be perfectly fine. In the past, this action on my husband's part would have caused serious arguments and grief.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believe that I am one with God or a higher being. I believe that earth is a learning ground that souls have chosen to live on to learn and grow. I believe that we all have a unique reason and purpose for being here and it is our goal to find out what that purpose is so that we may complete it. Once our purpose is completed, then we then pass on to the next realm.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe that I am one with God or a higher being. I believe that earth is a learning ground that souls have chosen to live on to learn and grow. I believe that we all have a unique reason and purpose for being here and it is our goal to find out what that purpose is so that we may complete it. Once our purpose is completed, then we then pass on to the next realm.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am much more tolerant, pleasant and positive in my relationships. I used to be afraid to be me and now I know that I am okay. I am much more outgoing and unafraid to show who and what I am. Because of this, I am much more accepted and loved than ever before. I believe that I hold a piece of that incredible light that I was immersed in and it shines out to all who meet me as love.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The exact description of the place is hard to explain.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I am much more intuitive than ever before. I also have premonitions. I had a premonition of my grandson telling me he was my joy. This took place more than a year before he was born.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It all was significant to me. Even today, eight years later, I can still feel the intense emotion that I had felt at the time of the NDE. I still feel confident that what the angel told me is true.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it with my husband and family after a few months of the experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had read several accounts of NDEs and listened to several accounts on 'Coast to Coast AM'.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I viewed the experience as real and true. Again, the immense emotional feelings are still with me.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     As a testament to the experience, I have had all of the experiences that the angel of light had promised me. I have been blessed with much joy and pleasantness in my life. My outlook is very positive and I often feel like I am a being of light myself.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       This experience is so powerful that the intensity of it never seems to fade. Even when little things in life can get you down, this experience keeps coming back to remind me that all is okay. This is the most positive thing that could have ever happened to me. :)      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jamie_n_probable_nde.html