{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1james_t_nde_3228.html","mytitle":"James T NDE 3228","mylang":"de"}
          	        James T NDE 3228  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					James T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1200  James T NDE  3228  				  				  			  	      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was in the hospital with my mother. I was suffering from an asthma attack and was rushed to the emergency room. As I lay on the bed, my breathing was becoming more difficult. As I observe my mother talking to the doctor, I became very sleepy. About fifteen seconds before, what I thought was falling asleep; I suddenly did not have difficulty breathing. The suffering ceased.

I then found myself walking through a long tunnel.  At the end of this tunnel was a large white, bright sun glowing. The funny thing about this light is that it did not hurt my eyes or cause any sensitivity to my eyes. I did not feel a sense of fear or extreme happiness, there was no emotion. As I walked toward the light, I remember calling for my mother, 'Mom?' I then stopped and a voice behind me said, 'Walk toward the light.' I did not recognize the voice, but it was calm. I started to walk again and just as I thought in my mind to turn around to see who this voice was, the voice said, 'Don't turn around.  Walk toward the light. Everything will be alright.' I continued to walk toward the light. I asked the voice, 'where is my mother?' The voice said 'Everything will be alright. Walk to the light.'

I then woke up with the doctors performing chest compressions on me. Upon awakening, I experienced a jerking body motion. My mother was crying and the doctor said, 'He's back.' The doctor said to me, 'Son, we almost lost you.' I was not having the difficulty breathing, but the doctor gave me a shot. My mother through tears began to hug me and I asked her where was she? She said 'I was here.' This is what I remember of that experience.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    1961

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Illness    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) .  I had a severe asthma attack.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  
No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   The whole experience I was alert and aware.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      The whole experience I was alert and aware.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     A dark tunnel with a very bright, white sun like glow at the end of it.

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I heard a voice behind me but it instructed me not to turn around.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   White sun-like.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      No emotions. Just an intense peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     There's life after death, and there's a spirit world and spirit beings.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      No

What is your religion now?      Liberal   Non-Denomination

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  I'm more aware of things seen and unseen.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     See and sense spirit beings. Can tell some future events. Can tell people what has happened or is going to happen in their life. Witnessed UFO's three times in my life. I think I spoke with and met with spirit beings several times.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The feeling of peace - I can't describe.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    My mother and doctor at the time. Others through my life. People are skeptical. My mother believes me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     It was real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     It was very real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   During a car crash in 1978 I heard the same voice and saw visions.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Contact me, I can explain, but I also would like some answers.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1james_t_nde_3228.html