{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 6778","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v1_n15_apr_1885.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V1 N15 April 1885","mylang":"de"}
No. XV.] [APaIL, 1886
JOURNAL
OF THB
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTBN.T8.
PAGK P40.
ColDlcU Meeting . . .. .. •• an IDonation. .. .. .. .. .. .. . . .. m
)few Membel'l aDd AssocIAtes •• •. •. 822 Case. received bJ' the Literary Committee 325
Library Catalogue . . . . . . . . • .• 822 Dr. Taguet'. PaUent at Bordum: .. .• 808
Mr. Hodgson', Investigation. In IndiA .• 828
COUNCIL MEETING.
At a Council Meeting held on the 10th of April, the following Mem-
bers were present :-Messrs. Alexander Calder, Edmund Gurney, C. C.
Massey, Edward R. Pease, Frank Podmore, Professor H. Sidgwick, and
Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood. Professor Sidgwick took the chair.
After the reading of the Minutes of the previous Meeting, five new
Members and eighteen new Associates were elected, whose names and
.addresses are given in another page.
It was agreed that Major de Witt J ebb should, at his request, be
elected as a Member instead of an Associate.
Letters of resignation were read from the Rev. R. W. Corbet, a
Member, and from Mr. Alfred J. Shilton, an Associate.
An anonymous donation of £10 was received through Mrs. Sidgwick,
to meet the expenses of lectures and other objects, for which a vote of
thanks was recorded, to be conveyed to the donor.
The Lillrary Committee reported having received a donation of £5,
to be spent in books, from Mrs. Myers, of Cheltenham. Presents to the
library were on the table from Mr. William Tebb and froJll Mr. H.
Venman, and are specially named in the Supplementary Catalogue. The
thanks of the Council were directed to be given to the donors.
At the request of the Rev. W. Stainton Moses, who was desirous of
Illinimising his work aR much as possible, it was agreed to remove his
name from the Library Committee.
A cash account for the month of March was presented, and several
payments authorised. The Treasurer called attention to the fact that
, many Members had not yet remitted their SUbscription for the current
year. It was agreed that a notice shou~d be inserted on the cover of
the next number of the Journal, requesting them to do so.
The next Meeting of Council will take place on Friday, the
24th inst., at 4.30 p.m., preyious to the General Melting to be held
in the evening of that day.
Digitized by Coog
322 JOUl'l1al of Society for P8.vckical Re8eal'cll. [AprlJ, 1885
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
,'.---
MEMBERS.
ALLEN, WALTER W., Topeka, Kanaas, U.S.A.
BAlIPFYLDE, HON. MRS., 144, Piccadilly, Lo~don, W. .
CHASE, LIEUTENANT W. S. L, V.C., D.A.Q.M.-General, Quetta District;
Beluchistan.
MONEY, COLONEL GERARD NOEL, C.B., F.R.G.S., Vigo House,Weybridge.
TuLLOCH, CONRAD, Linwood, Erith, Kent.
ASSOCIATES.
BADELIER, EMILE, Rangoon, British Burmah.
BRAYSHAW, JOHN L., Settle, Yorkshire.
CAMPBELL, ROBERT ALLEN, C.E., St. Louis, Mo., U.S.A.
DICKSEE, 'FRANK, 'A.R.A., 108, Peel Street, Campden Hill, Lolldon, W.
FOLKESTONE, THE VISCOUNTESS, 8, Ennismore Gardens, London, S.W.
GLOVER, JOHN J. T., 124, Stephen's Green, W., Dublin.
HASTINGS, MISS, 3, Ridgway-place, Wimbledon.
HORNE, ALDERSON, 46, Russell Square, London, W.C.
LOWE, FREDERICK J., J, Elm Court, Temple, London, E.C.
MILLER, MRS.WILLIAM PITT,lIarlewood, Grange-over-Sands, Lancashire-
MOLESWORTH, GUILFORD L., SimJa, India..
PODMORE, REV. THOMPSON, M.A., The College, Eastbournl'.
RATBDONNELL, THE DOWAGER LADY, Drumcar, Dunleer, Co, Louth.
RICKETTS, CAPTAIN C., Hawthorn Bank, Westbury Park, Bristol
SEYMOUR, CAPTAIN EDWARD H., R.N., United Service Club, Pall
Mall, London, S.W.
SIMPSON, REGINALD WYNNE; B.A., 14, Cornwall Gardens, London, S.W.
SOUTHWARD, REV. W. T., M.A., st. Catherine's College, Cambridge.
WALKER, FRANK COOPER, 21, Alma Square, St. John's 'Vood, London,
N.W.
SUPPLEMEliTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
The follCl'Wing additiom hau been. made aince last month.
PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW (The). Vol. I. ...........................Lotulon, 1879*
UNSEEN WORLD (The). :e dedit• ....................................London, 1853
'VENlIU.N (H.) Spiritl,lalism the Modem Mystery. From a Neutral
Standpoint.............................................................London, 1873:
* PreHnted by Mr. William Tebb. ::: Preaented by the Author.
Digitized by Google
April. 1885.] Joumal of Societll.for Psychical Re8em·ch. 323
MR. HODGSON'S INVESTIGATIONS IN INDIA.
Those members of our Society who have read the J!'irst Report of
the Committee appointed to investigate the Evidence for Marvellous
Phenomena offered by certain members of the Theosophical Society, will
be mterested to hear that Mr:Hodgson, a member ofthe Committee, has
been conducting the inyestigation on the spot energetically and im-
partially-; and that he is now, we believe, on his way back. He has al-
ready sent home a considerable mass of documents, including depositions
of witnesses mentioned in the First Report, &c. The additional evidence
is for the most part unfavourable to the genuineness of the phenomena,
and Mr. Hodgson inclines, we believe, to the conclusion that the alleged
marvels are altogether to. be attributed to fraud. His grounds for this
eonclusion, and his views as to the most probable explanation of the
marvels, will be fully discussed in a Second Report which will be pre-
sented to the Society shortly after Mr. Hodgson's return.
Mr. Hodgson found that the editor of the Madras Christian College
Magazine, who is now the possessor of the Blavatsky-Coulomb letters,
was quite willing to submIt the question of their genuineness to the
decision of a professional expert. Accordingly a certain number of the
letters, which Madame Coulomb affirms herself to have received froni
Madame Blavatsky in her own name, have been sent for examination
to the well-known expert, Mr. F. G. Netherclift, with some undisputed
specimens of Madame Blavatsky's handwriting. His report, which is
unfavourable to Madame Blavatsky, will be laid before the Society
along with the rest of the evidence. Meantime, the following descrip-
tion which Mr. Hodgson gives of an experience of his whenvisiting the
Coulombs, will at any rate show that the latter would be useful con-
federates in any conspiracy to produce fraudulent phenomena.
" Madras, January 9th, 1885.
" This morning I called upon the Coulombs, who are living at the house
of Mrs. Dyer in St. Thome. I conversed a short time with M. Coulomb
before Madame Coulomb appeared. In the course of the conversation that fol-
lowed I remarked, concerning certain cases of premonition, that I had no satis-
fact~ry theory at present to account for them. At this moment something
white a.ppeared, touching my hlloir, and fell on the floor. It was a letter. I
picked it up. It was addressed to myself. M. and Madame Coulomb were
sitting near me and in front of me. I had observed no motion on their part
which could account for the appearance of the letter. Examining the ceiling
as I stood I could detect no flaw ; it appeared intact. On opening the letter
I found it referred to the conversation which had just taken place. I tran-
scribe the words ;-
" , Because the existing cause of to-day foretells the effect of to-morrow-
a bud assures us beforehand the full-blown rose of to-morrow; on seeing a
fine field of corn in which are buried eggs of locusts, we are to foresee that
~oo<.~l :>
324 Journal Qf Society lor P'gchical Re8earch. [April. 1885.
that,corn will never enter the granary i by the appearance of consumptive
father and scrofulous mother a sickly child can be foretold. Now all these
causes, which bring to us these effects, have in their turn their effects them-
selves, and so, ad illjinitl,m; and as nothing is lost in Nature, but remains
impressed in the akasa., so the acute perception of the seer beginning at the
source arrives at the result witli exactitude.
, TuB NBw ADBPT, COLUMBUS.'
"M. Coulomb then described the origin of the letter."
A large beam supported the ceiling, and resting on this, at right angles to
it, was a series of small beams with SpaceR between them. These spaces were
filled with blocks of wood, with mortar to keep them in place. Part of thia
mortar had been scraped out on the top of the large beam and between two
smaller ones, so that a letter could be inserted and lie flat on the top of the
large beam. "Round the letter was twice passed a piece of thread of the same
colour as the ceiling. One end of the thread remained loose on the letter, the
other end was in the hand of a person outside the room. The thread
ran from the letter, close to the ceiling, passed outside and hung down. I was
sitting under the main beam. The subject of conversation was led up to,and
at the given signal (a call to the dog) the confederate in the verandah beyond
pulled the thread and the letter fell. The confederate drew the thread.
entirely away and left the spot. The crevice for the letter might, in a few
moments, have been stopped up and covered with dust, so that no apert~
whatever appeared in the neighbourhood of the ceiling."
It will be remembered by those who have read the First Report of
the Committee, that in the introduction to Appendix XXVI. they
stated that all accounts of letters falling at "Headquarters" must, they
thought, be regarded with suspicion, on account of the construction of the
Indian ceilings. And though the one in question is somewhat different
to that which they had in their minds, the narrative just given shows
that this suspicion was well founded.
Copies of the .First Report may still be obtained for 2s. 6d. by
Associate~ who have not yet had one, by a.pplying to the Assistant-
Secretary, 14, Dean's Yard, S.W.
HAUNTED HOUSE.
Members and ABSOOiates desirous of occupying for a time a I!Dlall house
reputed to be haunted, with a view of investigating the phenomena, are
invited to communicate with F. Podmore, Esq., 14, Deau's Yard, S.W. It
it is not, of course, guaranteed that arrangements can be made with all
applicants. The house is partly furnished, and is in a pretty part of the
country, not very far from London. .
DONATIONS RECEIVED.
£ s. d.
Mrs. Myers (of Cheltenham) for Library Fund 5 0 0
Anonymous to meet expenses of lectures or other objects •.. 10 0 0
Digitized by Google
.April, l88II.] Journal o/8ocietujor P8.l/chical Re8earch. 326
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITl'EE.
(Oontinued.)
The narratives now printed have been collected by Mr. Gurney.
who is the author of the remarks prefixed and appended to some of them.
In the following case, there is a certain presumption that the vision
was telepathic, in the fact that the hallucination was unique in the per-
cipient's experience, and that the agent's thoughts must have been very
much occupied with her at the time. But the fact that the experience
was not mentioned at the time is of course an evidential flaw.
L.-1554-Ae pn
From Mrs. Beaumont, I, Crescent Road, S. Norwood.
Febr'l.ul/1'1J 24tl,. 1885.
One day in the 40's, when I was living in the Rectory at Marl-
borough, my father's house, my mother and sister had gone out. and I
was lying on a sofa in the drawing.room, at about 3 p.m. I was
reading a book. when tbe Hght seemed to be slightly darkened, and
looking up I saw, leaning in at the window farthest from me, about
three feet from the ground, and beckoning, a gentleman whom I had
only seen once, about a fortnight or three weeks previously. Supposing
that my father wanted me to sign my name (as a witness to a lease, or
something of that kind) I got up, went out of the window (which led
down into the garden), and passed along in front of the house, and up
six steps into my father's study, which was empty. I then went into
the yard and garden, but found nobody; so I returned to my sofa and
my books. When father came in, two hours afterwards, I said. "Why
did you send Mr. H. to call me, and then go away t" My father replied.
"What are you talking about' H. is down in Wales." Yothing more
was said. I did not like to dwell on·the subject to eitherof my parents,
and I did not mention the occurrence to anyone for several years.
About a fortnight afterwards I was told by my mother that Mr. H.
had written,' proPOs\ng for my hand (some property of his
adjoined some property Df my father's in Wales). I cannot
fix exactly how close the coincidence was; but my strong im-
pression is that the letter was received within 24 hours of
my experience. Bh~re I was told of the contents of the letter, I
remember that 1 found the blue envelope of Mr. H.'s letter (with
T. H. on the comer, and with the coat-of-arms on his seal, and with the
postmark Llandilo) on the ioor in my father's study. When the news
was told me, I seemed to receive. some expla.na.tion of my vision.
I have never had any hallucination or vision at any other time,
.except when I saw the "little brown lady" at Kintbury.*
C. BEAUMONT.
• This was aD apparitioD frequently seen by the residents in a particular
110Dll8. .
Digitized by Google
326 Journal qj Society for P8ychical Re8earch. [April; 1885.
L.-1555.-AD pn
From Capt. Alex. S. Beaumont, I, Crescent Road, S. Norwood Park.
February 24tlt, 1885..
. About September, 1873, when my father WI!S living at 57, Inverness
Terrace, I was sitting one evening, about 8.30 p.m., in the large dining-
room. At the table, facing me, with their backs to the door, were seated
my mother, sister, and a friend, Mrs. W. SuddenlyI seemed to see my
wife bustling in through the door of the back dining-room, which wn.s in.
view from my position. She was in a 'I'Il.auve dress. I got up to meet her~
though much astonished as I believed her to be at Tenby. As I rose, my
mother said," Whoisthat 1" not(Ithink)seeing anyone herself,but seeing
tha.t I did. I exclaimed, " Why, it's Carry,"anda.dvancedtomeet her. As
I advanced, the figure disappeared. On inquiry, I found that my 'fife-
was spending that evening at a friend's house, in a mauve dress, which
I had most certainly never seen. I had never seen her dressed in that
colour. My wife recollected that at that time she was talking with
some frien'ds about me, much regretting my absence, as there was going'
to be dancing, and I had promised to play for them. I had been
unexpectedly detained in London. ALEX. S. BEAUMONT.
The following corroboration is from the friend, Mrs. W., who was.
.present :--
11, Grosvenor Street, W.
March 5tlt, 1885.
As far as I can recollect, Captain Beaumont was sitting talking, when
he looked up, and gave a start. His mother asked him what was the-
matter. He replied, "I saw my -:rife walk across the end of the room,
but that is nothing, she often appears to people; her servants have seen
her several times." The room we were in was a double dining-room, one-
end was lit with gas and the other, where Mrs. Beaumont appeared, was,
comparatively dark. Noone else saw her except her .husband. Mrs.
'Beaumont was at the time in Wales, and this happened in Inverness.
Terrace, Bayswater. FLORENCE WHIPHAli.
From Mrs. Beaumont.
I distinctly remember hearing from my husband, 'either the next·
day or the second day after his experience; and in his letter he asked,
" What were you doing at such an hour on such a night 1" I was a.ble.
to recall that I was standing in a group of friends, and that we were.
regretting his absence. I was in a mauve dress, which I am confident.
that he could never have seen. . C. BEAUMONT.
Captain Beaumontadds: "I have never had any other hallucination
of the senses" except on the following occasion.
[This other occasion, in which the same agent and percipient were.
Aprfl,'i885.] . ·Journal of Society forP8'Yckical Re8earch.' 321
concerned, and a third case in which the same; agent was concerned.....
·would be quite without evidential value if they stood alorie; but they
are'of -interest in connection with the foregoing stronger case.]
From Oaptain Beaumont.
February 24tlt, 1885.
In 1871 I was staying at Norton House, Tenby, for the first time,
and had just gone to bed, and· was wide awake. I. had the candle on
my right side, and was reading. At the foot of the bed and to th~
right was a door, which was locked, and, as I learnt l!iterwaros, pas~d
up ·on the other side. .. .
Through this I saw the figure of my future wife (the lady of the
house) enter, draped in white from head to foot. Oddly enough, I was
not specially startled. My idea was that some one was ill, and tha.t
she had come to get somethin,g out of the room. I averted my head,
and when I looked up again the apparition was gone. I suppose that I
saw it for two or three seconds. ALEX. S. BEAUMONT.
From Mrs. Beaumont.
February 24tl" 1885.
In 1872, two or three months after my: marriage, Captain Beaumont
and I returned from London to Tenby. I went up into my dressing-
room and gave the keys of my luggage to my servant, Ellen Bassett.
I was standin,g before the looking-glass with my back turned to her, ana
I heard her utter a little sharp cry. I turned round, sayin,g, "What's
the matter," and saw her with my nightcap in her hand. She said.
" 0, nothing, nothing," and I went downstairs. The day after my.hu.
band saw her takin,g oft' the paper w1p.ch pasted up the door between my
bedroom and the dressing-room. He sa.id, "What are yon doing 7"
She said she wasopeningthat door. He sa.id, "Why, the:first nightthatI
slept in this house, I saw your mistress walk through that door." (I must
explain that Captain Beaumont had been a guest in this house on a
good many occasions before our marriage. On the occasion mentioned,
he had imagined that perhaps someone wasill in the house, and that I
had entered bis room to get somethin,g, thinkinghim sure to be asleep.)
Then the maid told him that she had seen me the night before we came
home-she did not know exactly what day we were coming, and had
been sleeping in the same bed as he had been in when he saw me. She
was just going to step into bed, when she saw tile enter "through the
door," with a nightcap on, and a candle in my hand. She was so
terrified that she rushed out ofthe room by the other door, and told the
other servants she was sure I was dead. They comforted her as well
as they could, but she would :r.ot return to the room. The cause of her
crying out, when I heard her do so, was that, in unpackin,g; she
recognised the identical nightcap that,the apparition had worn. .The·
Digitized by Google
328 Journal of Societ!/for P8'J/chicnl Re8earcll. [April,1881i.
curious point is that the nightcap was one that I had bought in
London, and had not mentioned to her, and was perfectly unlike any
that I had ever wom before. It had three frills. I had been ac>-
customed to wear nightcaps of coloured muslin without frills.
The same servant, some months after the nightcap, went into the
kitchen and said to the other servants, " We shall have news of missus
to-day; I've just seen her standing in the dining.room door; she'd on a
black velvet bonnet and black cloak." (We had been in London some
weeks.) This occurred about 9 o'clock a.m. About 10.30 she received
a telegram from us to say we should b.! home that evening; the tele-
gram was sent from Paddington station as we waited for our train.
The bonnet and cloak had been bought in town without her knowledge.
The maid was with me for years, and was certainly not nervous or
hystericaL I have now parted with her for some years.
C. BEAUMONT.
L-I556-AD pn
From Miss E. M. Churchill, 9, Eversley Park, Chester. (Procured
through Miss Porter, who knows the na.rra.tor well.)
At.tg'IUt, 1884.
In October, 1883, being in Toronto, Canada, at the time, I thought
I saw my youngest sister come into the ante·room next to the room
where we were seated at lunch. I exclaimed, and then thought I had
been mistaken, of course, and that one of my cousins who resembled her
solJlewhat in appearance had come to lunch, but found no one was there
at all, nor had anyone come into the room. I remember remarking a.t
the time that I thought I saw my sister all in brown, and that she
had nothing of that colour as far as I knew. A few days afterwards I
received a letter from another sister, in which she mentioned that my
youngest sister and she had been getting new winter things, and were
dressed in brown from head to foot.
I think I was quite well at the time, but my sister was ill, which I
.was not aware of for some weeks afterwards.
E. M. CHUBCIIILL.
It is rarely that the cases of the AD PD type (Agent normal-
Percipient normal) can be regarded as evidence of telepathy. There
·being no perceptible coincidence, the phantasm may alwa.ys be regarded
as a purely subjective hallucination. In the foregoing cases the dreu is
the point which affords a. certain presumption in favour of telepathy.
In the next case, a similar presumption is afforded by the fact that the
phantasm was seen by two people, one of ,.,hom had never seen the
supposed agent, and yet correctly described his appearance.
Digitized by Google
April, 1885.] Journal of 80cietyfor P81Jckical Research. ,329
L-1557-AU pa
From Mrs. Elgee, 18, Woburn Road, Bedford.
Harcl, 1st, 1885.
In the month pf November, 1864, being detained in Cairo, on my
way out to India, the following curious circumstance occurred to me :-
Owing to an unusual in1lux of travellers, I, with the young ,lady under
my charge (whom we will call D.) and some other passengers of the
outward-bound mail to India, had to take up our abode in a somewhat
.nfrequented hotel The room shared by Miss D. and myself was large,
lofty, and gloomy; the furniture of the scantiest, consisting of two small
beds, placed nearly in the middle of the room and not touching the
walls at all; two or three rush-bottomed chairs, a very small washing-
stand, and a large old-fashioned sofa. of the settee sort, which was
placed against .one-half of the large folding-doors which gave entrance
to the room. This settee was far too heavy to be removed, unless by
two or three people. The other half of the door was used for entrance,
and faced the two beds. Feeling rather desolate and strange, and MissD.
being a nervous person, I locked the door, and taking out the key, put it
under my pillow; but on Miss D. remarking that there might be' a
duplicate which could open the door from outside, I put a chair a.gainst
the door, with my travelling-bag on it, so arranged, that on any
pressure outside one or both must fall on the bare floor, and make noise
enough to rouse me. We then proceeded to retire to bed, the one I
had chosen being near the only window in the room, which opened with
two glazed doors, al.ruost to the floor. These doors, on account of the
heat, I left open, first assuring myself that no communication from the
outside could be obtained. (The window led on to a smaU balcony,
which wasisolated, and was three stories above the ground.) I suddenly
woke from a sound sleep with the impression that somebody had ca1lef;l
me, and, sitting up in bed, to my unbounded astonishment, by the clear
light of early dawn coming in through the large window before-
mentioned, I beheld the figure of an old and very valued friend whom
I knew to be in England. He appeared as if most eager to speak to
me, and I addressed him with, "Good gracious! how did you come
here ~ " So clear was the figure, that I noted every detail of his dress,
even to three onyx shirt studs which he always wore. He seemed to
come a step nearer to me, when b"l suddenly pointed acroES the room,
and on my looking round, I saw Miss D. sitting up in her bed, gazing at
the figure with every expression of terror. On looking back, my friend
seemed to shake his head, and retreated, step by step, slowly, till he
seemed to sink through that portion of the door where the settee stood.
I never knew whathappened to me after this ;but my next remembrance
is of bright sunshine pouring through the window. Gradually the
Digitized by Google
330 Jourllai of Society for, P8ychical Re8eara,. [April,1885.
remembrance of what had happened came ba.ckto me; and the question
arose in my mind, had I been dreaming, or had I seen a visitant from
another world 1the bodily presence of my friend being utterly impossible.
Remembering that Miss D. had seemed aware of the figure as well as
myself, I determined to allow the test of my dream or vision to be
whatever she said to me upon the subject, I intending to say nothing
to her unless she spoke to me. As she seemed still asleep, I got out of
bed, examined the door carefully, and found the chair and my bag
untouched, and the key under my pillow; the settee had not been
touched, nor had that portion of the door against which it was placed
any appearance of being opened for years. Presently, on Miss D.
waking up, she looked about the room, and noticing the chair and ba.g~
made some remark as to their not haling been much use. I said~
"What do ypu mean 1" and when she said, "Why, that man who was
in the room. this morning must have got in somehow." She then
proceeded to describe to me exactly what I myself had seen. Without
giving any satisfactory answer as to what I had seen, I made her rather
angry by affecting to treat the matter &.II a. fancy on her part, and
showed her the key still under my pillow, and the chair and bag
untouched. I then asked her, if she was so sure that sbe had seen
somebody in the room, did not she know who it was f " No," said she,
"I have never seen him before, nor anyone like him." I
said, "Have you ever seen a photograph of him 1" She said,
"No." This lady never was told what I saw, and yot
described exactly to a third person what we both had seen.
Of course I was under the impression my friend was dead. Such,
however, was not the case; and I met him some four years later,
when, without telling him anything of my experience in Oairo, I asked
him in a jokingway could he remember what he was doing on a certain
night in November. 1864. "Well,"he said, "you require me to have
a good memory" ; but after a little reflection he replied. "Why that
was the time I was so harassed with trying to decide for or d.g&inst
the appointment which was offered me, and I so much wished you
could have been with me to talk the matter over. I sat over the fire
quite late, trying to think what you would have advised me to do."
A little cross-questioning and comparing of dates brought out the
curious fact that, allowing for the difference of time between England
and Oairo, his meditations over the fire and my experience were
simultaneous. Having told him the circumstances above narrated, I
asked him had he been aware of any peculiar or unusua.lsensation. He
said none, only that he had wanted to see me very much.
E. H. ELGEE.
In anSwer to inquiries, Mrs. Elgee says :-
DEAR SIR,-I fear it is quite impossible to get any informatioa
Digitized by Google
April,1885.] Journal of Society for P81lckical Re8enrch. 33t
frOm Miss "D. She married soon after we reached India, and I never-
met her since, nor do I know where she is, if alive. I quite under-·
stand the .value of her corroboration, and at the time she told the
whole circumstance to a fellow traveller, who repeated it to me, and
her story and mine agreed in every particular, save that to her the-
visitant was a complete stranger, and her tale was quite unbiassed by
mine, as I always treated hers as a fancy, and never acknowledged I
had been aware of anything unusual having taken place in our room
at Cairo. I never have seen, or fancied I saw, anyone before or since,.
though I have steadily tried to force my friend, Mril. Beaumont, whose-
curious power of duplication (to coin a word) you are doubtless aware-
of, to appear to me.
My visitant, also, is dead, or he would, I know, have added his.
testimony, small as it was, to mine. He was a very calm, quiet, clever,.
scientifio man, not given to vain fancies on any subject, and certainly
was not aware of any desire of appearing to me.-Believe me, yours.
truly, E. H. ELGEE.
L.-1558-Ad po
From Mr. H. King, Royal Military College, York Town, Farnborough.
Station, Hants.
March, 1885.
On Thursday night, October 30th f1884JH. M. and I went to dine.
at Broadmoor. We stayed till 10 p.m. or so, and on leaving the house
were talking of different things, M. being quite as usual; when after-
five minutes' walk M. suddenly stopped and said, "Look, look! oh.
look! " We thought nothing of it at first, but he still kept pointing
with his finger at some imaginary thing in the darkness. .The spot we·
were in was very dark, with a wood on our right and a field on our left,
separated from us by a railing. Thinking M. saw somebody hiding:
behind a bush I went forward, but saw nothing. M. hOW, still saying;
"Look at 'her, look at her," fell back against the niiling and lay
motionless with his back against it. We ran to him, asking him what.
was the matter, but he only moaned. After a while he seemed better.
We wanted him to come on, but he said "Where is my stick 1" which.
he had dropped. " Oh, never mind your stick," I said, for I was afraid
of not being at the college before the shutting of the doors; but he·
would look for his stick, which he found by lighting 0. match. We
walked on together; M., notwithstanding all my efforts to get bim into
conversation, not saying a word. After walking for about a quarter of
a mile, he suddenly said, "Where were they ca.rrying her to 1 I tell
you they were carrying her; didn't you see them carrying her 14 , t
tried to quiet him, but· he kept on saying, "I tell you they·
were carrying her." In a short time·he was pacified and walked!
Digitized by Google
:332 Journal Qf Societ!l.for Psychical Researcn. [April, 1885.
-quietly on for half a mile or so, when be said, looking
:round in surprise, "Hullo! we must have come a short cut.
I know this house." I said we hadn't; but he said, "We must
have run then. It seems only a minute ago since we left
the house." He several times expressed his surprise at the
quickness we had done the last half-mile in. He was all right from
this to the college. On Sunday morning he told me that something
very bad had happened on Thursday night. An old lady who was very
fond of him, but whom he hadn't seen for a long time, had died
suddenly of heart disease. She had been out somewhere and had
·come home, when, as she was receiving some friends, she fell dead,
.and, to use his words, she was carried out. I immediately asked him
.at what hour did she die 1 He said at between 10 and 11. (It was a
little after 10 when he saw his vision.) I could not get the exact hour
of the lady's death, as he didn't; like the subject. When he told me
-this he knew nothing of what occurred on the walk home. When he
was told of it he didn't remember a thing about the vision; but said
if he hadn't known that he hadn't drunk anything (which was true),
he wouid have said he had been drunk He seemed to have been in
a sort of stupor all the time. I think I ought to mention that he told
·me long before this that he had seen avwon of a girl who had been
-drowned. [This other vision followed closely on an accident which
had much distressed the percipient.-E. G.l
This is a true account of what happened.
Signed-
H. Knm (the writer of the above).
A. HAlIlILTON-JONES.
Mr. H. King adds :-
My friend remembers perfectly M.'s not being surprised at the news,
(of the death] and his saying it seemed to have happened before.
[Mr. R. A. King, (of 36, Grove Lane, Denmark Hill) uncle of the
narrator, through whose kindness we obtained this account, says :-" M.
has such a horror of the whole affair that my nephew does not let me
write to ask him about the old lady's death." Weare thus unable to
verify the date of the death independently. M.'s name is known to
·me. He has left the Military Collel{e.]
The following two letters were written by the late Mrs. Clarke,
·third wife of the late Thomas Clarke, of Bishopton Close, Ripon, to
Mr. William Fowler Stephenson, son, by a former marriage, of the said
'Thomas Clarke's second wife. The letters were given by Mr. Stephen-
Digitized by Google
April, 1&!5.} Jou1'nal Cif Sociei,l/ for P8ychical Re8earclt. \3~3;
son to his cousin, the Rev. J. T. Fowler, of Bishop Hatfield's Hall,.
Durham, from whom we obtained them.
L.-1559-Ae pn
October 17th, 1872:
On the morning of my father's death, between 4 and 5 o'clock, I
saw a sort. of shadowy light at the foot of my bed, and half arose to.
look at it. I distinctly saw my fa.ther's face, smiling at me. I drew
the curtains apart, and still saw him looking fixedly at me. I awoke
the girl who was sleeping with me, and asked her to draw up the window-
blind. I then asked her if she saw anything. She said, "Nothing. It.
is too dark." I fancy I saw the vision for fully five minutes, and then
all was dark again. The face was bound under the chin, as usual in
death, and the cloth seemed stained, but not so deep as iron-mould
quite. On looking at my father's corpse, after returning to Hull, I told
an old friend, who was with me, that it was just so he looked at me,
except that the cloth was discoloured. She at once said: "Then he did
come to you, that's certain, for the cloth was stained, and I clu~nged it.
after daylight." It was within a few minutes of his death that I saw
him,and he was asking God to bless me. He was asking for me con--
tinually.-M. C."
In reply to a second application from Mr. Stephenson, asking for-
more particular information on certain points, Mrs. Clarke wrote :-
October 19t1~, 1872.
I had been in Harrogate for some weeks, and was confined to my
room from a feverish cold which caused restless nights. It was thought
necessary for one of the maids to sleep with me, so I asked her to draw-
up tho blinds. This was a little after 4 o'clock in the morning of the-
11th of November, 1846. On that same day, abo:xt 9 o'clock, by post,
I received the enclosed letter, being the first intimation I had of my
father's illness. He was taken ill on the Sunday; they wrote to me
on the Monday, and he died on Tuesday morning. I was then
23 years of age. My sister, Christiana, and a woman-servant attended
to my father. A faithful old friend, Mrs. Dible, came as soon as.
possible to do what was necessary on such occasions, and it was to
her that I mentioned what I had seen. She explained that, in the
excitement of the moment, they had used what had been the bottom
of an old blind, which, as soon as it was daylight, she saw was
stained, and changfld it herself. I can never explain what I folt on that
day, if it can be called feeling. They said I was like marble to look at,
and like'ice to touch.-l\L C.
The letter referred to by Mrs. Clarke announcing the illness of her-
father, was enclosed. Two persons had written to her on the same
DiciL bye o·
~34 Journal of SocietY. .for PS.lfckical Resl'.arck. [April, 1885.
:sheet :-lst. Mr. Jubb, a friend of the family; 2nd. Her brother,
Mr. J. Rollit, a solicitor in Hull. -
Hull, November 10t/~, 1846.
My DEAR MATILDA,-If you w18h to see your dear father alive.
you must come immediately you receive ibis; he is not likely to surviTe
long.-Yours truly, WK. JUDD.
DEAR TILL,-Father is, indeed, very ill, and I fear for his recovery.
Do not, however, distress yourself more than you can avoid, as he may
yet be spared to us.-Very affectionately, J. ROLLIT.
L.-1560-Ad pn
From the Rev. J. Barmby, Pittington Vicarage, Durham.
Ilecemher 29tlt, 1884.
What follows was communicated orally to the Rev. J. T. Fowler,
Librarian and Hebrew Lecturer in the University of Durham, by Mr.
Clarke, one of the principal tradesmen in Hull, on the 9th of October,
1872. Mr. Fowler took notes in writing of what Mr. Clarke told
'him at the time, which notes he handed to me in the same month of
October. I put them into the following form after receiving them, and
Itave no doubt of their substance and details being exactly given. The
events related had occurred about four years previously to Mr. Fowler's
interview with Mr. Clarke. .
llr. Clarke, of Hull, had known for 20 years a Mrs. Palliser, of the
same place. .She had an only child, a son called Matthew, who was' a.
.sailor.. Being of the age of 22, he had sailed from Hull to New York.
About a month after his departure, Mrs. Palliser came to Mr. Clarke
:in tears, and said, "Oh, Mr. Clarke, poor Mat's drowned." Mr. O. said~
" How have you got to know 7" She replied, "He was drowned last
night going on board the ship, in crossing the plank, and it slippea; I
:saw him, and heard him say, 'Oh mother." , She stated that she had been
in bed at the time, but was sure she was wide awake, and that she had
seen also her own muther,.who had been dead many yea.rs, at the bed.
foot, crying, and making some reference to the event. Mr. C. said to
her, "Oh, it's all nonsense, I don't believe anything of the sort." She
·earnestly persisted in her conviction, and called on Mr. C. perhaps half•
.a-dozen times during the ensuing week. In order to pacify her, he
undertook to write to the agent of her son's ship at New York. This
ahe had wished him to do, thinking that he, as a business man, would
.know better how to write than herself. After the dellpatch of the letter,
Mrs. P. kept ca.lling on Mr. C. about every week to ask if he had heard
anything. In about a month's time a letter arrived from New York,
addressed to " MrS. Palliser, care of Mr. Clarke." It was opened by
Mr. Clarke's son, in the presence of Mrs. Palliser, who, before it W&.el
. \ :.
Digitized by Google
April, 1885.] 'Journal Of' Society for' Psychical R6Ilearch. 335
~pened, said, " ,Aye,. that'll contain the news of his being drowned." The
letter conveyed the intelligence that Matthew Palliser, of such a ship,
.had been drowned on such a night through the upsetting of a plank as
he was going aboard the ship. The night specified was that of Mrs. P.'s.
vision.
Mr. Clarke described Mrs. Palliser as "a well-educated woman, a
very respectable old lady who had seen better days," about 65 years of
.age. She had, he said, been a widow for some years before her son was
.drowned. She was then living in a passage leading out of Blackfriars
Gate, in Hull.- He had seen her" thE: day before yesterday." She had
-.told the story" thousands of times," and it was well-known in Hull.
From the Rev. J.T. Fowler, of Bishop Hatfield's Hall, Durham.
November 26th, 1884.
DEAR SIR,-I know nothing about the case I mentioned to Mr.
Barmby beyonl;! what I gave him in writing.
Mr. Clarke, a tradesman in Hull [no connection with the above
Mr. Clarke, mentioned in 1559], told me of the case of Mrs. Palliser,
.and got her to come to his office, in Queen Street, Hull, for me to take.
-down from her own Jips the notes I gave to Mr. Barmby.
. I took great pains to get the whole of the story correctly, and
:should scarcely think Mrs. P. is still living, but could ascertain if .
,ne::essary. ,
You might write abou~ Mrs. Palliser to M. W. Clarke, Esq.,
Winterton Hall, Doncaster, his private address. His place of business
,(as wholesale tailor, &c.) is in Queen Street, Hull.-Yours faithfully,
J. T. FOWLER
Queen Street, Hull, or Winterton Hall, viA Doncaster.
January 20tl~, 1885.
In re Mrs. Palliser's Vision.
Widow Palliser was a woman who had seen better days, and worked
:for my firm, Clarke and Son, Clothiers, Queen Street, Hull. She had
;an only son, Matthew. I assisted her in getting him to sea. One
morning she came to me with tears rolling down her cheeks and said,
"Mat's dead; I saw him drowned! Poor' Mat, the last words he
:said were, 'Oh I my dear mother.' He threw up his hands and sank
to rise no more." I asked how she knew. She said, "I saw him going
·on board his ship, and the plank that he walked upon slipped on one
:side, and he. fell overboard between the quay and the ship and was
.drowned. My own mother, who had been dead many years, came to
the foot of my bed and said, 'PoorMat's gone; he's drowned.'''
I then said, "Why, Mat's in New York" (I always felt interested
in this woman and her son). "Yes," she said," he was drowned last
Digitized by Coog
336 Journal of Societ!l for P8ychicalBaearch. [April, 1885_
night at New York; I saw him." Mrs. P.'s object in coming to me-
was to ask if I would write to the agent in New York to ascertain the·
facta. I said I would, and wrote stating that a poor widow had an
only son on board such a ship, and she had A vision that an accident (I
said nothing about drowning) had happened to her son, and I would.
take it as a great favour if he would ascertain and tell me all particu-
Ia.rs. In about three to five weeks (she came day by day to ask if we·
had received a reply, always saying that she knew what the answer-
would be), ai; length the letter a.rrived. We sent for Mrs. P., and
before the letter was opened by my son, I said to her, II What will be
its contents 1" She at once and decidedly said that II Mat was.
drowned on the very night that she saw him, and in going on board the-
ship the plank slipped, and he fell overboard between the quay and the-
ship." So it was. Mrs. P. was then wearing mourning for Mat.
My son and half-ardozen young men can verify this if needful.
Mrs. P. died soon after. M. W. CLARKE.
Reproduction of the letter receivt!d from the agent of the ship, as.
near as I and my son can remember :-
New York, date unknown..
I have made inquiries of Matthew Palliser, age about 20, anel
learn that he fell oft' a plank in going on board his ship, and got·
drowned on...... The date was the same as Mrs. Palliser said.
The mate has charge of his chest, and will give it to his mother-
when the ship arrives in Liverpool.
In answer to inquiries, Mr. Clarke adds:-
.April 6tl" 1885.
We have no copy of the agent's letter, but both my son and myself·
and others are certain that Mrs. P.'s vision and the agent's account.
of the accident were tl~ tJame, both as to the time and cause, viz., that·
Mrs. P. saw her son slip oft'the plank in going on board his ship, and
that he was drowned between the quay and the ship; agent's account
that he fell oft' the plank and was drowned, at the time mentioned, be-·
tween the ship and the quay.
L.-1561-Ad PD
Mr. Thomas Young, of 20, Wilson Road, Birchfield, Birmingham;.
sent me an account of the following incident, as II often related" to-
him by his mother. I asked him to apply to his mother for a first-hand
account, whcih she gave in the following letter to him. Her account,
which was given independently, corresponcia exactly with his; which is.
Digitized by Google
April, 1885.] .Journal qf Society lor P8!1ckica1 Be8earch. 331
$Ome proof that the facts have not been distorted through lapse of
-memory.
6, Stonedale Road.*
Jan'UOll"!l 10eh, 1885.
My DBAR SON,-You ask me to relate Aunt Lucy's dream; it was
not a dream but a reality. You must know that Uncle Bennet was a
1iImali farmer, with a large family of 12 children, consequently some had
to go away from home. They lived in a small village a.t Treylion, near
St. Ives, Cornwall. Now what I am going to relate is about their
-daughter Betsy, who had taken a situation-I think at St. Ives. One
morning aunt woke up and saw, standing by her bedside, this daughter,
with her hair streaming all over her face, dripping wet, and she, poor
-thing, looking half-drowned. Aunt said, "Betsy, where have you
-come from 1" The weather being frightfully bad, she thought she had
~alked home through the wet. She told her to go and dry herself, but
,she vanished away. Poor aunt was dreadfully alarmed. They sent to
her place, and it appears she would go to Plymouth, and went in a little
:sailing-vessel; and that very morning the vessel was lost and all hands
perish~d. Now, my dear son, I can vouch for every word being true,
for aunt was a true Christian woman: I was a girl when she told me
-the unhappy incident, but it always made a most vivid impression on
me.-Believe me, dear son, your loving mother,
C. YOUNG.
L.-1562-Ad pn
From Mrs. B., Belgravia Institute for Trained Nurses, 263, Vauxhall
Bridge Road.
The narrator is unwilling to have her name published, as relatives
"!night object; but says that "the narrative can be verified by private
-communication."
December, 1884.
On the afternoon of Sunday, December 18th, 1864, myfather-in-
law, Mr. B., my husband, and I were sitting in the dining-room at D-
Hall. The room was a large one, about 26ft. by 30ft.; on one side
was the fireplace, with a door on each side; opposite the fireplace were
three windows; standing with your back to the fireplace, at the end
-of the room, on your right, were two more windows, and on your left a
blank wall. These windows were some height from the ground,
probably 7ft. or more, so that no one could look in unless standing on a.
cha.ir. It was dark, and we were sitting round the fire, the shutters
not having been closed. Mr. B. f&Cf4 the two windows, I sat on the
<lther side of the fireplace, with my back to the said windows.
* Now removed to 71, Highbnry Hill, Highbury, N.
Digitized by Google
338 . Journal Qf 8oc;et!/ for PS1/clu'cal Restart". [April, I8M-.
my husband being in the middle facing the fire. Suddenly Mr..
B. said, "Who is that looking in at the window 7.. pointing to the-·
furthest of the two windows. We laughed, knowing that no one
could look in, as there was nothing there for them to stand on. Mr. B.
persisted in his assertion, saying that it was a. woman with a pale face
and black hair; that the face was familiar to him, but he could not·
remember her name, and he insisted on my husband going round the-
outside of the house one way whilst he went the other. They, however,.
saw no one. • As they went out I looked at the clock. The time was;.
5.45 p.m. On the following Tuesday I heard ot the death of my
mother, lIrs. R., who had died at St. Peter's Port, Guernsey, exactly at
5.45 p.m. on Sunday, December 18th, the hour at which the face-
. appeared at the window. She had been delirous before her death, and
calling piteously'for me. Directly Mr. B. heard of her death he
exclaimed, "It was Mrs. R.'s face I saw at the window on Sunday"
(he had only seen my mother two or three times). We were not aware
that my mother was seriously ill. I do not presume to offer any
scientific explanation of these facts, but I firmly believe that my
mother s last thoughts were of me, her eldest child. I had only been
married two months, and she had not seen me since my wedding-day.
E. A. B.
Marcl~ 20th, 1885.
Both my father-in·law and my husband are dead. I know of no
independent way in which I can fix the date of the apparition, but I
know that my husband and I had been to chuIch that afternoon, and if'
you look in anyalmanack for 1864 you will see that December 18th in
that year was on a Sunday, and that was the day on which my mother
died. E. A. B.
The following case is from the same informant as the last. Ifthe per~
cipient's experience had been confined to the moaning heard in the night,
the incident would not have been worth attending to, as odd sounds at
night are very common phenomena, and may be accounted for by quite
normal causes. But the continuance of the sound during the day makes.
a decided difference.
L.-1563-Ae P December, 1884.
Some six years after the above occurrence, in the September of 1870,
my husband was at D. Hall for his holiday. His parents were
then living at Dieppe. He was roused O1;1.e night by a peculiar moaning,
as if some person or animal was·in pain. He got up, and went through
the house and out into the gardens and shrubberies, but could see.
nothing. He heard the same noise at intervals all that day, but could
not find out the cause. He returned .to London next day to find a
Digitized by Google
April, 1885.] JOll1'nal qf Sociefy Jor P8ycMcai Re8eorcl~. 339
telegram summoning him to Dieppe, as his mother was dying. When
he got into the house at Dieppe, the first sound he heard was a. repeti-
tion of the same noise that he heard at D. Hall, and he found it was
his mother who was making it, and he learned she had been doing so
for two days. She died a few hours after he arrived. We had no
knowledge of Mrs. B.'s illness at the time my husband heard the
noise.
My husband's parents had been obliged to leave D. Hall under
painful circumstances, and possibly the thoughts of her loved home ll1ay
have been paramount with Mrs. B., or it may have been that they Hew
to my husband, who was her youngest son. At any rate, my husband
always held that it was his mother's moaning he heard at D. Hall
though she was in France. She was speechless when he reached her.
ao no solution could be arrived at. E. A. B.
In reply to inquiries, the narrator says :-
My late husband was alone, at his old home in Norfolk, when ht' heard •
the moaning I told you of. He was shortly after (the same afternoon, I
think) telegraphed for to go to Dieppe to see his mother. He was quite
unaware till he got the telegram that she was ill. He returned to Selhurst.
where we were living, and where I was, on hiB way to Dieppe, and then
told me about this noise. On his return from Dieppe, after his mother's
death, he said, "You remember my telling you of the moaning I haard
at D-,--. The first sound I heard in the house at Dieppe was
the same, and it was my mother making it." He further added that
he was told she had made it for a day or two. I am pt'rfectly clear
about his hearing it first at night in the house, and on the following
morning in the shrubberies, which were a. little distance from the
house. I never heard either my husband or his father speak of ever
hearing sounds, or seeing anything befo~ or after the occurrences I have
mentioned. They were both matter-of-fact men, and very free from
superstitious ideas. 1 was a young woman at the time these things
took place (I am only 41 now), so my memory of them is very clear
and good. Six weeks or two months after my husband heard these
sounds, we were together at D--, and he showed me the spot
in the shrubbery where the sound had been loudest.
L.-1564-Ad pn
From the wife of a Captain in the Navy, who has given the names
and addresses of the persons concerned in confidence.
December 29tlt, 1884.
SIR,-I have for some time felt inclined, according to your request
Digitized by Coog
340 Journal Qf Societg for P8!/cltical Re8eal·ck. [April, 1885
for information on subjects connected wi~ psychical research, to relate
to you a peculiar circumstance which happened to some very near rela-
tives of my own. They were, at the time (as nearly as I can remember
in 1844), living in the Highla.nds, and the gentleman had some years
before parted from a brother living in Nottingha.mshire on very
unfriendly terms.
Sitting at breakfast one morD;ing with his wife (my sister), he saw
this brother pass the window, and so fully impressed was he that he
jumped up, calling to his wife to come to the haJl door to receive him.
They went, but on arriving did not see him, though the grounds were
searched and servants questioned. On the arrival of the post bag, a
letter came saying this brother was lying dangerously ill and most
anxious to see and be reconciled to his brother. Of course he went, but on
arriving heard he had died at the exact time he saw him pass the
window. .
I have often thought of' and spoken of this, to me, very r&-
, markable circumstance, and if at all bearing upon your requirements,
you are at perfect liberty to use it, only kindly suppress the names, the
son of one brother being still alive and ranking high in the military
service in India..-I am, sir, youra truly, C. A. F.
-In a second letter, she says ;-
In reply to your letter I regret to say I cannot, under any circum-
stances, permit my own, or my nephew'S name to be made public. He
is in the Colonies, and would, I am certain, be exceedingly indignant
at seeing or hearing of his name being in print. I may say the same
for myself, my husband and family; they wonld not hear of it.
The following cases of dreams have a precision which makes it
possible, or even probable, that they were telepathic in nature, supposing
telepathy to be a. fact in nature. It is important, however, to note that
we do not consider that the fact of telepathy could be prO'Ved by
dreams, at any rate until a very much larger number bf authentic cases
are forthcoming in which the correspondence with reality is of a very
close and detailed kind. The scope of possible dreams is so indefinitely
large as to prevent here any definite confutation of the argument that
the ~orrespondences and coincidences which"have been noted have been
accidental. At the same time, if telepathy be proved by the stronger
cases, where the percipient is awake, there is evel'Y reason to suppose
that other cases might also occur in sleep. For there is nothing in the
condition of sleep which we have any ground for supposing adver8e to
the telepathic influence. The evidence for telepathic dreams is therefore
well worth collecting.
Digitized by Google
April, 1885.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 341
L.-1565-Ae PI
From Mrs. Denroche, 1, Berkeley Villas, Pittville, Cheltenham.
February 23m, 1885.
DEAR SIR,-I received your letter yesterday,and in compliance
with your request shall relate my dream. Long years ~ve passed
since the Easter morning when I awoke from it, but so vivid it was and
80 greatly it impressed me, I have no difficulty in recalling it. My
cousin,Mr. Wright,knew of my brother's emigration,and also knew who
the gentleman was (Mr. R.) at whose house he died. This gentleman
had gone out to Australia three years before my brother, and having
ample means, had established himself there comfortably. We had all
been on intimate terms with him except my brother Stephen, who was
one of a shy, reserved nature, never caring to make friends. We were
unaware of the fact of Mr. R. having gone to Australia till nearly a
year after my brother's departure, but upon hearing of it my mother
wrote to my brother telling him to make his way to Mr. R.'s settle...
ment, as she would feel so happy to think he was near a friend whoSe
advice, &c., would be beneficial. His reply to this letter was that the
great distance, nearly 300 miles, precluded any possibility of their
meeting, as the journey should nearly altogether be accomplished on
foot, and that he preferred staying in the neighbourhood of Sydney, &c.,
&c. He wrote·very seldom, and the subject was not renewed, and we
lost all thought of their ever coming together.
On the Easter morning I dreamt that I was looking out of my bed-
room window, and that I saw :Mr. R. walking up the avenue, and that
knowing him to be in Australia, I felt so surprised and pleased that I
ran down to meet him at the glass portico. When I put out my hand
I said, "Oh how glad I am to see you again." He looked so sad and said,
"You will not be glad, as I bring you sad news. Your brother Stephen
is dead." I awoke at the moment, and it seemed as though the words·
were sounding in my ears. When the servant came to assist me to
dress I told her my dream, and to comfort me she said that dreams
always went by contraries, "and that he was most likely being married,"
but said 1 must not tell this dream to my motheror to anyone who might
do so, as my brother writingso seldom always made her so anxious and
unhappy; andsoactinguponheradviceIdidnotspeakof it,but the thought
of it constantly recurred during the four months that intervened between
the Easter and a visit to Bangor, in Wales, where a letter from Mr. R.
was forwarded to me. He wrote to me for the reason that he thought
I could more gently break the sad news to my dear mother, and his
letter commenced almost with the same words that I had heard in the
dream. He told how that a fortnight before his death my brother had
reached his home sadly out of health, and worn with the toilsome
Digitized by Google
342 Journal of Society for P81Jchical Research. [April, l.885..
journey. At once he became too ill to write, and continued so till he
died on Easter Sunday morning.-Yours very truly,
OLIVIA A. DENROCnB.
In reply to inquiries, Mrs. Denroche adds :-
February 6tll, 1885.
My brother died in 1843, as I said, at Easter. When Mr. R. wrote
to inform me of it I do not recollect if he mentioned the hour. Ria
letter was dated Easter Sunday. The death might have been hours
before. My dn>,am of it was very early, about 6 o'clock. The old
serva.nt to whom I told it has been dead more than 20 years. My
dear mother felt so thankful with the assurance that my brother had
made his way to Mr. R.'s house, and that his last hours were rendered
comfortable by nursing and medical attendance, whereas he might have
died on his journey, and we possibly should never have been made
aware of it. .
• I have never had any 'distressing or very remarkable dream save
this one:
[This dream must have preceded the death by a good many hours.]
L.-1566-Ad pa
l\irs. P., of -- Rectory, writes :-
Marcl.4th,1885.
My niece has written down the dream. She adds to her plain
account, in writing to me, that she thinks it rather more remarkable
that she should have dreamt it, being a person who hardly ever dreams,
unlike her mother and sister, who never sleep without dreaming. She
also says she has often regretted not having written it down at the time,
but can safely sign allshe has stated. J. L. P.
Marcl. Src/,1885.
My aunt has asked me to try and recall a dream that I
dreamt many years ago about an old man, the road-mender: in our
village, whom I had known and loved from my earliest childhood. He
was naturally a bright cheerful old man, but was at the time I am
speaking of in extremely low spirits on account, as we supposed, of his
wife, who was very ill and wretched, lying on what proved to be her
death bed. On the morning of my dream my sister and myself had both
been awake at 6 o'clock, and I had fallen asleep again before the servant
came in as usual about 7 o'clock. On my waking from this sleElp, I
told my sister that I had had a very painful dream about old William
Digitized by Google
April, 1885.] Journalnj Societ!l lor P8ychical Re8earch. 343
'Thompson, whom I had seen in my dream running down the lane
-towards the Church fields, in his grey stockings,looking very miserable,
·.and I turned to her and said, I fear old William isgoing to make away
-with himself. I had hardly finished telling my sister the dream, when
'Our servant came in to ca.ll us, and said that our father (the rector of
the parish) had been sent for in a great hurry to old William
'Thompson, who had justbeen found in the Church fields with his throat
eut. He was without his shoes, and when my father got to him, he was
tStill alive. These are the circumstances as a.ccurately related as I can
reca.ll them.
S. S. p.
In answer to an inquiry, Miss P. says :-
I enclose a. copy from the register ofWiIliam Thompson's burial; and
.1 hear from his niece that he died on a Sunday.
The entry is-WiIliam Thompson, April 7th, 1869,82 years.
S. S. P.
In answer to a further letter of mine Miss P. says:-
MarcIl 11th.
DEAR SIR,-I enclose a letter from my sister to confirm the truth
-of the account of my dream; but I still adhere to my resolution of
not wishing to have my name published, as I rea.lly take no interest in
the ~iety for Psychical Research and have simply related my dream
as my aunt expressed a wish that I sh9uH do 80. I may add that I
:am not generally a dreamer and have no recollection of a.ny otherdream
.about death.-BeIieve me, yours truly, S. S. P.
j[arc/~ 11th.
DEAR SIR,-I fear I cannot tell you more about my sister's dream
:than she has already stated, but as you wish to have what she has said
confirmed by another person, I will add that I perfectly remember her
telling me the dream before the servant came into the room and told
lIlS ofthe sad death of the old man.-Yours truly, J. M. P.
L.-1567.-Ae pa
[The" Agent" being presuml.l.bly Mrs. Seymour.]
From Mrs. Saunders, St. Helens, near Ryde.
j[arc/~ 18tl£, 1885.
Towards morning of the 10th January, 1885, I was cOIllicious of a
"young woman standing by my bedside clad in a grey dressing-gown,
'holding in her arms, towards me, 0. child. The woman was. weeping
'bitterly, and said, "Oh! Mrs. Saunders, I am in such trouble." I
instantly recognised her as Mrs. C. R. Seymour, and ,vas about to
Digitized by Google
344 Journal,!' Society lor P,ychical Raearcll. [April, 1~
interrogate her as to her trouble, when I was awakened by my husband
asking me what was the matter, as I seemed so distressed. I told him
I had had such a sad dream about poor Fanny Goodall (maiden name-
of Mrs. C. R.8.), but it really was to me more than a dream, so much
so, that after rising I communicated it to the governess, Miss Monk-
man, also to the nurse and servant. I decided to send to her mother,.
Mrs. Goodall, to inquire if she had received any tidings of her
daughter, who was resident in New Zealand with her husband and two
children, but, as on after consideration I felt it might cause her alarm,.
I altered my intention. This dream or vision made so deep and lasting
an impression that! constantly alluded to it to members of our house-
hold, until circumstances occasioned my calling on Mrs. Goodall about.
the beginning of this month, March, 1885, when I made particular
inquiries for her daughter; and on being assured that she was well,
according to letters by the most recent mail, I ventured to express my
gratifiration, giving,as my reason for such, a. narration of the "vision'~
that had not even then ceased to haunt me; which elicited from Mrs.
Goodall and both of her daughters, who were present, fervent hopes.
that all was well with Mrs. Seymour. On the 12th of March, 1885,.
I again called on Mrs. Goodall, who on receiving me, with much emotion
said, "Oh, have you heard the bad news from Fanny 7 I have thought.
so much of what you told me ; her dear little Dottie has gone. I will
read you her letters," both of which, although coming by different.
mails, had only been received within the past 24 hours. I have
since written to Miss Monkman to ask her what she recollects.
of the incident, and her remarks are also given, with my husband's.
corroboration. That of my servant and nurse could also be obtaIned..
but the latter is very ill in the hospital at present. I should mention
that although I have felt very interested in and thought much of Mrs.
C. R. S. before and since her departure from this country, yet I have
never corresponded with her, but I now learn that she invariably men-
tioned me in her home correspondence, and felt much indebted to me
for some trifling kindness I had been able to show her in the past. I
am able to fix the date of my vision from circumstances which I need
not here relate.
.BESSIE SAUNDERS.
In reply to inquiries, Mrs. Saunders adds :-
In reply to your question, I have had distressing dreams relating to.
death at intervals, and which have not corresponded with reality; but
those you are already cognisant of [viz., this one and 1568] are the
only ones which impressed themselves sufficiently to induce rue to take-
steps to discover if they did. correspond with the reality, although 1
mlloY have mentioned their purport casually at the time.
Digitized by Coog
April, 1885.] JOliNlal of &ciety jar P8'!Jchicql Re8eoreh. 845.
From Mr. Latimer H. Saunders.
March 18th, 1885.1
I clearly remember on or about the lOth of January, 1885, early-
morning, suddenly awaking, and finding my wife leaning forward in bed.
I asked her, "What was the matter 1" She seemed agitated, and replied
to the following effect: "Oh, I have had such a horrid dream! Fanny
Goodall was standing here at my side, quite close, holding out the child
in IJUCh distress, but I could not tell what she wanted; it was so real, I
could have touched her, but you awoke me." Before rising, my wife
repeated tpe incident iIi detail, but as I was absent from home on
anxious businElSS durQJ.g the greater part of January and February, I did
not think of the matter, and the subject was not again mentioned to me,
until late on the 12th March, when Mrs. Saunders told me the" sequel,"
and which was the first intimation I had thereof.
Fortunately, I can safety fix the date as being the morning of either
the 9th, lOth, or 11th of January, as during that month these were,.
owing to circumstances, the only possible occasions on which the incident,
asrelated,could haveoccurred,while my mental impression,independently
arrived at, strongly points to the 10th as the day. I c8.nnot disguise
to my own mind that the evidence against either of the alteJ;Date days.
is purely of a negative nature, and although that in favour of the lOth
is affirmative, I cannot be positive in my selection thereof, as my mind
was preoccupied with anxious business at the time.
LATIMER H. SAUNDERS.
March 20th, 1885.
I remember Saturday moming, the lOth of January last. The·
mistress came into the kitchen to speak about the flue. After doing.
so she told me of such a bad dream she had had of Mrs. Seymour,of
New Zealand, coming to her bedside with her little child in her arms.
Mrs. Seymour was crying so bitterly, and imploring her for help.
E. DAWSON.
The above was taken down from dictation wi~out prompting. and
after being read over and approved, signed by the witness Elizabeth
Dawson, domestic, in the presence of LATIMER H. SAUNDERS.
The governess, Miss E. A. Monkman, in a letter to Mrs. Saunders
(dated 16, Castledine-road, Anerley, 16th March, 1885). of which I
have seen a copy, gives exactly similar testimony as to Mrs. Saunders'
description of her dream at the time. She was not sure of the date,
and fancied it was between January 5th and 8th; but she adds in
another letter, "The only thing I can be quite certain about, is that you
told it me two or three days before you went to Sandown-it might have
been three or four." Mr. Saunders says," Mrs. Saunders went to.
Sandown on the 15th."
Digitized by Google
;:346 JOll1'IIal qf Sociel,l/ for Psychical Research, [April, 1885.
In another letter Miss Monkman says :-
March 21st, 1885. It must have been either 9th or 10th, then, for
I am quite sure it was not on a Sunday that you told me about it•
.sorry that my memory does not serve me better.
Extract from letter received from Mrs~ Seymour by Mrs. Goodall,
dated January 15th, 1885.
I do not know how to write it, mother. Dottie is dead ; a week
:ago this very Thursday evening she was taken ill, and on Saturday at
ten minutes to 10 in the evening, she died. .
When congestion of the lungs set in and the fever came on, for
she had 0. high fever the first day, I had no remedies at hand, and by
the time they came it was too late.
Extract from letter received from Mrs. Seymour by Miss Goodall.
dated January 26th, 1885.
I know you will want to know all about my darling Dot, wh<»
;has now been with God in Heaven for sixteen long days.
Mrs. Goodall says :-
On the 2nd }Iarch, 1885, Mrs. Saunders called on me and in·
-quired if I had heard from my daughter, Mrs. Seymour, living at New
.Zealand. I replied that I had good accounts from her the last time I
l'€ceived a letter from her, a few weeks ago. Mrs. Saunders then said,
, I am so glad, as I have had such a dream about her; it was more like
a vision than a dream; I thought she came to my bedzside and said,
~'Oh, Mrs. Saunders, I am in such trouble, do help me if you can.' "
On the 12th March, on Mrs. Saunders again calling on me, I told
her how much I thought of what she had told me about what she had"
dreamt of my daughter, Mrs. Seymour, being in such great trouble; as
the day before I had received a letter from her telling me of the death
of her dear child, on January lOth, 1885. I had not previously ra-
·eeived any telegram or news of any sort that the little girl was ill.
I may add that after receiving the sad news (but before I had told
Mrs. Saunders), when replying to my daughter I mentioned the
singular fact that l\irs. Saunders had called and expressed her anxiety
ior her welfare, as she had had such a bad dream about her.
March 20th, 1885. FRAXCES GOODALL.
I was l'resent w~en Mrs. Saunders called on ~Iarch 2nd, and ra-
.member the conversation as related above by my mother.
MARY J AXE GOODALL.
Marclt 20th, 1885. ELIZABETII ANNE GOODALL,
[Allowing for longitude, the dream must haye preceded the death by
:a few hours.]
Digitized by Coog
A.priJ,l885.] JOUN/a'i qf Society lOt· P8~kical Re8em·cll. 347
The next case from the same percipient has leBS force, as dreams
of hearses and funerals seem to be tolerably common; and also the
person whose death was the cause of the supposed "ageJ;lt's" distreBS
and excitement was not identified in the dream.
L-1568.-Ae p.
Marcl~ 17th, 1885.
In October, 1878, while residing at St. Helen's, five miles from
:.Ryde, I had a vivid dream as follows:- I saw a hearse and pair of
DOrses drive up to the house, from which alighted a lady, Mrs. B., of
Ryde, who, having knocked at the door, was duly announced by the
.housemaid, who also handed me her visiting-ca.rd. I then saw that
Mrs. B. was in deep mouming.
As this lady was in the habit of using her carriage and pair when
visiting me, it struck me as remarkable that, with the exception of the
'" hearse " and the "deep mouming," the dream was very life-like. I,
"therefore, on awaking repeated it to my husband and thought much of
it throughout the day; indeed, it made so great an impression on me
that, we being in N:ewport that aftemoon, I asked my husband to pass
"the house of Mr. M. (Mrs. B.'s brother) as I should like to be
!re8SSured that the family had sustained no loBS by noticing that the
blinds were not drawn. We did so, but found that the blinds were all
down, so I then asked him to inquire at the house the cause of the
mourning. He then leamt that Mrs. M., the mother of Mrs. B., had
died at Ryde duriDg the night. From subsequent inquiries, I leamt
that Mrs. B. was in attendance.
I knew that Mrs. M. had been ailing, but had no idea she was
seriously ill, or I should certainly have gone to Ree her as she was an
old friend from my childhood and was much attached to me. . And as
far as I know I had not been thinking nor speaking of her or hers for
some time previously.
BESSIE SAUNDERS.
I distinctly recollect the circumstances related above. My wife
informed me of the dream before rising on the moming of the day in
-question, and the :first intimation of the death of Mrs. M. was received
by us when I inquired at her son's house in Newport on the aftemoon
of that day, having first purposely observed the house at the request of
my wife, who mentioned the subject in the train en route to Newport,
and then suggested that we should paBB the house. I readily agreed as
she appeared needleBSly anxious on Mrs. B.'s behalf.
LA.TIME~ H. SAUNDERS.
MareT, 19th, 1885.
Digitized by Google
•
348 JOtwnalof Society for P8ychical Re8earch. [April. 1885.
L.-1569-Ae p. and An Fa
From Mrs. Allibert, 12, Lincoln Street, Sloane Square, London, S.W_
January 2200, 1885.
I will as far as I can, give particula.rs relative to my dream. It-
was in June, 1869, when I was residing in Paris j my son was at the-
Imperial College de Vanves, near Paris. I saw him in my dream with his.
eyes so red and inflamed that I thoughii to apply a bandage over them.
I was much troubled, so much so that it left a great impression all the.
next day on my mind. In the afternoon of that day I received intima-
tion that my son was ill, and went to the college, and found him exactly-
as I had seen him in my dream, but did not remember seeing-
the surroundings in the room. I spoke of it to my family the next.
morning. The only surviving member now is a brother who lesides in
Paris, who well remembers my dream. I will forward your letter to
him, and ask him to write to you. As you asked if this was the
most vivid dream I had had, I must mention one 1 had many years.
before my marriage (I unfortunately cannot give you the date) relative
to a very dear lady- friend I had not seen for several months. I was.
residing in Paris, and I knew her to be in England, but I had not heard
,of her for a long time. I told my family my dream (as I was much im-
pressed by it), that I saw her dressed in a peculiar fur tippet, with
muff, white, with black spots, (I had never seen her with it), and
that she would look in upon us all while at dinner,and to surprilile us the
more,would enter quietly by a back door. It came to pass as I had saidjall
my relations were so startled at the time that for a few momentS they
had not a word for this dear friend,who,in return,was rather surprised,as.
you may imagine-they all so well remembered my statement that I had.
given that day in the morning. E. ALLIBERT.
Mrs. Allibert kindly wrote to her brother for his recollections j and
the following is his reply :-
41, Rue Notre Dame de Lorette, Paris.
January 24th, 1885.
My DEAR SISTER,-In reply to your letter, wherein you allude to
two dreams 011 which you wish to call my attention, I am quite ready
to affirm what took place at the time, and to relate the case, which
has not escaped my memory.
I was then residing at No.: 20, Rue Louis Ie Grand. It was the
year before the war of 1870. Your studio was close at hand under La.
Michodiere, and your son was then at the college of Vanves. You
used then to come in frequently to have your luncheon with us. I
perfectly recollect, so does my wife, your coming in one morning and.
relating to us the dream you had concerning your son.
You had seen him in your dream suffering from bad eyes, and
Digitized by Google
.April, 1885.] Journal qf Society for P81/cliical Re8earck. 349
were under the impression that there was something wrong, and that
.you :would soon hear of some serious illness.
I endeavoured to console you and was more disposed to think
'lightly of the dream, having but little faith in dreams, and persuading
'you to attach no importance to it.
However, the following day a letter from the director of the college
was addressed to you at my house, which I handed to you myself on
.your arrival, and the contents of the letter were as follows :-
" Your son having been taken suddenly ill, you are requested to
have him removed at once from the college." ,
He was consequently under your care for several weeks, laid up with
the scarlet fever.
Your dream turned out to be a reality, and I recollect perfectly
well that it greatly impressed us.
The other case is that relating to an old friend of ours, Madame
Puve, whom we had not seen for a long time' and who frequently
'travelled between France and England.
You related to us one morning that you felt sure we ,would soon
receive the visit of our friend as you had seen her in a dream, and the
most singular incident w8.!l that relating to her garments. She had
round her neck a black' and white fO'Wl"NJlre.
In fact, the very same day, just as we were going to sit down to
dinner, our friend took us by surprise and walked in without being
-expected. She had round her neck the jur ducribed above.
It was very striking and caused us some astonishment. We have
often.thought of it since, a.nd are no longer disposed to laugh at your
..dreams.-I remain yours a.Heetionately, J. RINGER.
Miss Porter, a member of the Society for Psychical Research and
one of our most active and useful helpers, called on Mrs. Allibert, and
:says:-
Her husband was a professor of geology in Paris, and a microscopic
,anatomist.
She came to England on a.ccount of the Franco-German war, her
.husband being already dead, and has remained here ever since, her son
(an only child) having obtained a clerkship in a ba.nk.
She told me that although the two cases she mentions were the
'most striking of her experiences, at one time she was extremely
;susceptible to mysterious (7) influences, and foryea.rs always knew when
.anything unusual was happening, either to her brother (whose corro-
boration I send) or to her son. She has never had a waking
impression.
Her son had never before, nor has ever since, had anything the
matter, with his eyes, her first intimation of such illness having been in
Digitized by Google
350 JOllrnal f!f Societ!f for P8!lchical Research. rAprU,l885_
her dream. She told me that she seems now to have quite lost her-
sensith-eness, not having had an experience of any kind for many years.
(I must except one dream of her brother's illness about five years ago,
which she said was only slight.) She appears to possess some sort of"
mesmeric power, having, she informs me, frequentlycured and put to
sleep friends suffering from severe headache, and still does it occasionally
for her son when he returns home very tirad.-B. P.
Of these two cases the second is the strongest. Mothers may be-
supposed liable to dream of the illness of their children, and the alleged'
exactitude of the cOlTf'.spondence between the appearance of Mrs_
Allibert's son, when she actually saw him, and his aspect in her dream
is not a point that can be pressed.
The following, though it lacks detail, is another case of very clos&.
coincidence, and is of.the sort which is serviceable for the statistical
census of dreams of death for the last dozen years. [It will be remem-
bered that the object of the census is (1) to discover, by inquiry of a.
good many thousands of people, what proportion of the population have,
during the past 12 years, had a markedly distressing dream of the death
of some person known to them; in order (2) to discover whether the
number of cases known to us, where such a dream has corresponded with
the actual death of the person dreamt of, can, or cannot, be accounted
for as due to the natural operation of the law of chances. i may take
this opportunity of saying that 1 am still sadly in want of assistance in.
the collection of answers, and shall be delighted to send a parcel of'
printed forms to anyone who is willing to assist me.-E. G.]
L.-1570.
The Rev. A. B. having communicated to me the fact that since-
January 1st, 1884, he had had an exceptionally vivid dream-which
haunted him for a portion of two days--of the death of an acquaintance,.
and that the dream had corresponded with the fact, the usual questions.
were asked. He replied as follows :-
The Vicarage, --.
lJecemb6'l' 9th, 1884.
DEAR SIR,-In reference to the subject of your note, I am able to
say that 1 had no means of knowing that the lady in questioll:was ailing
or even in delicate health. She was the wife of a cousin from whom or-
of whom 1 do not think I had heard for some months. 1have so much.
to do in my parish that I have little time for correspondence, but in
consequence of whai 1 dreamed I at once wrote to the son of the lady'
Digitized by Google
April, 1885.1 'Jom'nal qf SorietJI for PRlIcltical ReRem'cll, 351
referred to, having previously, on awaking, mentioned the matter to my-
own wife. My remark to her was, "We shall hear some had news, I fear,
from R--" (the residen('e of my cousin), and I then repeated the
dream. Within another post I heard that Mrs. B. had <lied on
that night. .
1 had, some years afterwards, another very troubled dream about the·
same household, but not such as to lead me to think tha~ a death had
taken place. I immediately wrote, and learned that there was a very-
serious anxiety there about a contemplated marriage of an undesirable-
nature, and had reason to know that the dreanl had an important-
influence in averting the step.
I mentioned that in my family I was not the only member who had
these premonitions. A very near relative oy whom, in my early boy--
hood, I was reared, knew for a certainty of the death of her own father,
and subsequently of that of a much·loved niece, and this under-
circumstances which shehad no other means of knowing than by dream
or vision, and did not know until a special messenger arrived to com-·
municate the news. This was in the days when postal communications
in Ireland were both intricate and tedious, and a distance of some 25
miles might occupy a good part of a. week, but of the fact I am able to·
vouch. Many years afterwards, when I was a student in the·
university, the sa:l:e favoured relative wrote to me that she feared I
would hear some bad news of my father, and I did immediately, that
he was dead. There was no Jommunication at the time between her·
and my father's house.
These matters are communicated in confidence for
the Society, for they are not rnucl£ spoken of in the
dear sir, very faithfully yours,
the purposes of:
family.-I am,
A.B.
.Decembe:r 11tIt.
The following is Mrs. B.'s corroboration :-
Mrs. B. has much pleasure in confirming the statement made
by her husband as to his having communicated to her the substance of'
his dream boding something very serious to his cousin's family.
The family lives in Ireland, and the news of the death did not
reach us until two days after, and of the illness we had had no.
intirnatioI•.
L.-1571-Ad pa ort
From Miss L, A. W.
Janua1'1J, 188[,.
In the year 1857, I had a brother in the very centre of the Indian.
Mutiny. I had been ill in the spring, and taken from my lessons in the·
=352 Jo,trnal qf Society/or Psychical Research. [!tpril,l885•
.
.·~chool·room. Consequently I heard more of what was going on from the
newspapers than a. girl of 13 ordinarily would in those days. Wewere in
the habit of hearing regularly from my brother, but in the June a.nd
.July of that yellol" no letters came, and what arrived in August proved to
have been written quite early in the spring, and were full of the dis-
turbances around his station. He was in the service of the East India.
Company-an officer in the 8th Native Infantry. I had always been
-devoted to him, and I grieved and fretted far more than any of my
elderS knew at his danger. I cannot say I dreamt constantly of him,
but when I did the impressions were vivid and abiding.
On one occ~on his personaJ appearance was being discussed, and I
remarked, "He is not like that now, he has no beard nor whiskers,'~
and when asked why I said such a thing I replied, "I knew it, for I
had seen him in my dreams," and this brought a severe reprimand from
my governess, who never allowed" such nonsense" to be talked of.
On the morning of the 25th September, quite early, I awoke from
a dream to find my sister holding me, and much alarmed. I had
screamed out, struggled, crying out, "Is he really dead 7" When I
fu1ly awoke I felt a burning sensation in my head. I could not speak:
for a moment or two j I knew my sister was there, but I neither felt nor
saw her.
Inahout a minute, during which she said my eyes were staring
beyond her, I ceased struggling, cried out, "Harry's dead, they have
shot· him," and fainted.
When I recovered I found my sister had been sent away, and an
aunt who had always (on account of my mother's health) looked after
me, sitting by my bed.
In order to soothe my exciteml'nt she allowed me to tell her my
dream, trying all the time to persuade me to regard it as a natural
consequence of my anxiety. When in the narration I said he was
riding with another officer, and mounted soldiers behind them, she ex-
<lwmed, "My dear, that shows you it is only a dream, for you know
dear Harry is in an infantry, not a cavalry, regiment." !iothing, how-
ever, shook my feelings that I had seen a reality, and she was so much
struck by my persistence, that she privately made notes of the date,
and of the inciden~ even to the minutest details of my dream, and then
for a few days the matter dropped, but 1 felt the truth was coming
nearer and nearer to all. In a short time the news came in the papers-
shot down on the morning of the 25th when on his way to Lucknow. A
few days later came one of his missing letters, telling how his own,
regiment had mutinied, and that he had been transferred to a command
in the 12th Irregular Cavalry, hound to join Havelock's force in the
relief of Lucknow.
Some eight years after the officer who was riding by him when he
Digitized by Google
April,1885.] Jo-urnalof Society for P8l/chical Re8earch. 353
fell, visited us, and when, in compliance, with my aunt's request, he de-
tailed the incidents of that sad hour his narration tallied (even to the-
description of the buildings on their left) with the notes she had taken·.
the morning of my dream.
I should also add that we hQlU'd he had made an alteration in hi&
beard and whiskers just about the time that I had spoken of him as:
wearing them differently.
In answer to inquiries Miss W. says :- JanUQiry 31st, 1885.
As to date, the dream concerning my brother's death took place in.
the morning half of the night of the 25th of September, and I think I
noted in my MS. that an aunt to whom I related the dream at the
time was so struck by the' pertinacity with which I adhered to the
various particulars, that she put down the date and also the details of"
the dream. .
My brother's rank was that of captain. The officer who is men-·
tioned as riding by my brother at the time he was shot, was either'
Oaptain or Major (I forget whether he gained his majority before or'
after the Mutiny) Gmnt, the Spake and Grant man, and he lost a finger'
shortly after he had picked up my brother's sword.
. I have alwaY8 been a dreamer. My mother says that as a baby and
very young child I was unlike any of her other 13 children; that.
I often lay with my eyes open, pointing at nothing she could see, and
smiling. And as I grew old enough to talk, the nurses told her I wa,s.·
always talking aloud in my sleep. I never had the same sort of dream.
of death.
L.-1512-A8 PI
From Miss L. A. W.
JanUQ(l'y, 1885.
When I was about 19 and 20, I was in very indifferent health;
and yet, as my father remarked, no one seemed' to know ",,hat was
the matter with me. The doctors said I had studied too much at
school, and that this was the reaction. My mother thought I was too-
much at my books and writing, and I was ordered tonics, horse exercise,
and to go out visiting whenever I was asked. All this time only one
of my sisters knew that I had disturbed nights, and dreams so peculiar'
that I hesitated sometimes to tell them even to her; but in a private
note-book I lrad put down from time to time dates of certain dreams,
and more particularly notes of the appearance and conduct of the-
individual who literally haunted my w(loking and sleeping hours.
It would take too long were I to give the whole of myexperience&
I will, as briefly as I can, give an epitome of them.
Digitized by Google
354 Journal of Society for. P8'!Jchical Research. [April, 1885.
The dreams commenced in March one year, and continued, at
fu,tervals, till the June in the next. Sometimes I went a week with-
out one of these peculiar visitations; sometimes they came night after
night; and on one occasion I was nearly four months free from them.
I could neither attribute them to anyone particular course of study,
nor to indigestion, nor to any special diet, for I tried change in every
way for my own comfort's sake. I was not in love, nor indeed had I
been ; and certainly no feeling but that of a mysterious repugnance (and
at the same time all inability to avoid or escape from the influence of the
person of whom I dreamt) actuated me. He was someone I had never
in all my life wittingly seen, though I had reason to think afterwards
that he had seen me at a Birmingham musicaJ. festival. On that
occasion I had apparently fainted, and it was attribu~d to the heat
and the excitement of the music. I hardly knew if it were or not. I
only knt'w I felt all my pulses stop, and a burning and singing in my
head, and that I was perfectly conscious of those around me, but unable
to speak and tell them so. To return to my dreams. I always knew
as I slept when the influence was coming over me, and often in my
dream I commenced it by thinking, "Here it is, or here he comes
again." They were not always disagreeable dreams in themselves, but
the fascination was always dreadful to me, and a kind of struggle
between two natures within me seemed to drag my powers of mind and
body two ways. I used to awake as cold as a stone in the hottest nights,
my head having the queer feeling of a hot iron pressing somewhere in
its inside. I would shiver and my teeth chatt.er with a terror which
seemed unreasonable, for there was, even in the subjects of my dreams,
aeldom anything wicked or terrifying. .AB to any idea of love between
me and this mysterious·stranger, there never was any approach to it
in my impressions. There was an interval when a gentleman was
paying me some little at1;en~on. in my day life, that the irrita.bility of
my tormentor seemed in my dreams to be extreme. I can remember
some of them perfectly; .and I have notes of others, but they can, I
~, be scarcely needed.
Su1Iice .it to say that I became so thin and so nervous· that bad
nights were suspected, and I 1lJ1.derwent a course of sed...tives and
opiates,. which ipduced or rather compelled sleep, and when under this
treatment I found a ~culty in dreaming, an inability to follow dim
visions of dreams, a stupor upon my senses, and after some three or four
1llonths I was pronounced well; and it certainly proved true that
all exciting circumsiiances had passed from my sleep. In the early
D,lOlJ.ths of the next year but one, I wen~ with a sister to visit in Liver-
pool, where we had much gaiety, and were out nearly every. night. I
CI!oU truly say I had forgotten for the time my dreams of. a. year and
a-half ago, not that they ever ceased to be mys~eriQus, and perfectly.
Digitized by Google
April, 1885.] Journal ofSocietylor Psgchical Research. ' 355
-vivid when I thought of them, but I never did ,this if I could help it.
One night we went with our friends to a large private ball The rooms
-for dancing were two, curtains of lace being half across the opening
between them, and these were looped back against pillars. - I had en-
joyed two or three good da.nces, and was sitting out one, by the lady'of
the house, when, not Btuldenly,but by degrees, I felt myself turning cold
and stony, and the peculiar burning in my head. If I could have
spoken I would have said," My dreams 1my dreams 1" but I only
;shivered, which attracted the notice of my companion, who exclaimed,
" You are ill, my dear. Come for some wine, or hot coffee." I rose,
knowing what I was going to see, and as I turned, I looked straight into
the eyes of the fac-simile of the being who had been present to my
:sleeping thoughts for so long, and the next instant he stepped forward
-from the pillar against which he was leaning behind the lace curtain
.and shook hands with my companion. He accompanied us to the re-
ireshment room, attended to my wants, and was introduced to me. I
.declined dancing, but could not avoid conversation. His first remark
was, "We are not strangers to each other. Where have we met 7," I
fear I shall scarcely be believed when I say, that (setting my teeth and
-nerving myself to meet what I felt would conquer me, if I once sub-
iilitted in even the slightest degree) I answered that I never remem-
beredmeeting him before, and to all his questionings returned the most
reserved answers. He seemed much annoyed and puzzled, but on that
()ccasion did not mention dreams. I took an opportunity of asking my
.sister if she remembered my description of the man of my dreams, and
upon her answering" Yes," asked her to look round the rooms and ,see
if anyone there resembled him, and half-an-hour later she came up,
.saying, "There is the man, he has even the mole on the )eft side of his
mouth."
We made inquiries cautiously as to who the gentleman was, and
:heard that he came from -the United States, had letters of recom-
mendation to some of the first families in Liverpool society, was sup-
posed to be half English, half German, very peculiar in his notions,
very studious, very fascinating when he chose to be so. I met him at
.almost every party I went to, and it seemed a matter of course that he
.mould sit and converse with me when he could get the opportunity.
He was sometimes so gloomy and fierce at my determined avoidance of
.any but the most ordinapr conversation, that I felt quite a terror of
meeting him. He frequently asked if I believed in dreams; if I could
Yelate any to him ; if I had never seen him before; and would say, after
my persistent avoidance of the subject, "I can do nothQlg, so long as
:you will not trwt me." ,
Our friends thought there was a flirtation going on, but on neither
side was there anything approaching it. I found, however, that 'his
Digitized by Google
356 Journal 0/ Society for P81lcAicai ResearcA. [April, 1885.
repeated questions became more and more difficult to parry, that his.
conversations were deeply interesting, though I always felt a dread of
what they might lead me into, and I wrote home, saying, I found my
nerves were not standing well the gaiety and late hours. and asked to.
be recalled on some home pretext. I did not even tell my sister what..
I had done, but the very day the letter went I met Mr. -- at a
concert, and he said, "You have written to be sent for home," and
then spoke most bitterly of what we had both lost throughmy obstinacy
and want of faith; and a great deal more, which made my brain reel at.
the pictures he painted. I have never met him again; but seven years.
ago I had a short return of dreaming of him, but it only lasted three
months, and everything was always indistinct and as if through a.
mist.
I have heard of him, or of some one of the same name, once or
twice as lecturing in different places, but my friends left Liverpool, and
whether he has or has not been in England lately I cannot say. No
one can tell how much strength was taken out of me by the continual
struggle of.will which I maintained through those ever-memorable three
weeks in LiverpooL I used to feel bruised and shaken all over when
I had met him-the tension of my nerves seemed to react upon my
senses of feeling and touch, and now, when I think of it, I can only
wonder at the physical, moral and mental struggle which seemed to.
possess me through what were indeed hard battles to fight.
Some hav~ said to me, "Oh I why did you not tell him you had
dreamt of him, and see what he would say 1" My answer was and is,
that I felt always that as I completely lost my own will and my own
identity in those dreams, so should I have given myself up to do his.
will had I given way in our personal interviews, and either acknow-
ledged or accepted his power.
. In answer to inquiries, Miss W. says :-
It would take me more time than I can spare just now to examine.
weed out, and note down any details from my c'Dream Note-Book,"
or entries from my diaries, which I should choose to send, to be made
public.
At that time, I had never been in Italy, nor Switzerland, though
I had always longed to go, and one Bst of drsams I have down, describing
how in the first place the companion of my dreams .suggested showing
me the world, how we seemed to .fly through space-no wingB, but
passing through crowds of people unseen, just a few feet from the
ground, hearing and seeing everything, floating through rooms invisible
to all. I have several pagesof this set of dreams; they were enthralling,
but there was always the feeling-andl have it noted down-that I was
flOe a free agent, that I could not help m.yself, that I had to go,
Digitized by Google
April, 1885. Journal of Societ!lfor P&.lIchical R~8earch. 357
'8Jld that all this would end in my being the slave, the agent, the
-victim of my mysterious guide.
When conversing with him in the flesh, he asked me if I had "ever
-travelled." I said" No." He showed surprise, and began to dilate on
"the wonders of such and such a place or scene, all of which I felt sure
I had seen with him, and entered in my note-book. It was deeply in-
teresting, and t was totally absorbed in his recitals, time after time,
when he abruptly stopped saying, .. But have you never had scenes such
"8.S these before youT' and I replied," Yes, in my dreams I have."
Such, or similar remarks, I know I have noted down, and his eager-
ness to make me admit similar experiences was at tiJpes almost. fierce.
r had a great longing at times to tell him everything, but au innate
-sense that by so doing I should be as completely his slave, and tool as
r had been in dreams, always stopped me.
My sister has no hesitation in saying she remembers all the circum-
stances of those years, my dreams, and their frequency, many of
"which I recounted to her; also the description of the man as tallying
"withthe reality weboth met.
I have not now mentioned the matter to. her, as none of my home
people know I am writing on this subject to you, but it is not a year
~go since we were talking of the matter to some friends.
You are right in your conjecture that he inferred he had seen me in
-dreams. He often:talked as if I were perfectly aware that I knew it, but
that I would not go beyond a certain limit in admitting anything. He
-frequently talked of electro-biology, second sight, and similar subjects
leading to these. Now, as to your last remark. "Names"! I am quite
sure it would be highly distasteful to my family to have my name pub-
1ished in reference to these dreams. I should not like it, but were I alone
"r would have consented to it, were there any good to be derived from it,
and I can understand that cases of this kind furnish more aid if names
and addresses can be given.
The next case seems also to be a " reciprocal" one, though we do
not learn whether the impressions which suggested to each of the parties
the other's presence were always simultaneous. The narrator is a
.clergyman in Yorkshire; he desires his name not to be published.
L.-1573-AD pn
January, 1885.
The following experience took place nearly 25 years ago, but there
is no doubt of its correctness in every detail. I became acquainted
with a young lady in London, who, I may say without vanity, fell
'Violently in love with me. There was a strange fascination about her
which attracted me to her, but although very young, I was far from
Digitized by Google
358 JourlUJl 0/Society/or P8ychical Baearch. [April, 1885~
reciprocating her affection. By degrees I discovered that she had the-
power of influencing me when I was away from her, making me seem
to realise her presence about me when. I knew that she was some-
distance away; and then that she was able, when I saw her, to tell me-
where I had been and what I had been doing at certain times. At.
tint I thought that this was merely the result of accident-that.
some one had seen me and reported to her-until one day she told me,
that at a certain hour of the day I had been in a drawing-room, which
she described, when I knew there had been no chance of collusion, and
that no one could have told her of my visit to the house.
She then told me that when she began intently to fix her mind on
me, she seemed to be able to see me and all my surroundings. At first.
she fancied it was only imagination, until she saw by my manner that
what she described had really taken place. I had several opportunities.
afterwards of testing this power, and found she was correct in every
instance.
I need scarcely say that when I had satisfied myself of this I kept
out of the way of such a dangerous acquaintance. We did not meet
for about 10 years, and had drilied so widely apart as to lose sight
of each other. One day I was walking with my wife on the West Clift",
at Ramsgate, when a strange feeling of oppression came over me, and
I was compelled to sit down. A few minutes afterwards myoId
acquaintance stood before me, introducing me to her husband and
asking to be introduced to my wife.
We met several times while they sta.yed at Ramsgate, and I learned
that she had been married for some years, and had several children;
but I ha.ve seen nothing of them since, and have no wish, even if I had
the opportunity, of renewing the acquaintance. No reference whatever-
was made to the past, and I did not learn whether she had still the-
strange power she formerly possessed.
L.-1574.-AI po
From the Rev. W. E. Dutton, Lothersdale Rectory, Cononley, Leeds.
January 30th, 1885.
I am not quite clear as to the exact date, but about the middle of
June, in the year 1863, I was walking up the High Street of Hudders-
field, in broad daylight, when I saw approaching me, at a distance of a.
few yards, a dear friend who I had every reason to believe was lying:
dangerously ill at his home, in Staffordshire. A few da.ys before, I had
heard this from his friends. As the figure drew nearer, I had every
opportunity of observing it; and, although it flashed across my mind
that his recovery had been sudden, I never thought of doubting that it.
Digitized by Google
.April, 1885,] "Journal oj SOC/'6tglor P81JchicalRe8e..arck.. 359
was really my friend. As we met, he looked nito my eyes with a sael
longing expression, and, to my astonishment, never appeared to notice
my outstretched hand, or respond to my greeting, but quiet1y passed on.
I was so taken by surprise as to be unable to speak or move for a few
seconds, and could never be quite certain whether there waS
uttered by him any audible sound, but a clear impression
was left on "my .mind, "I have wanted to see you so much,
and you would not come." Recovering from my astonishment, I
turned to look after the retreating figure, but it was gone~
My first impulse was to go to the station and wire a message; my next.
which was acted upon, was to start oft'immediately to see whether my
friend was really alive or dead, scarcely doubting that the la.tter was
the case. When I arrived next day I found him living, but in a state
of semi-consciousness. He had been repeatedly asking for me, his mind
apparently dwelling on the thought that I would not come to see him.
As far as I could make out, at the time I saw him on the previous day
he was apparently sleeping. He told me !I1terwards that he fancied he
saw me, but had no clear idea how or where. I have no means of
accounting for the apparition, which was that of my friend clothed, and
not as he must have been at the time. My mind was at the moment
fully occupied with other matters, and I was not thinking of him. ".
T may add that he rallied afterwards, and lived for 8everal months.
At the time of his death I was far from bome, but there was no repeti-
tion of the mysterious experience.
W. E. DUTTON.
February 3rd, 1885.
DEAR Sm,-In answer to your question I have never had, so far as
I can remember, any other experience of the nature described in my
narrative} and·do not think I am a subject for such impressions. This
makes the solitary experience all tha more mysterious to me.-Yours
faithfully, W. E. DUTTON.
The following is a well-a.ttested specimen of a collective hallucination.
L.-1575
From the Rev. W. Raymond, Ballyheigne, Co. Kerry.
Decemb6'l' 18th, 1884.
About 30 years ago Miss Mildred Nash, my mother's aunt, died in
my mother's house, at the advanced age of 82 years. She had been
blind for some years, and all orphan cousin of mine had been much in
attendance on her, My aunt lived and died in a room on the ground
Hoor in the front of our house, which was situa.ted in" a retired street
of Tralee. A few days after her death my cousin and I were sitting, on
• Digitized by Google
..
360 Journal of Societylor P'1lchical ReB«lrck. [April, 1885.
a. summer evening, at the window of the room over the room in which
my aunt had died. I hp..&rd distinctly the words "Rosy, Rosy" (my
cousin's name) apparently from the room beneath,and in my aunt's voice;
then I heard my cousin answer to the call, she also heard the voice. I,
struck with the strangeness of the circumstance, -at once threw up the
window to see if it were a voice from the street, but there was no one
visible, and there could be no one there without being seen. I then
searched the house all around, but there was nobody near except our-
selves-my cousin and myself. The tale ends.there; nothing afterwards
. happened in connection i-merely the unaccountable fact that two
persons did independently hear such a voice as I have mentioned. I
heard both the name called, and the answer.
WK. RAYMOND.
Rector of Ballyheigne.
January 9tlt, 1885.
I send you, as soon as I was able to get it, enclosed statement in
1lorroboration sent me by my cousin. She mentioned an item that
helped to fix the facts in her memory (and which, shows the super-
stition of the people here) that her neighbours all said she should
not have answered, but, as she says, no harm came of it. This was my
only experience of auditory hallucination. W. RAYMOND.
Tralee, January 8th, 1885.
My cousin, Rev. William Raymond, has asked me if I remember
about the voice we heard at the time of the death of old Miss Nash, his
aunt. I do remember that a few days after her death he and I
were sitting, one summer evening, in the room ,over the room where she
died, that I heard my name called, apparently from that room and in
her voice, and that I answered the call, and that we searched and
~ould find no one about who could have spoken.
, ROBE RAYlIlOND.
In answer to inquiries, Mrs. Raymond states that this is her sole
experience of an auditory hallucination.
L.-1576-Ad pn
From Mrs. Harnett (great aunt to Miss Porter, who vouches for the
accuracy of the account).
Hollybank, Kenley, Surrey,
DecemiJer, 1884.
Having been requested to write down the particulars of an event
which occurred in the lives of my parents, I do so.
In 1820, my father and mother, both being under 50 years of age.
DigitizedbyGoogle '
,April,188/S.] Journal ojSocielyfor P~chical Ruearc'~. 361
and in perfect health, were staying in Liverpool (their residence being
at Whitehaven, in Oumberland), names, Joseph and Ann Mondel.
One night, the latter, sleeping peacefully, was awoke by the former
ealling out :-
" Ann, I feel sure Anthony Mathers is dead."
" What makes you think so 7"
" He has just been at the bedside, and la.id an icy-cold hand on my
cheek."
"You must have been dreaming."
" Oh, but my cheek is still cold."
The old and much-esteemed friend was, at the time, sojourning in
one of the West Indian islands. The season was known to be more than
usually sickly, so the thought of his danger might have engendered
morbid feelings. My father, as well as my mother, was content to res10
in that hope during the weeks that must elapse ere the news of that
night's occurrences inJamaica could reach England. News did arrive, and
stated that on the night referred to Mr. Mathers succumbed to a sudden
and.. most severe attack of yellow or other West Indian fever.
As a child, I first heard the tale, but often in my presence was it
repeated or referred to, later in life, without any change or amplifica.-
tion of detail. JANET HARNETT.
L.-1577-At pn
From Mrs. Bettany, 2, Ecking.;on Villas, Ashbourne Grove,
Dulwich.
NOve'mher, 1884.
When I was a child I had many remarkable experiences of a
psychical nature, which I remember to have looked upon as ordinary
and natural a.t the time.
On one occasion (I am unable to fix the date, but I must have
been about 10 years old) I was walking in a country lane at A., the
place where my parents then resided. I was reading geometry as I
walked along, a subject little likely to produce fancies or morbid
phenomena of any kind, when in a moment, I saw a bedroom known
as the White Room in my home, and upon the lloor lay my mother, to
all appearance dead. The vision must have remained some minutes,
during which time my real surroundings appeared to pale and die out;
hut as the vision faded, actual surroundings came back, at first dimly,
and then clearly.
I could not doubt that what I had seen was real, so, instead of
going home, I went at once to the house of our medical man and found
him at home. He at once set out with me for my home, on the way
Digitized by Google
362 Journal of Society.lor P81Jchical Re8parck. [April, 1885.
putting questions I could not answer, as my mother was to all appear-
ance well when I left home.
I led the doctor straight to the White Room, where we found my
mother actually lying as in my vision. This was true even to minute
details. She had been seized suddenly by an attack at the heart, and..
would soon have breathed her last but for the doctor's timely advent.
I shall get my father and mother to read this and sign it.
JEANIB GWYNNB-BBTTANY.
We certify that the above is correct.
In answer to inquiries, Mrs. Bettany says :-
S. G. GWYNNE,
J. W. GYWNNB.
(1) I was in no anxiety about my mother at the time I saw the
vision I described. She was in her usual health when I left her.
(2) Something a little similar had once occurred to my mother. She
bad been out riding alone, and the horse brought her to our door bang-
ing half off his back, in a faint. This was a long time before, and she-
ll:ever rode again. Heart disease had set in. She was not in thB habit
of fainting unless an attack of the heart was upon her. Between ihe-
attacks she looked and acted as if in health.
(3) The occasion I described was, I believe, the only one on which
I saw a scene transported apparently into the actual field of vision, to
the exclusion of objects and surroundings actually present.
I have had other visions in which I have soon events happening as
they really were,in another place, but I have been also conscious of r,al
surroundings.
In answer to further inquiries, she adds:-
(1) No one could tell whether my vision preceded the fact or not.
My mother was supposed to be out. No one knewanythiD:g of my
mother's being ill, till I took 'the doctor and my father, whom I had
encountered at the door, to the room where we found my mother as I
had seen her in my vision.
(2) The doctor is dead. He has no living relation. No one in
A. knew anything of these circumstances.
(3) The Whiw Room in which I saw my mother, and afterwards
actually found her, was out of use. It was unlikely she should be
there.
She was found lying in the attitude in which I had seen her. I
found a ha.ndkerchief with a lace border beside heron the floor.
This I had distinctly noticed in my vision. There were.other particulars.
of coincidence which I cannot put here.
Mrs. Bettany's father ha.s given the following fuller account :-
I distinctly remember being surprised by seeing my daughter in
Digitized by Coog
April, 1885.] Jout'fJal ofSociety jor P81/chical Ruearqn. .363.
.company with the family doctor outside the door of my residence; and
I asked " Who is ill ¥" She replied, "Mamma." She led the way at.
once to the " White Room," where we found my wife lying in a swoon
on the lI.oor. It was when I a'3ked when she had been taken ill, that I
found it must have been after my daughter had left the house. Non&.
of the servants in the house knew anything of the sudden illness, which
our doctor assured me would have been fatal had he not arrived when.
he did.
My wife was quite well when I left her in the morning.
S. G. GWYNNB.
L.-1678-Ad pn
From the Rev. John Mathwin, Vicar of West Pelton, Co. Durham.
_ D6C6mher 19th, 1884.
Forty years ago, or thereabouts, when I was a~ut 20 years of'
age, a lady friend of mine, a distant relative by marriage--age between.
40 and 50-had for some time been in a delicate state of health, though.
.not confined to the house. We frequently had quiet conversation&.
together on religious matters. Neither of us was of an excitable turn
of mind. The invalid herself waa happy, and I felt .a calm and
comforting conviction of the truth of Christianity. As well as I can.
now recollect I last saw my friend alive about a fortnight before
her death. She did not seem at that time to be worse than usual, and
apparently might have lived at any ra.te for a few years. However, one·
night when I was in bed-say about 4 o'clock in the morning-I
had what I may call a vision. A figure appeared before me neatly
draped, and a certain brightness about it seemed to awake me. I at..
once felt conscious that someone was near me who wished to make
a communication to me. I soon recognised the face of my invalid.
friend. She seemed to wish to give me time to collect myself-
evidently intimating that there was no cause why I should be afraid~
As a matter of fact I had no fear at all. My then feelings may perhapb.
be best described as partaking both of wonder (or expectation) and
pleasure. When, apparently, the figure had convinced herself that I
recognised her, and that I had satisfied myself that I was under no
delusion, she seemed to beckon me cheeringly with one or two fingers.
of her right hand, and to say to me, "It's all right; come on." She-
then vanished, and I neither saw nor heard anything more.
Though there was no injunction given to me not to tell what I had
seen, I yet felt that the communication was of too solemn a nature to
allow me at once to talk of it openly. But I said to my brother at..
breakfast about 8 o'clock that morning that I had dreamt in the night.
that Mrs. So-and-so was dead, and it turned out, as we heard abouiA.
Digitized by Google
.364 Jourtllli Qf Societyfor P8ychical Ruearck. [April, 188.').
10 o'clock, that our friend had died during the night. For some years
I never mentioned this experience to anyone, but afterwards I felt
no hesitation in talking about it to intimate friends.
In answer to inquiries Mr. Mathwin says:-
February 17t1&, 1885.
To my brother I spoke of what I call the vision as if it had been So
.cJream, but this was because I did not wish to draw his attention very
specially to it, although I felt constrained to mention it to him in BOme
way.
He tells me now that he has no recollection of my having spoken
to him about it, as I did at breakfast on the morning of the death, but
before we knew of the death having taken place. I am not, however,
surprised that my brother should not now recollect the remark I made
to him at that time.
'Myown strong impresaion all along has been, and still is, that I was
-communicated with by the spirit of the departed. I, therefore, infer
that in reference to that special communication I was to all intents and
purposes awake. I never had any similar experience before, neither
have I had since..1 had no reason to expect any communication of the
.kind at any time.
JOHN MATHWIN.
The following is a rather strong specimen of a weak class. It is
-an account of a very unusual depression of spirits, followed by a vivid
dream. The latter may easily be accounted for as following naturally
on the former. The emotional depression, which coincided in time with
·the death of a near relative, may, of course, have been accidenta.1; but
it seems to have been a unique experience in the life of a person of
-strong menta.1 and physical health, which is in favour of the telepathic
'explanation.
L.-1579-Ad pn
From a doctor, who does not wish his name to be published. He is
personally known to me, and a man of much intelligence.-E.G.
Dunoon, March 7t1&, 1885.
'When a boy, about 14 years of age, I was in school in Edinburgh.
'my home being in the West of Scotland.
A thoughtless boy, free from all care or anxiety, in the "Eleven"
<>f my school, and popular with my companions, I had nothing to worry
"Or annoy me. I boarded with two old ladies, now both dead.
One afternoon-on the day previous to a most important cricket
match in which I was to take part-I was overwhelmed with a most.
'Wlusual sense of depression and melancholy. I shunned my friends and
Digitized by Google
, ,
April, 1885.] Jou1'nal of Soc;et.1I for P81lcMcal Research. 365-
got "c~ffed " for my most unusual dulness and sulkiness. I felt
utterly miserable, and even to this day I have a most vivid recollection
of my misery that afternoon.
I knew that my father suffered from a most dangerous disease in
-the stomach-a gastric ulcer-and that 'he was always more or less
in danger, but I knew that he was in his usual bad health, and that
nothing exceptional ailed him.
That same night I had a dream. I was engaged in the cricket match~
I saw a telegram being brought to me while batting, and it told me,
that my father was dying, and telling me to come home at once. I told
the ladies with whom I boarded what my dream had been, and told
them how real the impression was. I went to the ground and was.,
engaged in the game, batting, and making a score. I saw a telegram
being brought out, read it, and fainted. I at once left for home, and
found my father had just died when I reached the house. The ulcer in
the stomach had suddenly burst about 4 o'clock on the pnnious day,
and it was about that hour that I had experienced the most unusual
depression I have described. The sensations I had on that afternoon
have left a most clear and distinct impression on my mind, and now,
after the lapse of 15 years, I well remember my miserable feelings.
J.D.,M.D.
In reply to inquiries, Dr. D. says :-
I most certainly never had a similar experience of depression, or-
such a vivid dream as the one I tried in my letter to explain. Both
the depression and the dream were quite exceptional, and have left a.
most clear impression on my memory.
I fear I cannot name any individual schoolfellow who noticed my
most unwonted silence and quietness on that afternoon, but I distinctly
remembeJ."'their chaffing me for not joining as usual in the afternoon's
practice.-J. D.
The following is a similar case :-
1580-Ad po
From Mrs. Bull, Mossley Vicarage, Congleton.
January 3rd, 1885.
On the evening of January 28th, 1863, I had met several old
friends at dinner at a friend's house near Manchester, in which neigh-
bourhood I had been paying Y~its. Myreturn home to my father's
house was fixed for the next afternoon. I ought to say that between
~t father and me, his first-born child, a more than common bond of
affection and sympathy existed, arising from circumstances I need not
mention, and I was looking forward to my return with earnest longing.
The evening had been bright and happy, surrounded by friends I
Digitized by Google
:366 Journal ofSociety for Psycltical Re&earch. [April, 1885.
valued. When I was about to leave, my hostess pressed me to play
for her a. very favourite old march. I declined, on account of the la~
ness of the hour, and keeping horses standing. She said, "It is not
yet 12, and I have sent the carriage away for a quarter of an hour."
I sat down laughing, and before I played many bars, such an indescrib-
able feeling came over me, intense sadness heralded a. complete
break down, and I was led away from the piano in hysterics. By 10
<>'clock the next morning I got atelegram, to ,s8oy my father had gone
to bed in his usual health, and at a quarter to 12 the night before
.had passed aw80Y in an epileptic fit, having previously said to my sister
how glad he was to think of seeing me so soon, and when she bid him
.good night, praying God to give them both a quiet night and sleep.-
Yours, much intertsted in your research,
A. M. BULL.
In reply to inquiries, Mrs. Bull says :-
Since reading your letter last night I have carefully gone over the
guests of that dinner party, and find them all go~e but one, Frank
Ashton, Esq., The Laurels, Twickenham, and he is too ill to read or
-to answer a letter. At the time I speak of, I was the widow of the
Rev. J. Lowthian, vicar of Wharton, and the daughter of the Rev.
.John Jackson, vicar of Over. I never experienced a similar feeling. I
am not at all naturally i..c.clined to depression, and am perfectly fr~
from what is commonly understood by superstition.
L.-1581.-Ad Pn
From Miss Martyn, Long Melford Rectory, Suffolk.
Septem1Jer 4th 1884.
On March 16th, 1884, I was sitting alone in the drawing-room,
reading an interesting book, and feeling perfectly; well, when suddenly
I experienced an undefined feeling of dread and horror ; I looked at the
clock and s80w it was just 7 p.m. I was utterly unable to read so I
got up, and walked about the room trying to throw off the feeling, but
I could not; I became quite cold, and had a firm presentiment that I
WIl.S dying. This feeling lasted about half-an-hour, and then passed off,.
leaving me a. good deal shaken all the evening; I went to bed feeling
very weak, as if I had been seriously ilL
The next morning I received a telegram tel1ing me of the death of a.
near and very dear cousin, Mrs. K., in Shropshire, with whom I had
been most intimately associated all my life, but for the last two years
had seen very little of her. I did not associate this feeling of death
with her or with anyone else, but I had a most distinct impression that
DiciL bye o·
April, 1885.} JOlwnal Qf Society/or Psychical Besem·ch. 367
:something terrible was happening. This feeling came over me, I
.afterwards found. just'at the time when my cousin died (7 p.m.). The
(lonnection with her death may have been simply an a.ecident. I have
.never experienced anything of the sort before. I was not aware that
Mrs. K. was ill, and her death was peculiarly sad and sudden.
K. M.
Mr. White Oooper, through whose kindness we obtained this
;account, in answer to a request of E.G.'s writes as follows :-
19, Berkeley Square.
Apri17t4, 1885.
I have asked Miss Martyn whether she had told anyone about het
·feeling of horror on March 16th. bifore she heard of the death of her
cousin. She told me she had. She was quite convinced, and perfectly
remembered telling Miss Mason the same enning, after Miss Mason
had COme from church, that she had had a peculia.r feeling of horror
·and dread for which she could give no account. I then questioned
.Miss Mason and enclose what she dictated.
Miss Mason says :-
The Rectory. Long Melford. Suffolk.
April 5th, 1885.
I well remember Miss Martyn telling me that a feeling of horror
,and an indescribable dread came over her on Sunday evening, March
16th, 1884. while we were in church, and she was alone in the drawing-
room. That she was unable to shake it off and felt very restless, and
got up and walked about the room. She did not refer to anyone, and
·could give no caUI\e for this peculiar feeling. I am under the im-
pression that she told me the SjLD1e evening (Sunday) and before she
heard of the death of her consin, but I am not certain whether it was
-on Sunday or Monday that she told me about it.
AnA. M. MASoN.
It:;- We must remind our readers that the· narratives above given
have not been finally selected by the Literary Committee for
pUblication; they are merely printed for the consideration of
those Members of the Society who may be interested in this
department of investigation.
Digitized by Google
368 Journal QISociefylor P3'/Ichical RaearcA. [April, 1885.
DR. TAGUET'S PATIENT AT BORDEAUX.
To the Editor 0/ the "JOUBNAL OJ' TUB SOCIBTY FOB PsYCBICAL RBsBABCH.' ..
Sm,-In an article in Part vn. of the Pf'OCUdit&g8 of the Society for
Paychical Research (p. 219) reference is made to an observation of M. Taguet-
on a patient under his care in the .Arile del .AlUtu!e&, in Bordeaux, by name-
Nodlie X., which is recorded in the .Anflalea Mid~u, 1884,
p. 325. She is about 24 years of age, and has been treated as insane
for lOme time, but her symptoms are variable, and every noW' and
then in an nccAB she has shown lOme remarkable capacities, and among them
what is termed by M. Taguet a "hypeneetheaia of Bight.It She will sit at
such times facing a dull, blank wall with her eyes shut and her eyeballs
apparently upturned in the fashion that often obtains in hysterical, mesmeric
and other neurotic states; and in this condition, according to M. Taguet'.
description, can read apparently on the blank wall or on a sheet of blank
cardboard held in front of her face the print, both small and large, of a
newspaper held up behind the back of her head, which one could only expect
her to see if the blank wall or cardboard were a mirror, or if her eyes were
in the back ofher head. "Now, Dr. Taguet," says Mr.F.W. H. Myers, in the-
above-mentioned article, "does not attempt to explain this, further than by
calling it hypeneathesia of vision. But he can hardly mean that she really
saw the worda reflected in tbe cardboard. Perhaps the only other IOlution
which suggested itself to him was that she saw the worda clairvoyantly, and
this solution he did not like to adopt. And there is, in fact, no reason, as
~e facta are reported, for aaauming clairvoyance. Thought-tranaference
would amply suffice to explain the phenomena.II Of course, to render an
explanation by thought-transference poaaible, it must first be ascertained
that the worda read by Noelie were previously known to lOme one present.
Whether this was 80 or not is not mentioned in M. Taguet's article. I wrote-
to him, and he very kindly sent me a reprint of his article, but I could learn.
nothing further on this particular point. I ventured to propose a visit, but..
unfortunately when I reached the Arile du .AliiMllI I found he was not
in Bordeaux for that day. His aaa istant moat courteously introduced me to
the patient, NOlflie X., with whom I talked a little. She was in fairly good
health and good spirita, and her symptoms of mental derangement quite in
abeyance. Thore was no sign of the abnormal capacities peculiar to the-
accU, and no attempt at an experiment was therefore made. M. Taguet'.
aaaistant had been present on some previous occasions when the "hyperma-
thesia of sight" had been noticed, and did not seem confident of any
explanation. I believe I may say that I made the thought-reading hypothesis>
intelligible to him, but he_
was able at once to aaaure me that no one in the
room could have been aware what were the words in the newspaper that was
presented to tbe back of Noelio's head until they were looked at to confirm
NoeIie's reading; so that, in fact, he negatived the necesaary foundation for-
a theory of thought-transference. I do not think such a theory had
occurred to the experimenters, and I am not sure that their attention had
been closely giyen to the point in question. I wrote again later to M.
Taguet, asking him to remark it in any future experimenta.-I am yours.
faithfully, '
A. T. MYBBS, M.D.
Digitized by Google
