{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1james_s_nde_4247.html","mytitle":"James S NDE 4247","mylang":"de"}
          	        James S NDE 4247  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					James S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2077 James S NDE 4247  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					We had a party for a friend.  It was about 2am. As I do not drink much, I tend to keep an eye on everyone to ensure the night goes without incident and all have fun.  A friend's mother who had a bit too much to drink exited out the front door into the garden so I went out to check if she was okay. I found her on her knees in front of my car so I bent down to lift her by her arms.

Just as I took her weight, everything switched off and I was in total darkness. Then my life memories including ones I knew nothing about flashed through my brain, then it all faded slowly away into total darkness again. The next thing I knew I was standing on what seemed like terracotta sand. Even though all around me was total darkness, I knew I was in a large circular cavern or hall of sorts that had arched doorways, again in darkness, and above me was water with gentle ripples flowing across it. The water was about twenty feet above me and through it; I could see what I took at the time to be a bright moon that was acting as a type of spotlight upon me. I had no pain or discomfort of any kind and my thinking and senses were normal. I felt warm, very comfortable, and very emotional with an overwhelming feeling of love and happiness. I remember clearly thinking at the time that if I could get up through the water I would be home and would get myself a large dark rum and a cigarette.

Then I heard people behind me talking to me. It was my mum and a few other relatives asking me to go with them through one of the arched doorways but I refused to turn and go with them. I was still fixated on finding a way through the water. Next, I was in front of a large arched door that had pillars at both sides and masses of carving everywhere. There were another two doors similar to this one. I went through the door without it opening and was somewhere that was just brilliant white, nothing else. I was talking to someone even though no one was there, and we just walked for what seemed a very long time in this whiteness. Everything was explained to me. I had to go back, which I can assure you I was quite pleased about. Well, at that time I was. Then I was back in the cavern with my mum and relatives and I was saying goodbye. I shot up towards the light and I was again lying on my back, in the driveway. My niece was blowing in my mouth. She heard the last sentence I spoke to my mum. I got up feeling groggy but managed to walk into the house and sit down.

I film all my parties with a hidden camera just for fun and the camera showed that about seventeen minutes passed during the time when everyone rushed out to see what had happened and I walked back in, so I assume I was dead for at least ten minutes. According to witnesses, I had no pulse and was not breathing. I was later diagnosed with heart disease. Before all this, I had suffered a stroke and suffered mini-strokes. This is just one of many such incidents I have had.

The last one was early this morning; I awoke with pains in the chest so got out of bed and sat downstairs. I started feeling that I was going to vomit and pee myself so I made my way to the bathroom. By now, the pains had increased and I had them up my neck and down my arms as well as the chest and back. I started trying to pee while leaning on the system in front of me in darkness. Then what looked like the sun started rising to the left of me.  All the shampoo bottles were reflecting this amber light.  Then it reached my hand and arm, and then all of me.  At this point, all the pain left me.  I felt the same warm emotional feeling I had when dead on my driveway and I thought this is it. No doubt, I will be found in the morning, but at least I made it through Christmas. Then it dawned on me I do not have a window to my left, only a brick wall as the only window was in front of me. It was still dark outside. I turned my head to the left as the glow faded. I was left in the dark cold bathroom but feeling fantastic so I went back to bed and slept for about seven hours, which is something I have not done in years as it's normally about two hours. Now as I write this the pain has not returned and I feel good.

This is a sample of my life.  My big problem is that I am not allowed to die.  I have had several experiences including OBEs due to illness.  I have suffered stroke, heart and chest disease, and Parkinson's disease.  Now it seems I have prostate cancer.  By all rights, I should have been dead a long time ago. 

There is a lot more to passing over and it is real. One thing I can tell you is that I took nothing bad with me. I couldn't do wrong or evil under any circumstances when I was there. Although what I saw over there seems solid, it's not.  It's just energy.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  2002

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  IllnessHeart attack    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   No

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At all times

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     It was a like large hall or cavern

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     At one point, it was my mum and other relatives. Some I had never met and there was one person whom I have no recollection.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was above me shining through water.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       There are no words that can describe the overwhelming love and emotions I was feeling.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I learned quite a bit about illness as a child and an out of body experience that I had no memory about.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   none

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal   none

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I don't want to talk about it.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I need more than my wife can give. I feel alone, rejected.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Yes, it's just indescribable

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, but I don't want to talk about it

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    With my wife

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I experienced NDE several times but this was the first I knew of actual death.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I never thought about it apart from feeling cheated and empty.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I feel cheated. I suppose I feel the same as a drug user who can't get his drugs. Once I have been there, I crave the emotions I felt.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1james_s_nde_4247.html