{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1james_r_nde.html","mytitle":"James R NDE 400","mylang":"de"}
          	        James R NDE 400  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					James R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1300 James R NDE 400  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					After following my older cousin into the pool the air was knocked out of me, I couldn't swim and I took in water. Vividly remember watching myself bobbing in the middle of the (3D) pool as Craig fished me out. I was separate from my body standing at my head as they performed 1960's style resuscitation. Two dark bodies were having an argument about my presence. Yes, no, maybe. There was something important I had to do.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  summer 1961

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    learned I didn't float  Clinical death   I was swimming and followed an older cousin off the high diving board.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Total.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     This is uncertain, the time was so distorted twenty minutes felt like two.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Just the discussion of the two (aliens, inter-dimensional) beings and the sounds of the crisis, 'He has no pulse, he is dead...etc.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     They said nothing to me directly until I decided that maybe there was something to what they were saying about having something important to finish.

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Zero.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Sorry it is not time yet - Vancouver Island will crack off and slip into the pacific the same time as California goes.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Awareness of pregnant women one hundred percent accuracy on sex and stillborn. Empathic to a strong degree strong psi on presence of animals, people.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   See above.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     They were so immature at the time - I am truly a round peg that fits into square holes for a short time. Father was a Presbyterian minister not my cup of tea. I have explored the spiritual realms.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     See above.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Some were lost some understood some had the same dreams mostly when I described their past lives and their lives past. I have described some futures and they were surprised when prophesy fulfilled.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Speed at the time of end of LSD, peyote, pot at various times and incarnations.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1james_r_nde.html