{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1james_p_ndelike.html","mytitle":"James P NDE-Like 20664","mylang":"de"}
          	        James P NDE-Like 20664  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					James P NDE-Like  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE-Like  						556  James P NDE-Like  20664  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

After the surgery for a traumatic brain injury, the doctors put me into a coma for a couple weeks to help give my body time to heal.  During this time, I thought I woke up to see the person in the bed to my right die.  After I recovered, and started to ask questions about his death, and the doctors and nurses insisted that I could not possibly have remembered this.  It seems as though I was standing beside my bed looking over top of myself towards the person in the next bed down from me.  The nurses all of a sudden came to his bed in a hurry.  The first one there tried frantically to recover him, but it didn't work.  Many other nurses surrounded his bed and did a lot of stuff to him as well, but he died.


When this happened, I can remember seeing some sort of fog, or cloud come directly up from his body and leave the room.  I knew right at that time he had died, because of what it felt like.  I could not hear any sounds during this event, but I can still remember all of the feelings.  The nurses had a distraught anxious feeling during this time.  The older nurse seemed to be consoling the other nurses, by that I mean she seemed to give the other nurses the idea that this happens in the intensive care unit, but we are here to save the ones we can.  This event has changed my life.  I think it taught me how to FEEL more than I ever had before. 

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    August/2000

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' After an accident, I ended up with severe Traumatic Brain Injury. I had to undergo Brain surgery to repair some damaged areas.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was over the top of my body looking down.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was in a coma.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    There were no sounds. Only feelings.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     The hospital staff, and the man who died.

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I could only see what happened, and feel the emotions in the room.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Mostly confusion, but then there was sorrow for the other man.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Only by seeing the cloud of fog leaving his body. I'm guessing that this was a spirit of a person going to wherever it was supposed to.

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I believe now, without a doubt, there is something after death.  I just don't know where, or what it is.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   It's hard to believe that I can remember anything during a coma.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     It seems that I have the ability to know what other people want, or are feeling now.  I have not experimented with it though.  I just let life go on as it should.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part was to have the proof of the after events of death.  The worst part of the experience was that someone had died.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Mostly the few people I share this with seem to doubt me.  Probably because they know how bad of shape I was in at the time. I, however, know what is real and what is not.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1james_p_ndelike.html