{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1james_m_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"James M Probable NDE 373","mylang":"de"}
          	        James M Probable NDE 373  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					James M Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						1354 James M Probable NDE 373  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Heart attack occurred in emergency ward of a general hospital as I was being approached by the resident cardiologist. I was unconscious for about four hours. Upon awakening, I found myself in bed in what turned out to be in coronary intensive care ward. I was hooked up to several electrode connections and two medication pumps. I observed several doctors and nurses at the foot of the bed with my wife seated in a corner of the room. I concluded I was in serious condition and made a conscious decision that if I was to die, I would go peacefully without resistance.

I immediately sensed a warm comfortable feeling of euphoria and all the pressure on my chest disappeared. I observed the wall of the room across from me begin to take on the appearance of fieldstone with soft colors of blue, brown, rose, yellow and move. There were mortar lines separating the various stones. After the wall had taken shape, a tunnel portal (similar to those on a railway) started to form in the center. I noted the floor just inside the tunnel entrance begin to open in a zigzag pattern allowing a very, very bright white light to emanate through the floor. I felt compelled to enter the tunnel and I then floated towards the entrance. About midway between the bed and the tunnel, I noted my wife (a registered nurse) seated in the corner of the room and made a conscious decision to say, 'Good-bye Mary'. She responded with an angry, 'Don't you dare die, you have too much to live for.'

She later confirmed she heard my 'Good-bye', which prompted her response. I then forcibly resisted going any farther and I was suddenly back in the bed with all the associated discomfort and apprehension. I remained in intensive care for twenty-one days. After about one year of rehabilitation, I felt fine and resumed a very active and full life.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  15 January 1990

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack    Clinical death   Heart attack.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       See main narrative.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I saw a very beautiful fieldstone wall with a variety of soft and warm colors.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, warmth and euphoria.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   See main narrative.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Non attending Anglican

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Lost all fear of death - I significantly and surprisingly outlived the doctor's most optimistic estimate of my survival. Although I still feel well, I was recently diagnosed with a large clot in the apex of my heart and my prognosis is poor.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best part was being relieved of discomfort and apprehension. I had no adverse emotions as a result of the experience.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Resident clergy in the hospital confirmed hearing numerous stories of a similar nature. Friends and associates appear interested and do not question or express doubt when I describe the events as they occurred. One close friend (now deceased) was a radio technician who had suffered a non-fatal heart attack and who also had a NDE which he likened the tunnel and light to the failure of a picture tube of a television set when the power was disconnected.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1james_m_probable_nde.html