{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1james_m_nde_3305.html","mytitle":"James M NDE 3305","mylang":"de"}
          	        James M NDE 3305  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					James M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1141  James M NDE  3305  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

My Uncle Carl (who had just returned from the Korean War) was living with us and offered to take us children swimming at Percy Quinn State Park, Pike County, Mississippi. I was just learning to swim and we were at a beach on the west side of the lake. My brother Mike (two years younger than me) could not swim and he stepped in a hole under the water. He started yelling for help and I was close by and did not realize there was a hole. I went to him and as I approached, I stepped in the hole. Mike had panicked and as I went down, he climbed on top of me. I tried to fight him off but he was pushing me down and I could not get free. At first, I saw the bubbles float before my eyes that must have been wide open. Shortly, I realized that I was going to die. With that thought and acceptance, everything changed: all the pain of coughing water went away, and I was floating up to a light that seemed to be pulling me; then I seemed to turn and I could see the beach where we had been swimming. There were people there and one was sitting down and I realized it was me; I was pulled back toward my body but it was like I was but a wisp of smoke drawn to my physical body. As I approached my body, I turned to slide into the body and the pain came back.

Uncle Carl had pulled us both from the water and I don't think he did anything to revive us other than a slap on the back to expel water. He told us to not tell our parents for fear that they would be angry with him. I never talked about the experience with brother Mike and we tried to forget the incident.

I did not think of or talk about the experience and did not know of anything like near death experiences until there was a book published on the subject.

And I did not experience a tunnel or other people (deceased) so wasn't sure if I had a true NDE.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    1954

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No   Accident    Other Drowning.  Drowning.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      My mind seemed to be racing to the point that I knew I was going to die.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Time seemed to stand still and I was watching.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     I did not feel confined to a tunnel but was being drawn to a light.

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No     At his point in my life, I had not had any close person deceased.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Peace and no pain.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   11 Years Old

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      No

What is your religion now?      Moderate   Non Practicing Catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Uncertain

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No   But I did not talk to anyone about it at the time.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       I do not have a fear of death.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    My brother and I never talked about what happened. Years later, 1980's, my wife was reading a book on NDE and related part of a story to me. I said that is similar to what happened to me as a child and I related the story to her. My story was a bit different in that there was no tunnel and no people.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definately not real      My uncle told us to not tell our parents what had happened and we didn't and never talked about it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     I look back with the eyes of an adult and not an eleven year old child.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1james_m_nde_3305.html