{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1james_h_nde.html","mytitle":"James H NDE 3213","mylang":"de"}
          	        James H NDE 3213  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					James H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1214 James H NDE 3213  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

My car plunged over an eighty feet cliff at 10:00 pm in February with temperatures well below freezing. Not sure how long I was trapped in the car, but after freeing myself, I began a six mile walk to get help. I had suffered a broken neck, back, separated both shoulders, punctured my stomach and spleen, and lost an ear. During the entire walk for help, I did not once feel that I would not make it. I just kept walking and climbing, driven to survive. I reached a farm house at 7:00 am the next morning and an ambulance was soon there.

Once in the ambulance and the emergency medical technician began to work on me, I just stopped breathing. I felt no desire nor need to breathe. I could see and hear the emergency medical technician telling me to breath but I could not, nor did I want to, answer. I then just closed my eyes for a second and I was gone. I had never felt so alive and complete. There was no pain or discomfort. I was totally at peace. My spirit or energy was floating through what looked like a heavy snow fall. Large flakes or bits of light were gentle falling around me. I was floating towards a very warm soft light. I possessed the certain knowledge that once I reached the light I would be whole or complete - that this was the only place I belonged. Just as I reached the light, I encountered a force or an energy that repelled me away. At that instance, I opened my eyes and felt the emergency medical technician force a plastic tube down my throat, forcing me to breathe. I did not come back willingly or by choice. 

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    02/19/1982

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death .  Severe trauma due to auto accident and exposure.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Through the entire event.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Through the entire event.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Had no concept of up, down, or directions, floating free of gravitation.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    It was more of an awareness of the surroundings, not like normal vision.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    No sound at all.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Very gentle warm light, much like the light from a fireplace as seen through a cabin window from the outside.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     was floating in descinding bit of light like snow flakes

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Total bliss - peace everything that is wonderful.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   none really

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      No

What is your religion now?      Liberal   same

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Knew that I belonged here, that this was very right and in order with the universe.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       I learned that you need not fear death. That you should not live your life being scare of death.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Was in a drug induced coma in intensive care unit for several days and did not recall experience until several weeks later - not much reaction one way or another.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    Yes   At the age of five or six I had a high fever of 104 degrees for several days. I was placed in tub of ice water.  Then placed in blankets with hot water bottles. This was at home on the ranch. I lost consciousness and went to what I called the valley of the dead. Saw many dead relatives and others. They were climbing this gentle mountain. Not working hard just steady and with little effort. There was a stream and I would sit and talk with them. They always told me to tell their loved ones not to worry or grieve anymore for them, that they were just fine. I never told anyone of this. Throughout my life anytime, I would get a high fever I would return and see recently dead people. I saw and talked to my dad, grandfather, many aunts and uncles. This experience was totally different from the auto crash.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     There was no doubt that it was real, I still felt the same certainty of the knowledge that I possessed during the event.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     Nothing has changed, still feel the certainty.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1james_h_nde.html