{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1james_g_nde.html","mytitle":"James G NDE 164","mylang":"de"}
          	        James G NDE 164  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					James G NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1445 James G NDE 164  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in a coma, gangrene right leg, heart failure, lungs -- pulmonary edema.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  December 17 l998

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    Clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  No pain, total peace and a glow around my body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Total.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There is no time as we know it in the afterlife.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear people speaking buzzing sounds just like when you are awake but others cannot hear or see you.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     When I went into the valley or tunnel until the light appearing.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I spoke with the Lady who met me her name was Kathy she was a lady who had died years ago. She was a customer on my paper route when I was a teenager. I was told by her to wait that HE was coming to meet me that I would be back one day.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Light was total Love, Peace and the Power from it was awesome and unexplainable, the power of millions of atomic explosions would not even come close to the power.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Stood in the entrance way of the Kingdom.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Total peace and love.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Total review of my entire life from day one to me being taken to Emory It was like a stage play I could watch but not stop any part of it. It made me appreciate life, it's precious, and a beautiful gift, enjoy it.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was told my time was not now, this made me sad to leave this beautiful Kingdom. I was cast back into darkness into earthly light and slammed into my body.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Life is a beautiful gift enjoy it while it lasts. I always did but even more now I believe in God Jesus and the life everlasting. Why I was chosen to experience this I have finally found out.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Seeing the Kingdom and having to comeback.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    As usual people tend to be skeptical, the human nature comes in. It changed my life forever I am not afraid of death I welcome it when my time really comes. Humans cannot fathom what is really around them. Too much to experience too little time to do it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Even if it was not the afterlife, or the brain just preparing to die, do not be afraid it's the easiest most beautiful thing you're ever going to do.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1james_g_nde.html